Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Groups consolidated financial statements A summary of the Groups principal accounting policies, all of which have been applied consistently throughout the year and preceding year, is set out below: a Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs for the first time.
The disclosures required by IFRS 1 concerning the transition from UK GAAP to IFRSs are given on pages 85 to 86.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulations.
The consolidated financial information has been prepared under the historical cost convention except for derivatives which are measured at fair value.
b Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial information includes the results, cash flows and assets and liabilities of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc the Company and its subsidiaries together, the Group.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
The results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
c Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and will not be included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
d Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes.
Sales of goods are normally recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed.
e Long-term contracts Where the outcome of a long-term contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured by the proportion that contract costs incurred for work performed to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, except where this would not be representative of the stage of completion.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that they have been agreed with the customer.
Where the outcome of a long-term contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs incurred that it is probable will be recoverable.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
f Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the local currency at the actual exchange rates at the date of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in the income statement.
70 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Groups consolidated financial statements continued f Foreign currency continued The trading results and cash flows of overseas undertakings are translated into sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, using the average rates of exchange during the relevant financial period.
The balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling at the rates ruling at the year-end.
Exchange differences arising from the re-translation of the opening balance sheets and results are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments on the acquisition of foreign entities are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
The Group has elected to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs as sterling denominated assets and liabilities.
g Government grants Government grants are recognised in the profit and loss account so as to match them with the expenditure towards which they are intended to contribute, to the extent that the conditions for receipt have been met and there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received.
h Retirement benefit costs The Group provides pensions to its employees and Directors through defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
The schemes are funded and their assets are held independently of the Group by trustees.
For defined benefit retirement schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
The actuarial gains and losses are recognised outside the income statement and presented in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
In accordance with IAS 19 actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the statement of recognised income and expense.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
i Research and development Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Any internally generated intangible asset arising from development activities is recognised only if an asset is created that can be identified, it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefit and the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Internally generated assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives.
Where no internally-generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
j Other intangible assets Costs associated with producing or maintaining computer software programmes for sale are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs that are directly associated with the development of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, that will generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year and that can be measured reliably, are recognised as intangible assets.
Capitalised software development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is provided on a straight-line basis over their useful lives.
Patents and trademarks are stated initially at historical cost.
Patents and trademarks have definite useful lives and are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Intangible assets arising from a business combination whose fair value can be reliably measured are separated from goodwill and amortised on a straight line basis over their remaining useful lives.
k Impairment At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 71 Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Groups consolidated financial statements continued k Impairment continued Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing the value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
l Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are shown at original historical cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life as follows: Freehold buildings 40 to 50 years Short leasehold improvements over remaining period of lease Plant and machinery 3 to 20 years Freehold land is not depreciated.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
m Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Operating lease rentals are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
n Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost determined on a first-in, first-out basis and including an appropriate proportion of overheads incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition and net realisable value.
Provision is made for any obsolete, slow moving or defective items.
o Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in-hand, call deposits and bank overdrafts, where there is right of set off.
Bank overdrafts are presented as current liabilities to the extent that there is no right of offset with cash balances.
p Share-based payments The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share based payment.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
The Group issues equity settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of an option pricing model.
q Provisions Provision is made for the anticipated cost of repair and rectification of products under warranty, based on known exposures and historical occurrences.
Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been communicated to affected parties.
72 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Groups consolidated financial statements continued r Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and deferred tax.
The current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities.
s Derivative financial instruments As permitted by IFRS 1 paragraph 36a, Ultra has elected to apply IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement prospectively from 1 January 2005.
As a result, the relevant comparative information for the year ended 31 December 2004 does not reflect the impact of these standards and is accounted for in accordance with UK GAAP.
Ultra uses derivative financial instruments, principally forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps, to reduce its exposure to exchange rate and interest rate movements.
Ultra does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
Under UK GAAP, such derivative contracts are not recognised as assets and liabilities on the balance sheet and gains or losses arising on them are not recognised until the hedge item is itself recognised in the financial statements.
From 1 January 2005 onwards, derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and liabilities measured at their fair values at the balance sheet date.
Changes in their fair values are recognised in the income statement and this is likely to cause volatility in situations where the carrying value of the hedged item is not adjusted to reflect fair value changes arising from the hedged risk.
Provided the conditions specified by IAS 39 are met, hedge accounting may be used to mitigate this income statement volatility.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Hedge accounting will not generally be applied to transactional hedging relationships, such as hedges of forecast or committed transactions.
However, hedge accounting will be applied to translational hedging relationships where it is permissible under IAS 39.
When hedge accounting is used, the relevant hedging relationships will be classified as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or net investment hedges.
Where the hedging relationship is classified as a fair value hedge, the carrying amount of the hedged asset or liability will be adjusted by the increase or decrease in its fair value attributable to the hedged risk and the resulting gain or loss will be recognised in the income statement where, to the extent that the hedge is effective, it will be offset by the change in the fair value of the hedging instrument.
Where the hedging relationship is classified as a cash flow hedge or as a net investment hedge, to the extent that the hedge is effective, changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument will be recognised directly in equity rather than in the income statement.
Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
For cash flow hedges of forecasted future transactions, when the hedged item is recognised in the financial statements, the accumulated gains and losses recognised in equity will be either recycled to the income statement or, if the hedged items results in a non-financial asset, will be recognised as adjustments to its initial carrying amount.
