Principal group companies and non-current investments Unilever Group as at 31 December 2005 The companies listed below and on page 168 are those which, in the Principal group companies opinion of the Directors, principally affect the amount of profit and % Europe Ownership assets shown in the Unilever Group accounts.
The Directors consider that those companies not listed are not significant in relation to Austria Unilever as a whole.
Unilever Austria GmbH d Full information as required by Articles 379 and 414 of Book 2 of the Belgium Civil Code in the Netherlands has been led by Unilever N. V. with the Unilever Belgium BVBA SPRL Unibel d Commercial Registry in Rotterdam.
France Particulars of PLC group companies and other significant holdings Amora Maille Socit Industrielle S. A.
S d as required by the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 will be Cogesal-Miko S. A.
S d annexed to the next Annual Return of Unilever PLC.
S d Unless otherwise indicated, the companies are incorporated and principally operate in the countries under which they are shown.
Germany Maizena  The aggregate percentage of equity capital directly or indirectly held by GmbH & Co. OHG d NV or PLC is shown in the margin, except where it is 100%.
All these Pfanni GmbH & Co. OHG Stavenhagen d percentages are rounded down to the nearest whole number.
Pfanni Werke  The percentage of Unilevers shareholdings held either directly or GmbH & Co. OHG d indirectly by NV and PLC are identied in the tables according to the PW Vermietungs GmbH & Co. KG d following code: UBG Vermietungs GmbH & Co. OHG d Unilever Deutschland GmbH d NV 100% a Unilever Deutschland Holding GmbH d PLC 100% b Unilever Deutschland Immobilien Leasing NV 73%: PLC 27% c GmbH & Co. OHG d NV 90%: PLC 10% d Wizona IPR GmbH & Co. OHG d NV 19%: PLC 81% e Wizona Vermgensverwaltugs GmbH & Co. NV 57%: PLC 43% f OHG d Greece Due to the inclusion of certain partnerships in the consolidated 67 Elais-Unilever S. A. a group accounts of Unilever, para 264 b of the German trade Unilever Hellas A. E. B. E. a law grants an exemption from the duty to prepare individual statutory financial statements and management reports in Italy accordance with the requirements for limited liability companies Unilever Italia SrL d and to have these audited.
The Netherlands Mixhold B. V. d a Unilever N. V. Unilever Nederland B. V. d Poland 99 Unilever Polska S. A. d Spain Unilever Espaa S. A. a Unilever Foods Espaa S. A. a Sweden Unilever Sverige a Switzerland Unilever Raw Materials AG a Unilever Schweiz GmbH d United Kingdom Lever Faberg Ltd. e Unilever Bestfoods UK Ltd. e Unilever Ice Cream & Frozen Food Ltd. e a Unilever PLC Unilever UK Holdings Ltd. b Unilever UK & CN Holdings Ltd. e a See Basis of consolidation in note 1 on page 82 In addition, we have operations in the following countries: Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Hungary, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia and Ukraine.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 167 Financial Statements
