Financial review continued In 2005, pension liabilities less plan assets amounted to Appropriate access to equity and debt capital: 5 581 million 2004: 5 454 million.
sufficient exibility for tactical acquisitions: A1 P1 short-term credit rating: In November 2001, NV entered into a forward purchase contract sufficient resilience against economic turmoil: and with a counterparty bank to buy 10 000 000 PLC shares at 559p Optimal weighted average cost of capital, given the constraints per share in November 2006 to meet the obligation to employees above.
Depending on the market value of this forward purchase contract, a cash collateral must be placed Unilever aims to concentrate cash in the parent and finance with the counterparty bank at a minimum of 8 million.
At companies in order to ensure maximum exibility in meeting 31 December 2005, 16 million of collateral had been placed changing business needs.
Operating subsidiaries are nanced with the counterparty.
through the mix of retained earnings, third-party borrowings and loans from parent and group nancing companies that is most Off-balance sheet arrangements appropriate to the particular country and business concerned.
IFRSs interpretation SIC 12 and US GAAP FIN 46R require that Unilever maintains access to global debt markets through an entities with which we have relationships are considered for infrastructure of short-term debt programmes principally US consolidation in the consolidated accounts based on relative domestic and euro commercial paper programmes and long-term sharing of economic risks and rewards rather than based solely debt programmes principally a US Shelf registration and on share ownership and voting rights.
We periodically review our euromarket Debt Issuance Programme.
Debt in the international contractual arrangements with potential special purpose entities markets is, in general, issued in the name of NV, PLC or Unilever SPEs or variable interest entities VIEs as dened by SIC 12 and Capital Corporation.
NV and PLC will normally guarantee such FIN 46R respectively.
The most recent review has concluded that debt where they are not the issuer.
there are no significant SPE or VIE relationships which are not already appropriately reected in the accounts.
Information Treasury concerning guarantees given by the Group is stated in note 27 Unilever Treasurys role is to ensure that appropriate nancing is on page 127. available for all value-creating investments.
Additionally, Treasury delivers financial services to allow operating companies to Cash ow manage their financial transactions and exposures in an efficient, Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2005 were at a similar timely and low-cost manner.
Net cash ow from operating activities, at 4 353 million, was 1 194 million lower than in the previous Unilever Treasury operates as a service centre and is governed by year.
This includes the effects of additional marketing investment, policies and plans approved by the Boards.
In addition to policies, a lower inow from working capital compared with last year, and guidelines and exposure limits, a system of authorities and higher cash costs of restructuring, pensions and tax.
extensive independent reporting covers all major areas of activity.
Reviews are undertaken by the Net cash ow from investing activities was 635 million higher corporate internal audit function.
than last year, reecting higher disposal receipts including 623 million from the sale of UCI and net movements in The key financial instruments used by Unilever are shortand investments with maturity greater than three months.
Net cash long-term borrowings, cash and cash equivalents and certain ow used in nancing activities fell by 1 117 million, reecting straightforward derivative instruments, principally comprising borrowing activity offset by increased purchases of own shares.
interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts.
The accounting for derivative instruments is discussed in note 1 on Share buy-back page 83.
The use of leveraged instruments is not permitted.
In 2005 we completed a share buy-back program of 500 million.
This was in addition to the purchase of 776 million of shares to Other relevant disclosures are given in note 2 on pages 86 to 87, partially replenish treasury stock used for the conversion of the and notes 17, 18 and 19 on pages 105 to 113.
Unilever Treasury manages a variety of market risks, including the Finance and liquidity effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and Unilever aims to be in the top third of a reference group of 21 liquidity.
Further details of the management of these risks are international consumer goods companies for Total Shareholder given in note 2 on pages 86 and 87.
Return, as explained on page 25.
The Groups financial strategy supports this objective and provides the financial exibility to meet its strategic and day-to-day needs.
The key elements of the financial strategy are: 24 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005
