Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group 1 Accounting information and policies Unilever and liabilities are translated at annual average rates of exchange.
The The two parent companies, NV and PLC, together with their group balance sheet, other than the ordinary share capital of NV and PLC, is companies, operate as a single economic entity the Unilever Group, translated at year-end rates of exchange.
In the case of hyperalso referred to as Unilever or the Group.
NV and PLC have the same inationary economies, which are those in which ination exceeds Directors and are linked by a series of agreements, including an 100% cumulatively over a three-year period, the accounts are Equalisation Agreement, which are designed so that the position of adjusted to reect current price levels and remove the inuences of the shareholders of both companies is as nearly as possible the same ination before being translated.
as if they held shares in a single company.
The ordinary share capital of NV and PLC is translated at the rate The Equalisation Agreement provides that both companies adopt the contained in the Equalisation Agreement of 1 Fl.
12 equivalent to same accounting principles and requires as a general rule the 5.445.
The difference between the resulting value for PLC and the dividends and other rights and benets including rights on value derived by applying the year-end rate of exchange is taken to liquidation attaching to each Fl.
12 5.445 nominal of ordinary share other reserves see note 25 on page 125. capital of NV to be equal in value at the relevant rate of exchange to the dividends and other rights and benets attaching to each 1 The effects of exchange rate changes during the year on net assets nominal of ordinary share capital of PLC, as if each such unit of at the beginning of the year are recorded as a movement in capital formed part of the ordinary capital of one and the same shareholders equity, as is the difference between profit of the year company.
For additional information please refer to Corporate retained at average rates of exchange and at year-end rates of governance on page 41. exchange.
For these purposes net assets include loans between group companies and related foreign exchange contracts, if any, for which Basis of consolidation settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable Due to the operational and contractual arrangements referred to future.
Exchange gains losses on hedges of net assets are also above, NV and PLC form a single reporting entity for the purposes of recorded as a movement in equity.
Accordingly, the accounts of Unilever are presented by both NV and PLC as their respective Cumulative exchange differences arising since the transition date of consolidated accounts.
Group companies included in the consolidation 1 January 2004 are reported as a separate component of other are those companies controlled by NV or PLC.
The net assets and reserves see note 25 on page 125.
In the event of disposal of an results of acquired businesses are included in the consolidated interest in a subsidiary either through sale or as a result of a accounts from their respective dates of acquisition.
repayment of capital, the cumulative exchange difference is recognised in the income statement as part of the profit or loss on Companies legislation and accounting standards disposal of group companies.
The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Goodwill EU, including interpretations from the International Financial Goodwill being the difference between the fair value of consideration Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC and the Standing paid for new interests in group companies, joint ventures and Interpretations Committee SIC, and with Book 2 of the Civil Code in associates and the fair value of the Groups share of their net the Netherlands and the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985. identiable assets and contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition is capitalised.
Goodwill is not amortised, but is subject to an annual The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention as review for impairment or more frequently if necessary.
Any modied by the revaluation of biological assets, financial assets impairment is charged to the income statement as it arises.
classied as available-for-sale investments and at fair value through profit or loss, and derivatives.
Intangible assets On acquisition of group companies, Unilever recognises any Material variations from United States generally accepted accounting specically identiable intangible assets separately from goodwill, principles US GAAP are set out on pages 157 to 161. initially measuring the intangible assets at fair value.
Separately purchased intangible assets are initially measured at cost.
Finite-lived OECD Guidelines intangible assets including software are amortised in the income In preparing its Annual Review and Annual Report and Accounts statement over the period of their expected useful lives.
Periods in Unilever adheres to disclosure recommendations of the OECD excess of five years are used only where the Directors are satisfied that Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
the life of these assets will clearly exceed that period.
indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortised, but are subject to review for Foreign currencies impairment as described above for goodwill.
Items included in the financial statements of group companies are measured using the currency of the primary economic IFRSs also require that internally generated intangible assets be environment in which each entity operates its functional currency.
capitalised where certain specic criteria are met.
Unilever capitalises The consolidated financial statements are presented in euros.
internally generated software where it is clear that the software development is technically feasible and will be completed and that the Exchange differences arising in the accounts of individual companies software will generate economic benets in the future.
are dealt with in their respective income statements.
Those arising on trading transactions are taken to operating profit: those arising on Unilever also monitors the level of development costs which may only cash, financial assets and borrowings are classied as finance income be capitalised once the ow of economic benets is assured.
Unilever this is evident only shortly before a product is launched into the market.
The level of costs incurred after these criteria have been In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the income met is currently insignicant.
statement, the cash ow statement and all other movements in assets 82 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005
