Financial review Basis of reporting and discussion Critical accounting policies Our accounting policies are based on International Financial Unilever complies with IAS 1, which requires that the most Reporting Standards IFRSs and UK and Netherlands law.
These appropriate accounting policies are selected in all circumstances.
differ in certain respects from United States GAAP.
The principal The accounts comply in all material respects with IFRS and UK and differences are described on pages 158 to 161.
We have shown Netherlands law.
To prepare these accounts, we are required to reconciliations to net income and equity under US GAAP on make estimates and assumptions, using judgement based on page 157. available information, including historical experience.
These estimates and assumptions are reasonable and are re-evaluated on International Financial Reporting Standards an ongoing basis.
However, actual amounts and results could Unilever has adopted International Financial Reporting Standards differ.
Critical accounting policies are those which are most IFRSs as adopted by the EU with effect from 1 January 2005, important to the portrayal of Unilevers financial position and with a transition date of 1 January 2004.
Unilever has applied the results of operations.
Some of these policies require difficult, exemption in IFRS 1 relating to business combinations, as subjective or complex judgements from management, the most explained in note 35 on page 144.
IAS 32 and IAS 39 in respect important being: of financial instruments and IFRS 5 in respect of non-current assets and asset groups held for sale have been applied with Goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and effect from 1 January 2005. equipment Impairment reviews in respect of goodwill and indefinite-lived The most significant impacts of the transition to IFRS on Unilevers intangible assets are performed at least annually.
More regular restated consolidated financial statements relate to the timing of reviews, and impairment reviews in respect of other assets, are the recognition of items in the income statement.
Reported net performed if events indicate that this is necessary.
Examples of assets are impacted as a result of these timing changes, but there such triggering events would include a significant planned is no impact on the underlying cash ows generated by Unilever.
restructuring, a major change in market conditions or technology, expectations of future operating losses, or negative cash ows.
The key changes in our accounting policies as a result of our adoption of IFRSs are described in note 35 on pages 144 and Impairment reviews are performed following the guidance in 145.
These changes, unless otherwise stated, have been applied IAS 36.
Such reviews are performed by comparing the carrying retrospectively in arriving at the opening balance sheet under value of the asset concerned to that assets recoverable amount IFRSs as at 1 January 2004. being the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
Value in use is a valuation derived from discounted future cash Reconciliations of our equity as at the transition date and ows.
significant assumptions, such as long-term growth rates 31 December 2004 and the profit for the year then ended are and discount rates, are made in preparing these forecast cash given in note 35 on pages 146 to 151.
For further details of these ows: although these are believed to be appropriate, changes in and other changes in Unilevers reporting please refer to our these assumptions could change the outcomes of the impairment website at www.
Turnover denition The most significant balances of goodwill and intangible assets Until 31 December 2004, promotional couponing and trade relate to the global savoury and dressings product group.
We have communication costs were included in the cost of advertising and reviewed the carrying value of this cash generating unit by promotions.
From 1 January 2005, these costs are deducted from considering expected future cash ows based on actual and turnover and treated as part of the price element in the variance planned growth rates and margins for this product group.
No analysis of sales growth, together with other trade promotion impairment loss has been identied.
costs which are already deducted from turnover.
Comparatives have been restated to reect this change.
We have reviewed the carrying value of the Slim Fast business in light of the continued decline in the weight management market The effect of this change in presentation is a reclassication from segment throughout 2005.
Over the last few years, consumer advertising and promotions expenditure to a deduction from tastes in this group have changed frequently, featuring lowturnover for the year ended 31 December 2004 amounting to calorie, low-carbohydrate, low-salt, low-sugar and other products.
This change in accounting policy does not have The business declined in 2005 but maintained leadership of the any impact on operating profit or net profit.
market segment by refreshing its product range and offering a more personalised diet plan.
The impairment review of the business resulted in an impairment loss of 363 million 2004: 791 million reected in operating profit for the Americas region.
The impairment review was based on determining the value in use of the global Slim Fast business incorporating a number of important assumptions regarding the future performance of the Slim Fast business.
For further details, refer to note 10 on page 99.
20 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005
