Nature of the trading market The principal trading markets upon which Unilever shares are The high and low trading prices for the separate stock exchange listed are Euronext Amsterdam for NV ordinary shares and the listings are shown in the tables on the following page.
London Stock Exchange for PLC ordinary shares.
NV ordinary shares mainly trade in the form of depositary receipts for shares NV and PLC are separate companies with separate stock exchange and almost all the shares and depositary receipts thereof are in listings and different shareholders.
Shareholders cannot convert or bearer form.
PLC ordinary shares are all in registered form.
exchange the shares of one for shares of the other and the relative share prices on the various markets can, and do, In the United States, NV ordinary shares in registered form and uctuate.
This happens for various reasons, including changes in PLC American Depositary Receipts, each representing four PLC exchange rates.
However, over time the prices of NV and PLC ordinary shares, are traded on the New York Stock Exchange.
shares do stay in close relation to each other, in particular because Citibank, NA acts for NV and PLC as issuer, transfer agent and, in of our equalisation arrangements.
respect of the American Depositary Receipts, depositary.
If you are a shareholder of NV, you have an interest The NV depositary receipts for ordinary shares are also listed on in a Netherlands legal entity, your dividends will be paid in euros the stock exchanges in Frankfurt and Zrich.
converted into US dollars if you have shares registered in the United States and you will be subject to Netherlands tax.
If you There have not been any significant trading suspensions in the are a shareholder of PLC, your interest is in a United Kingdom past three years.
legal entity, your dividends will be paid in sterling converted into US dollars if you have American Depositary Receipts and you will At 28 February 2006 there were 7 060 registered holders of NV be subject to United Kingdom tax.
Nevertheless, the Equalisation ordinary shares and 1 176 registered holders of PLC American Agreement means that as a shareholder of either company you Depositary Receipts in the United States.
We estimate that effectively have an interest in the whole of Unilever.
You have approximately 28% of NVs ordinary shares were held in the largely equal rights over our combined net profit and capital United States approximately 27% in 2004, based on the reserves as shown in the consolidated accounts.
See Taxation for distribution of the 2005 interim dividend payments, while US residents on pages 184 and 185 and Equalisation Agreement most holders of PLC ordinary shares are registered in the United on pages 41 and 42.
Kingdom approximately 99% in both 2005 and 2004.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 183 Shareholder information Nature of the trading market continued Share prices at 31 December 2005 The share price of the ordinary shares at the end of the year was for NV 57.85 and $68.65 and for PLC 576.5p and $40.12.
