Cross reference to Form 20-F PART I 10 Additional information 10A Share capital n a 1 Identity of directors, senior management 10B Memorandum and articles of association 34-44, 124-125, 173 and advisers n a 10C Material contracts 34, 41-43 10D Exchange controls 182 2 Offer statistics and expected timetable n a 10E Taxation 184-185 10F Dividends and paying agents n a 3 Key information 10G Statement by experts n a 3A Selected financial data 124, 152-156, 188 10H Documents on display 161 3B Capitalization and indebtedness n a 10I Subsidiary information n a 3C Reasons for the offer and use of proceeds n a 3D Risk factors 31-32 11 Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32, 86-87, 105-113 4 Information on the company 4A History and development of 4, 10-14, 34, 188 12 Description of securities other than equity securities n a the company 4B Business overview 10-14, 26-30 PART II 4C Organisational structure 34-40, 167-168 4D Property, plant and equipment 14 13 Defaults, dividend arrearages and delinquencies n a 4A Unresolved staff comments n a 14 Material modications to the rights of security holders and use of proceeds n a 5 Operating and financial review and prospects 5A Operating results 16-30 15 Controls and procedures 74 5B Liquidity and capital resources 16-25, 74, 105-114 5C Research and development, patents and 16 Reserved licences, etc.
10-14, 26-30, 93 16A Audit Committee financial expert 39 5D Trend information 5-7, 16-30 16B Code of Ethics 34, 47-48 5E Off balance sheet arrangements 24, 110-113 16C Principal accountant fees and services 70-71, 93 5F Tabular disclosure of contractual obligations 23-24 16D Exemptions from the Listing Standards for 5G Safe harbour 4 Audit Committees n a 16E Purchases of equity securities by the issuer and 6 Directors, senior management and employees afliated purchasers 181 6A Directors and senior management 34-50 6B Compensation 53-69, 114-122, 132-143 PART III 6C Board practices 34-50, 52-69 6D Employees 10-11 17 Financial statements n a 6E Share ownership 53-69, 132-141 18 Financial statements 78-151, 157-166 7 Major shareholders and related party transactions 7A Major shareholders 44, 180 19 Exhibits 7B Related party transactions 13, 142 7C Interests of experts and counsel n a 8 Financial information 8A Consolidated statements and other financial information 78-166, 186 8B significant changes 25, 143 Filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
9 The offer and listing 9A Offer and listing details 182-183 Unilevers agent in the United States is Mr R Soiefer, Senior Vice- 9B Plan of distribution n a President, General Counsel and Secretary, Unilever United States, 9C Markets 2, 182-183 Inc. 700 Sylvan Avenue, Englewood Cliffs, NJ 07632.
9D Selling shareholders n a 9E Dilution n a 9F Expenses of the issue n a Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 191 Shareholder information Designed and produced by Addison Corporate Marketing Photography by Igor Emmerich Typeset by Paufey, London Printed by St Ives Westerham Press under ISO 14001 environmental accreditation.
All paper used in the production of this report is recyclable and bio degradable and contains 50% recovered bre.
The paper was manufactured under ISO 9002 and ISO 14001 environmental accreditation.
2005 Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement Our corporate purpose Unilevers mission is to add vitality to life.
We meet everyday needs for nutrition, hygiene and personal care with brands that help people feel good, look good and get more out of life.
Our deep roots in local cultures and markets around the world give us our strong relationship with consumers and are the foundation for our future growth.
We will bring our wealth of knowledge and international expertise to the service of local consumers a truly multi-local multinational.
Our long-term success requires a total commitment to exceptional standards of performance and productivity, to working together effectively, and to a willingness to embrace new ideas and learn continuously.
To succeed also requires, we believe, the highest standards of corporate behaviour towards everyone we work with, the communities we touch, and the environment on which we have an impact.
This is our road to sustainable, profitable growth, creating long-term value for our shareholders, our people, and our business partners.
The two parent companies, Unilever N. V. NV and in Dutch guilders, which have not been converted into are they guarantees of future performance.
Because these Unilever PLC PLC, together with their group companies, euros in NVs Articles of Association.
Until conversion formally forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, operate effectively as a single economic entity the Unilever takes place by amendment of the Articles of Association, the there are important factors that could cause actual results to Group, also referred to as Unilever or the Group.
This Annual entitlements to dividends and voting rights are based on the differ materially from those expressed or implied by these Review therefore deals with the operations and the results of euro equivalent of the underlying Dutch guilders according forward-looking statements, including, among others, the Unilever Group as a whole.
The Unilever Annual Review to the official euro exchange rate.
competitive pricing and activities, consumption levels, costs, the and Annual Report and Accounts is produced in Dutch ability to maintain and manage key customer relationships and and English.
The term shares as used in this document should, supply chain sources, currency values, interest rates, the ability with respect to shares issued by N. V. be construed to to integrate acquisitions and complete planned divestitures, The brand names shown in italics in this Annual Review include depositary receipts for shares issued by Stichting physical risks, environmental risks, the ability to manage are trademarks owned by or licensed to companies within Administratiekantoor Unilever N. V. unless the context regulatory, tax and legal matters and resolve pending matters the Unilever Group.
otherwise requires or unless it is clear from the nature within current estimates, legislative, fiscal and regulatory of the notification that this is not the case.
developments, political, economic and social conditions in the Unilever has adopted the euro as its principal reporting geographic markets where the Group operates and new or currency.
The figures in this Annual Review are expressed The exchange rates used in the preparation of this changed priorities of the Boards.
in euros with translations, for convenience purposes, into Annual Review are given on page 28. sterling and US dollars.
Further details of potential risks and uncertainties affecting the Cautionary statement Group are described in the Groups filings with the London In the following commentary, sales growth is stated on an This document may contain forward-looking statements, Stock Exchange, Euronext Amsterdam and the US Securities underlying basis at constant exchange rates and excluding including forward-looking statements within the meaning and Exchange Commission, including the Annual Report and the effects of acquisitions and disposals.
For further of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of Accounts on Form 20-F.
These forward-looking statements speak information, please refer to our website at 1995.
Words such as expects, anticipates, intends or the only as of the date of this document.
Except as required by any www.
com investorcentre negative of these terms and other similar expressions of future applicable law or regulation, the Group expressly disclaims any performance or results and their negatives are intended to obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or For NV share capital, the euro amounts shown in this identify such forward-looking statements.
These forwardrevisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein document are representations in euros on the basis of looking statements are based upon current expectations and to reflect any change in the Groups expectations with regard Article 67c of Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands, assumptions regarding anticipated developments and other thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances rounded to two decimal places, of underlying share capital factors affecting the Group.
They are not historical facts, nor on which any such statement is based.
| 1 Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Contents 02 04 06 Financial highlights Unilever at a glance Chairmans foreword Foods and Home and personal care brands of the year in more than 100 countries worldwide 08 Group Chief Executive 12 13 Innovation across Committed our business to operating Embracing vitality at the responsibly core of our brands 22 16 Corporate Governance Regional review 23 Overall market share has been stabilised in Europe, while Competing more The Americas and Asia Africa enjoyed more competitive, effectively through volume-driven growth our people 26 Board of Directors 28 Summary financial statement 32 Summary remuneration report 37 Shareholder information Q&A Financial highlights of the year 1 Turnover Operating profit Dividends 2 million million per 0.51 Ordinary share of NV 2005 2005 2005 39 672 5 314 1.98 2004 2004 2004 38 566 4 239 1.89 2 3 million million pence per 1.4p Ordinary share of PLC 2005 2005 2005 27 124 3 633 20.31 2004 2004 2004 26 151 2 876 19.15 2 $ million $ million $ per 0.51 New York share of NV 2005 2005 2005 49 352 6 611 2.37 2004 2004 2004 47 744 5 249 2.42 $ per 5.6p American Depositary 2 3 Receipt of PLC 2005 1.42 2004 1.43 1 Dividends for each year comprise dividends declared or proposed for that year.
Under IFRSs, dividends are only recorded against the year in which they become payable.
2 Rounded to two decimal places 3 Actual dividends payable for 2005 on NV New York shares and American Depositary Receipts of PLC may differ from those shown above, which include final dividend values calculated using the rates of exchange ruling on 8 February 2006 1.00 $1.1948, 1.00 $1.7427.
With effect from 1 January 2005, Unilever has adopted International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU, with a transition date of 1 January 2004.
For further details of this change please refer to page 29.
2 2 | | 3 3 Unilever Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 % 3.1 Unilevers total dividend increased Underlying sales by 5% NV and 6% PLC.
up 3.1% Market shares stable overall.
Earnings per share up 37%, with 22% from continuing operations, benefiting from lower restructuring, disposal and impairment charges.
Increased investment behind growth priorities, including additional 500 million on advertising and promotions.
Productivity improvements and better mix more than offset higher input costs.
Unilever at a glance With strong local roots in more than100 countries across the globe, Unilever has a powerful portfolio of Foods and Home and personal care HPC brands.
This includes twelve 1 billion brands and global leadership in many categories in which the company operates.
Below are some of our innovations in 2005.
Foods Knorr continues to break new ground.
The latest example of this is its healthy fruit and vegetable mini shots which help you on your way to your daily fruit and vegetable needs.
Bertolli has brought the authentic taste of Italy to frozen meals with its gourmet-standard Dinners for Two.
The innovative redesign of the packaging of Brooke Bond in India made the brand more relevant to local consumers.
4 | 5 Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Asia Africa The Americas Europe Home and personal care Sunsilk new hair colour enhancement range in Europe was designed to increase the brands appeal among young consumers.
all Small and Mighty concentrated liquid detergent in the US, the first of its kind and a major space saver for retailers.
The launch of Ponds whitening platform underlined Unilevers strength in the face care category across Asia.
Chairmans foreword 2005 was the first year when Patrick and I worked together as respectively Group Chief Executive and Chairman.
I'five been delighted with how successfully our combination has developed.
Id like to congratulate Patrick and his between both parent companies.
This It was one of the Executive, as well as all the staff at Unilever, will ensure that the Group continues to for the progress made during the year.
be able to return capital to shareholders most exhaustive Although there is still work to do to release and pay dividends in the most efficient the full growth potential of our powerful manner.
To simplify the relationship between and thorough portfolio of brands, the business has our NV and PLC shares, and provide stabilised its aggregate market share, greater transparency, we also propose reviews that I have a key objective in 2005. establishing a one-to-one equivalence in their underlying value by splitting the NV seen undertaken.
To ensure the business has the best shares and consolidating the PLC shares.
structure and governance processes to Finally, we intend to allow shareholders deliver long-term shareholder value in the While this conclusion might seem somewhat the right to nominate candidates to the top third of our peer group, I set myself unexpected in an age of constant change, Boards, taking into account the need to three objectives at the start of last year.
it is totally consistent with the reviews three ensure the unity of management.
Details These were reviewing Unilevers dual guiding principles.
The current structure of all these changes are set out in the NV PLC structure, evaluating its corporate has been and still serves as a framework Notices convening the AGMs.
governance procedures and preparing by which we can benefit from the best of for a series of Board departures over the many cultures and influences.
Board succession next couple of years.
As I mentioned earlier, one of my objectives Moving to a unitary structure would not was to prepare for Board succession.
Three Dual structure strengths only be costly and disruptive to the business Non-Executive Directors will be retiring in The review of Unilevers structure, which but in our case would not yield the material 2006 Bertrand Collomb, Oscar Fanjul and I led with the support of two Non-Executive advantages to justify it.
As a result of changes Hilmar Kopper.
I would like to thank them Directors, as well as a team of leading made to our Boards and leadership for their enormous contribution over the independent financial and legal advisers, structures at the beginning of 2005, Unilever years.
This presents us with both a challenge involved over six months of hard work.
already has operational and governance and an opportunity to re-populate the As one independent adviser commented: unity, with a single Chairman, a single Boards with new members who can build It was one of the most exhaustive and Board with a majority of Non-Executive on our retiring members strengths and thorough reviews that I have seen Directors, a single Group Chief Executive help take Unilever forward.
The current structure does not hinder the operation of After a thorough search I am pleased to Three important principles guided the review.
the business, its decision making ability or announce the nomination of four new First, Unilevers commercial operations should organisational efficiency.
Unilever might also Non-Executive Directors, all with extensive be advanced and not prejudiced by any in moving to a unitary structure lose some financial and business experience, to take change.
Second, any change should have of the fiscal flexibility that it has under its over from the Board members retiring this tangible benefits for shareholders.
year and Claudio Gonzalez who retired at change should improve transparency and the 2005 AGMs.
These are Charles Golden, flexibility.
These principles were designed Changes Executive Vice President and CFO of Eli Lilly to ensure that any resulting structure serves This does not mean, of course, that we and Company, Byron Grote, CFO of BP p. l. c. the best interests of both the business and cannot improve our existing arrangements.
Jean-Cyril Spinetta, Chairman CEO of Air our shareholders.
The Boards will be proposing to shareholders France-KLM S. A. and Kornelis Kees Storm, at the May 2006 AGMs three changes to former Chairman of the Executive Board Based on these criteria and an in-depth enhance the balance sheet and capital of AEGON N. V. analysis, the Boards unanimously concluded structure flexibility, as well as strengthen that Unilevers current dual structure, with elements of its corporate governance.
We engaged the services of two highly some important changes, meets the needs reputable independent search firms to help of the business for the foreseeable future.
These include adapting Unilevers us in this task and they are also leading constitutional arrangements to allow the evaluation of potential candidates greater flexibility for allocating assets to succeed me as Chairman in 2007.
6 | 7 Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Review of Unilevers Structure Governance study Based on an in-depth analysis.
The Boards unanimously concluded that Unilevers During 2005, we also commissioned current dual structure, with some important a review of Unilevers governance changes, meets the needs of the business arrangements to ensure that these were for the foreseeable future.
The proposed changes are: The review was conducted by independent consultants who concluded that our To adapt Unilevers constitutional arrangements stood comparison with our arrangements to allow greater flexibility peers.
A full report was made to the Boards to allocate assets between both parent in the first quarter of 2006 and a range companies.
This will ensure that Unilever continues to be able to return capital of minor changes in terms of the day to day to shareholders and to pay dividends operation of the Boards will be introduced in the most efficient manner.
during the balance of the year.
To simplify the relationship between A particular pleasure for me this year our NV and PLC shares by establishing has been to work with our social and a one-to-one equivalence in their environmental partners, for example with economic interest in the Unilever Group.
UNICEFs Child Nutrition programme and This will create transparency between the World Business Council for Sustainable the quotations of our shares and will Development.
Ensuring the vitality of the be achieved by a split of the NV shares and a consolidation of the PLC shares.
societies and environments in which we operate is essential for Unilever to sustain To allow shareholders the right to its long-term growth.
nominate candidates to the Boards, taking into account the need to It is good to see that the many changes ensure the unity of management.
that were initiated over the last 12 months have not impeded the progress of Unilever The Boards will be proposing resolutions in the market place.
All this progress would in relation to these changes to shareholders not be possible without the commitment at the AGMs in 2006. and the hard work of all our 206 000 employees.
Without their dedication we could not add vitality to the lives of our consumers across the globe.
On behalf of the Boards I would like to convey my thanks to all of them.
Antony Burgmans Chairman Group Chief Executive Here Patrick Cescau, Group Chief Executive, talks about performance in 2005 and looks ahead to what needs to be achieved over the next 12 months.
Q: What was the key challenge Our mission is to for 2005?
A: At the start of 2005 it was clear what help people feel good, we had to do.
We had to restore our Q&A competitiveness in the market and get look good and get the business growing again.
more out of life But we had to do it in a way that we can sustain for the long-term, creating value and this underpins and unlocking our full potential.
Q: How did you set about tackling this challenge?
A: Our approach was simple to focus Q: Overall, what results have been on three things that matter.
achieved by following this approach?
A: We have made real progress.
In 2005 First, to make our portfolio work harder underlying sales growth was 3.1%, for us, with sharper priorities and resource significantly ahead of a flat 2004, and in allocation.
Secondly, better execution, line with our markets.
Growth momentum especially in the areas of marketing and has improved steadily throughout the year customer management.
And, finally, create and has been driven by volume.
a more agile One Unilever organisation, aligned behind a single strategy, with the Im also pleased to report that our growth right people in the right jobs, delivering rates improved across most of our major quality and speed of execution.
markets and in most categories.
These figures are a real testament to the hard Q: What were the priorities and work of our people, the strength of our why did you focus on these areas?
brands and the resilience of our business.
A: We focused on building on our strengths in developing and emerging D&E markets, Restoring growth required a step up in vitality and Personal Care.
They are areas investment behind our brands.
In 2005, of strength for Unilever where we have we invested an extra 500 million in performed well, with good growth and advertising and promotions.
invested significantly to reduce prices, especially in Europe, and offer better Regaining momentum in Europe was an value to the consumer in selected equally important priority.
Our savings programmes generated more than 700 million in 2005 and helped fund the additional investment in our brands and absorb the impact of higher input costs.
Q: Why has Personal Care played a key role in the strategy?
A: Personal Care is one of our traditional strengths and accounts for around a quarter of sales, so it was vital we delivered real growth.
8 | 9 Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 The Unilever Executive closer to the marketplace Over the last year or so, Personal Care The Unilever Executive UEx, headed by Group Chief has been achieving growth levels that are Executive Patrick Cescau, is the top management team up with the best at more than 6%.
The Group Chief Executive is we have delivered broad-based share gain accountable for all aspects of Unilever operations, across most of our biggest markets and managing business performance and overall profit strong profitability.
Key to this success are our brands.
The UEx team comprises three regional presidents The big global brands such as Axe, Dove, The Americas, Asia Africa and Europe, two category Lux, Rexona and Sunsilk all performed presidents Foods and HPC, the Chief Financial Officer and delivered growth.
Smaller, more local and the Chief Human Resources Officer.
brands such as Clear and Lifebuoy also pulled their weight.
The categories and regions have distinct but complementary roles.
The regions are responsible for Q: What role has vitality played in profit, implementing proven brand mixes in their region the progress thats been achieved?
and single-mindedly focused on growth through A: Vitality unites us as a mission and excellent go-to-market execution.
The categories are resonates with our customers and responsible for category strategy and brand development consumers.
Our mission is to help people feel good, The interdependence between the regions and the look good and get more out of life and categories allows us to capitalise on our global scale this underpins everything we do.
while building on our deep roots in local markets.
It is the inspiration for innovations that are Finance and HR ensure excellence in their functional driving growth across the entire product areas and provide support to the regions, categories portfolio.
Lipton and AdeS healthy and and Corporate Centre.
refreshing beverages: Dove the Campaign for Real Beauty: and healthier choices in In 2005, Unilevers executive management completed ice cream.
the successful transition to become a smaller, more focused team, closer to the market and able to make In Foods, for instance, our Knorr Vie mini speedier decisions.
shots, which help you on your way The current members of the UEx, as photographed on this page, towards your daily fruit and vegetable are from the top : needs, have done extremely well in Europe.
We have revitalised Lipton in the US by Group Chief Executive, Patrick Cescau stressing its natural health benefits with Chief Financial Officer, Rudy Markham its AOX antioxidant seal, and this has President Asia Africa, Harish Manwani Chief Human Resources Officer, Sandy Ogg produced good share gain especially in President Home and personal care, Ralph Kugler the ready-to-drink market.
President Europe, Kees van der Graaf President The Americas, John Rice In HPC, our Dove campaign for Real Beauty, President Foods, Vindi Banga which offers consumers a broader, healthier view of female beauty, has played a central role in the brands continued growth, while programmes to encourage hygienic handwashing in India have improved sales of Lifebuoy.
Group Chief Executive continued Q: You mentioned developing and Western Europe is an extremely tough And we intend to get more out of the emerging markets.
Why are these so competitive environment and to turn the investment in our brands whether it be important to Unilever?
business around we are having to do things in advertising or in R&D.
A: D&E are rapidly growing markets the differently.
We have addressed pricing in forecast is that they will account for 90% selected markets and categories and by Q: In 2004 you announced One of the worlds population by 2010.
We doing so are now offering consumers Unilever as a way of simplifying the have long-established local roots in these better value.
Has it markets which gives us a competitive achieved this?
advantage and we need to capitalise We are also increasing choice by extending A: Our One Unilever programme is all on this opportunity.
our product portfolio ice cream value about making us fit to compete.
It has ranges, for example, and by moving into achieved a great deal in simplifying In 2005 we delivered a strong performance a wider range of channels.
And we are our business and leveraging our scale in all major D&E markets in Foods, Home delivering innovation new heart health more effectively.
And for the first ranges and Sunsilk styling are just two time, our D&E sales, at 38%, exceeded examples, which are being backed by We have merged our operations in countries our sales in Western Europe.
so that, at the end of 2005, almost 80% of our turnover is managed through One The reason for our success here is partly Unilever organisations.
due to our well-established distribution Our One Unilever strength in both the traditional and modern We will continue with its implementation trade and also to our ability to adapt in 2006 with our priorities being to put in programme is all excellent global brand concepts, such place a single management team in all as the Omo Dirt is Good campaign, to markets.
Most of our top 20 markets about making us local markets.
In Turkey, for instance, this report directly to UEx.
There will be a further enabled us to regain market leadership reduction in the management headcount fit to compete.
and simplified, standardised business services up and running, with a substantial Q: But what has been achieved in Q: What are you doing to build proportion outsourced.
A: Our sustained recovery in the US is A: This is another area we are investing in.
By the end of 2006, One Unilever will great news for us.
In one of the worlds Customer management is a strategic deliver 700 million savings and 1 billion most competitive markets we grew by priority and our team is implementing an by the end of 2007.
But the biggest benefit 3.2% with strong performances from improvement programme market by for us is that we now have one face for both Foods and HPC.
our customers and consumers, as well as being faster and more disciplined.
In other Europe has been an area that needed our An important element of this programme words we are fit to compete.
A healthy European business is combining our Foods and HPC sales teams matters to Unilever.
It delivers a large so that we can present a single, integrated Q: What is driving the decisions you proportion of our sales 41% in 2005 face to our customers and leverage our are making relating to the portfolio?
and is an important source of profit.
The programme developed in the A: In 2005 we reviewed and sharpened our USA has been rolled out in France, portfolio strategy.
It is an essential building Looking at our performance, Central and Germany and the Netherlands and will be block that gives us clarity it identifies the Eastern Europe performed strongly in 2005 extended to other markets in 2006. best opportunities for sustainable longwith Russia, for example, delivering around term growth, enables us to make choices 20% growth.
So the challenge is Western By working closely with our customers such and to allocate resources according to Europe.
And the issue here is growth, as Carrefour, Tesco and Wal-Mart we are those choices.
It then allows us to drive not profitability.
increasing the value that we can gain by disciplined execution.
We had to take decisive action on parts We are also improving our marketing of our portfolio where we had reached capabilities.
For example, we will craft a strategic cross-roads.
more of our global brand mixes to the standards set by the best of our brands.
10 | 11 Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Unilevers change agenda Q: Unilever is now in better shape, with Unilevers change agenda focuses on the Our number one increased competitiveness and growth.
things that matter for unlocking Unilevers Whats your summary of 2005?
priority in 2005 was A: We have achieved a tremendous amount in 2005 organisational change, improved Making our portfolio work harder restoring growth.
Our by channelling our resources to build people have much to make them proud.
more leadership positions in key In 2006, it is to markets and a more powerful The Unilever team has worked together to presence in higher growth spaces.
sustain our growth create a momentum that will help us rise to the challenges of the year ahead.
Ensuring that and improve is still a great deal to do, but we know the we are excellent in marketing and categories segments, brands and countries customer management, not just in our margins.
And we are now parts of the business but everywhere.
rigorously deploying our funds and The sale of UCI Unilever Cosmetics resources behind our best opportunities.
Creating a simpler, International and the recent announcement more agile One Unilever organisation, of our intention to sell the majority of our We have the right structure to deliver and aligned behind our strategy, with the European frozen foods business were tough the processes in place to make sure that we right people in the right jobs and decisions.
We made them because it was execute against our priorities.
Our people capable of leveraging Unilevers scale clear we would not be able to grow these are clear about what they need to do.
businesses in the long-term which is fundamental to future value creation.
We We will build on what we achieved in 2005 Our number one priority in 2005 was felt we had better opportunities to invest in and deliver the results we have promised for restoring growth.
In 2006, it is to sustain and that these businesses would perform 2006.
This will unlock more of the unique our growth and improve our margins.
better in the hands of owners to whom potential of Unilever.
I passionately believe they were a top priority.
that we can now compete to win.
As we move forward we will continue to invest behind our best growth opportunities, channelling more of our resources into building leading positions in high growth areas.
Q: Continuing to look forward, what are your priorities for 2006 and beyond?
A: Our priorities will not change.
We will continue to build on the stronger focus we now have.
UEx believes that the portfolio is in good shape: all parts of our business have an important role to play in delivering growth, but its not always the same role.
Obviously I cant disclose all our intentions in detail.
But I would like to give you some insight into our priorities for 2006.
You will not be surprised to hear that our plans include capitalising on the high-growth potential of D&E markets such as China, India and Russia.
Or that in Personal Care, we will be building on our leading market positions in deodorants and personal wash. And that vitality will continue to be at the heart of our innovation programme.
Innovation across our business Foods Improving quality Highlights Vindi Banga Improved quality has been another theme President Foods of our innovations, reflected in the launch The growth of healthier innovations,.
of our gourmet-standard Bertolli Dinner for such as Becel Flora pro activ and Knorr Vie, Two frozen range, a major success in the is a direct result of our vitality strategy.
Knorr has also produced exceptional results in the Netherlands and other We completed our nutritional European countries with its new, highenhancement programme.
Over 16 000 quality wet soups in pouches also sold as products have been assessed for levels Unox, as has our ice cream business with of trans fats, saturated fats, sodium and its new and intensely flavoured Magnum sugars, and, where necessary, action has Five Senses.
been taken to reduce them.
Embracing vitality Were embracing vitality at the core of Greater affordability Our R&D has been restructured to our Foods brands, ensuring they deliver For developing and emerging markets, operate as a single, integrated the nutritional and health benefits that weve continued to make our products organisation, enabling us to leverage consumers are increasingly demanding, more affordable through packaging and our global scale and allocate resources as well as that essential ingredient for price-per-serving with pioneering products more productively.
such as Knorr Cubitos seasoning cubes see page 22.. Becel Flora pro activ is a case in point.
Originally launched as a spread to help Healthier ways to eat out of home people reduce their cholesterol, Becel Flora While consumers increasingly look for ways.
pro activ has extended rapidly into a range to eat healthily out of home, they are not that includes milk drinks, yoghurt products willing to sacrifice taste and convenience.
Its no longer just about This often challenges foodservice operators cholesterol either, as theres now a minito offer food that meets all the needs of drink to help people control blood pressure.
Our Unilever Foodsolutions In fact, the brand has proved so effective business gives foodservice professionals in improving heart health, as part of a products that deliver delicious taste, balanced diet, that the Netherlands consistent quality, convenience and largest health insurer, VGZ, is rewarding healthier menu options.
its policy holders financially when they.
buy Becel Flora pro activ products.
In 2005 we launched Knorr Coulis, a new innovative range of pure sauces made from To help consumers meet their daily freshly mashed vegetables.
To be used nutritional requirements, we also launched as a warm or cold sauce or as a natural Knorr Vie mini shots in Europe.
Free of ingredient, Knorr Coulis creatively refines preservatives and other additives, these and decorates all types of dishes.
With its convenient natural drinks help you on your pure, high quality ingredients, its fresh way towards your daily fruit and vegetable authentic taste and exciting colours it is needs.
Other advances included new fruit a solution that brings chefmanship and variants of our nutritionally rich, soya-based vitality naturally together.
drink, AdeS, in Latin America.
Like so many of our brands that have embraced vitality, AdeS has proved a success and will be extended to other markets.
Our dedicated new vitality platforms group are actively creating numerous future opportunities In the US, Lipton is emphasising such as the ones mentioned above.
teas natural health benefits, including antioxidants, which  claims has produced double-digit In all cases, whether were communicating growth and increased its share the health benefits of Lipton tea or the of the ready-to-drink market.
vitality credentials of Hellmanns, we only make health and nutrition claims for our brands that are supported by robust,  evidence.
This approach is underpinned by a strict claims guidance framework, as well as a commitment to make nutritional information available to consumers.
12 | 13 Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Committed to operating responsibly Lipton has brightened We seek to manage and grow our business around the world in a responsible and up its performance by sustainable fashion.
The values and standards by which we expect to be judged are set highlighting the brands out in our Code of Business Principles.
We aim to share these standards and values with our suppliers and contractors through our Business Partner Code which, in turn, is based on our Code of Business Principles.
It sets out standards on ten key points of business integrity, labour standards, consumer safety and the environment.
The long-term success of our business is intimately linked with the vitality of the environment and the communities in which we operate.
More than two-thirds of our raw materials come from agriculture, while water and other natural resources play an equally critical role in our business.
To ensure we protect these key resources, we have clear, long-term eco-efficiency objectives and targets for our manufacturing operations, as well as three sustainability initiatives on water, agriculture and fish.
Over the last ten years, we have continued to improve our eco-efficiency performance across all of our seven key environmental parameters which we use to measure the emissions from our factories and set future reduction targets.
In 2004 latest available figures we continued to improve on our 2003 performance but did not meet all our targets.
The strength of our commitment to sustainability is reflected in the fact that we remain the leading food company in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index.
In 2005 we spent around 79 million on our voluntary initiatives in communities around the world.
This increase on our 2004 contribution of 65 million is partly due to the overwhelming response of our business to the plight of the December 2004 Asian tsunami victims.
On the following pages you will find examples of our commitment to running a responsible business.
More information can be found on our website at www.
com ourvalues Innovation across our business continued Home and personal care Reinvigorating Home Care Highlights Ralph Kugler Innovation has reinvigorated our laundry President Home business.
The Omo Dirt is Good campaign The success of all Small and Mighty liquid and personal care was rolled out across most of Asia after its detergent has underlined the power of launch in Latin America and Europe, giving stronger relationships with our customers.
In Europe, we introduced a new gel-layered detergent Dove and Rexona extended their tablet that helped make Skip the fastest leadership with launches such as Dove growing HPC brand in France by the end of Cool Moisture and Rexona teens.
A new whiteness shading technology in Latin America gave consumers more Technological breakthroughs have appealing whites with Radiant.
The spearheaded the recovery of our Home Embedding vitality proprietary technology behind the innovation Care business, as well as hair in Asia.
Vitality is now central to our HPC business.
is ensuring we keep ahead of our key competitors.
In North America, all Small and To make greater inroads in the US skin The Dove Campaign for Real Beauty, Omo Mighty is leading the concentrated liquid market, we opened a new $23 million Dirt is Good and Lifebuoy Handwashing detergent market.
Its success illustrates R&D facility in Connecticut.
campaign in Asia are tangible programmes how great mixes, which have both a that bring Unilevers vitality mission to life consumer-winning innovation and a strong in our HPC brands.
customer benefit, can be successful.
In China, we continued to develop the fabric The success of Lifebuoy in India and conditioners market where Comfort is the Indonesia contributed to the performance market leader.
of our skin business in Asia, as did the launch of Ponds whitening platform, The level of innovation in household care which underlines Unilevers strength in has been equally creative.
Cif, for example, the face care sector across Asia.
rolled out pioneering power cream sprays for the bathroom and kitchen.
The traditional Energising Personal Care offer to the consumer of cream from Cif The new Dove Cool Moisture range was has now been enhanced with an attractive launched in North America while the Dove new proposition with the same power of firming range was rolled out globally.
Domestos, We also extended the Dove Campaign meanwhile, extended its kill germ power for Real Beauty with the creation of the into a new territory with the sink and drain Dove Self-Esteem Fund for young women unblocker which now clears blockages up to educate and inspire girls on a wider to twice as fast as the market leader.
In South Africa we relaunched Vaseline with a range of lotions and creams aligned with the new global packaging.
We also launched South Africas first mass-market male lotion, new Vaseline For Men.
With its unique clean-rinse To grow our share of the male grooming formulation and extracts of market, we launched Axe shower gel in cucumber and green tea, North America.
Within just three years, our new Dove Cool Moisture Axe has become the leading deodorant range has attracted new brand in the US.
We also launched Rexona consumers to the brand.
Sport for Men with an award-winning advertising campaign called Stunt City.
Rexona is now the number one male deodorant brand in Russia and Ukraine.
In hair, the new Sunsilk colour enhancement range in Europe has been designed to increase the brands appeal among young consumers.
In oral care, the worlds first centre-filled gel toothpaste was introduced in Vietnam.
14 | 15 Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Winning with health awareness Were refreshing our brands programmes Our Close Up toothpaste brand launched with smart, consumer-led Project Smile to bring much-needed oral health care products and advice to people innovations and enjoying the in rural Nigeria where only about 60% of the population use toothpaste.
The campaign benefits, as Dove has shown.
involved retailers of all sizes, including the very smallest, as partners.
We created branded kiosks tiny shops to promote Close Up and these gave an opportunity to unemployed young people to make a living by creating new long-term outlets, as well as offering existing retailers a way to showcase their wares.
The success of the campaign meant it was quickly extended into towns and cities and over the year, sales rose by 35%.
Sharpening our edge in raw materials Ensuring a sustainable supply of raw materials, such as palm oil, is essential for the long-term wealth of our business.
Of course, due to the scale and complexity of this issue, we cannot do this alone.
Thats why we co-founded the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil RSPO in 2004.
The RSPO, which includes palm oil growers and processors, consumer goods manufacturers, retailers, investors and a number of social and environmental non-governmental organisations, now has over 100 members.
As the largest consumer goods company on the RSPO Board, weve gained significant insights.
Key developments during 2005 included the adoption of the principles and criteria for Sustainable Palm Oil Production elements of sustainability ensuring that production is economically viable, environmentally appropriate and socially beneficial.
Regional performance review Europe In Foods, we have held overall market Highlights Europe Kees van der Graaf share through the course of the year, with at current rates of exchange President Europe growth across all key categories apart from million 2005 2004 Change frozen foods.
On 9 February 2006 we Turnover 16 211 16 650 2.6 % announced that we were putting up for Operating profit 2 304 2 303 0.0% sale the majority of our frozen foods Operating margin 14.2% 13.8% business in Europe.
million 2005 2004 Change In Home and personal care we had a disappointing year and we have lost Turnover 11 084 11 290 1.8 % Operating profit 1 575 1 563 0.8% market share, particularly in the UK.
Our priority in Europe is to regain Overall, there was some pick-up in the $ million 2005 2004 Change momentum and improve competitiveness.
fourth quarter but we are not yet where Turnover 20 167 20 612 2.2 % The focus has been on enhancing the value we want to be.
Operating profit 2 867 2 852 0.5% to consumers of our products through keener pricing, improved quality and more New product launches this year have Change at and better innovation.
included Knorr Vie mini shots, extensions constant.
2004 rates of the Becel Flora pro activ heart health Marketing support has been raised to a more range, soups fortified with vitamins and Turnover 3.0 % competitive level with additional spend low fat soups.
Underlying sales 0.8 % Operating profit 0.2 % deployed against our best opportunities.
The organisation is being streamlined and We have introduced a Rexona Sport variant we are building up stronger capabilities in in deodorants, Axe shower gel and Sunsilk customer management.
We have further improved our Home Care product range We have made progress over the last year.
with launches that address specific consumer Volume has been slightly positive needs, such as no-need-to-pre-treat laundry compared with a 2% decline in 2004, but detergents, Sun 4-in-1 dishwash and investment in pricing meant that underlying Domestos sink and drain unblocker.
sales declined by 0.8% in the year.
The operating margin, at 14.2%, was Central and Eastern Europe performed well 0.4 percentage points higher than last in buoyant markets, notably in Russia which year.
Increased advertising and promotions was ahead by nearly 20%.
and pricing investment together with higher input costs were partly offset Western Europe was challenging, with by productivity gains.
Net restructuring, continued weak consumer demand.
disposal and impairment costs, at 0.8% Our businesses grew in the Netherlands were 1.5 percentage points lower than and Spain, but declined by around 2% in 2004. in France and Germany and by nearly 4% in the UK.
Our Family Goodness range of margarines, Rama, Blue Band and Doriana, stress the natural goodness of vegetable oils.
Recent developments to the range include an improved value price relationship and more modern packaging.
16 | 17 Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Whats in our products In 2005 we launched a searchable database where consumers can find out exactly what ingredients are used in our Home and personal care products in Europe.
By returning to its roots, our Access to the database is through Unilevers website at www.
com ourvalues margarines business is reinvigorating Visitors select their country and preferred language before choosing a brand its competitiveness.
A single click then reveals the full list of ingredients.
Allergy sufferers can check the presence of ingredients to which they could be sensitive.
Further help is available through the brand carelines telephone numbers are listed on the website and there is additional information on our website about the chemicals Unilever uses in its products.
Promoting healthy hearts Millions of people suffer from heart disease every year.
The World Heart Federation WHF is committed to helping the prevention and control of heart disease and stroke and is made up of over 150 medical societies and heart charities from 100 low and middleincome countries.
We are a key sponsor of World Heart Day each September and our Becel Flora brands partnership with the WHF means that we work together to increase public awareness of heart disease and its risk factors.. For example, in Greece our Becel pro activ brand teamed up with the Cardiologists Foundation to bring free cholesterol testing, heart checks and health advice direct to peoples homes and school halls on the remote Greek islands of the eastern Mediterranean.
In Sweden, we ran a lecture tour on cholesterol, while in Finland our Foodsolutions business worked with the Finnish Heart Foundation to support national Heart Week with healthy food and recipes.
Regional performance review continued The Americas New launches in the US included the well Highlights The Americas John Rice received Dove Cool Moisture range and the at current rates of exchange President The Americas extension of Axe into male shower gels.
In million 2005 2004 Change Latin America our brands have also been Turnover 13 179 12 296 7.2% very successful in connecting with younger Operating profit 1 719 896 91.9% consumers through Rexona teens and Operating margin 13.0% 7.3% innovative communication for Axe.
million 2005 2004 Change In the US we introduced all Small and Mighty laundry detergent, offering the Turnover 9 010 8 337 8.1% Operating profit 1 175 607 93.5% convenience of the same cleaning power in a smaller bottle.
We have invested in Underlying sales grew by 4%, all coming communication of our Omo laundry $ million 2005 2004 Change from volume gains, broadly based across brands, under the Dirt is Good campaign Turnover 16 395 15 221 7.7% the region, underpinned by a successful in southern Latin America.
In Foods, we strengthened the vitality Change at Consumer demand in the US showed a credentials of our brands in the US with constant 2004 rates sustained recovery.
Our sales in the US grew Promise heart health spread, Rag organic by 3.2%, accelerating through the year, and support for the anti-oxidant properties Turnover 3.4% and we gained market share in aggregate.
AdeS continued to build Underlying sales 4.1% Operating profit 83.6% across Latin America with the distinctive In Brazil and Mexico, a strong first half nutrition benefits of soy with fruit.
was followed by relatively weaker demand in the second half of the year.
We grew The operating margin at current rates in line with our markets in Home and of exchange was 13.0%, 5.7 percentage Personal Care, but saw some share loss points higher than in 2004.
for restructuring, disposal and impairment were 3.4%, which was 5.8 percentage Growth in Personal Care across the region points lower than in the prior year.
Cost has been driven by good consumer response savings offset a higher level of advertising to our initiatives, including vitality innovation and promotions and increased input costs.
This has been There were also gains from the sale of an particularly evident in the deodorants office in the US, in US healthcare plans and and personal wash categories, with strong from currency effects on capital reductions.
double-digit growth for Axe, now the number one deodorant in the US, and for the Dove and Rexona brands.
Another strong Foods performance in the US was driven by further share gains in ice cream, continued good results from the extension of the Country Crock and Bertolli brands into new categories, and from Lipton Ready-to-Drink and speciality teas.
Slim Fast continued to regain share, but in a much contracted weight management Online games and video blogs market and sales were well below the were just two ways that Axe also previous year.
sold as Lynx grabbed the attention of young, testosterone-charged guys to become the top-selling deodorant in the US in 2005.
18 | 19 Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Differentiating our brands through social campaigning The widely-discussed Dove Campaign for Real Beauty has played a key role in highlighting the need for a broader, more Axe has inclusive definition of beauty, beyond the stereotypical super-model image.
demonstrated how With our Dove Self-Esteem Fund, which is a cornerstone of the brands long-term brilliant marketing growth strategy, were going even further.
can propel our Together with partners such as the Girl Scouts in the US and the UKs Eating brands to the top.
Disorder Association, were funding educational Body Talk programmes in schools to help young people develop stronger body-related self-esteem.
By 2008, our aim is to have reached 1 million children.
Reaping the commercial advantages of recycling An exclusive recycling partnership with a major Brazilian retailer, Pao fide Acucar, has not only given Unilevers brands greater in-store prominence at no extra cost but also provided employment to more than 300 local people.
Under the award-winning scheme, a co-operative of local people collects, recycles and sells used packaging deposited at recycling stations outside the retailers supermarkets.
In addition to having Unilevers logo on the stations, our participating brands, Hellmanns, AdeS, Omo and Rexona, appear on point-of-sale information and educational materials, raising their profile.
Regional performance review continued Asia Africa In hair care we launched Dove in Indonesia, Highlights Asia Africa Harish Manwani a Sunsilk summer range across South East at current rates of exchange President Asia, a new variant for Lux Super Rich in Asia Africa million 2005 2004 Change China and a strengthened Sunsilk range Turnover 10 282 9 620 6.9% across several key markets in Africa and Operating profit 1 291 1 040 24.1% the Middle East.
Operating margin 12.6% 10.8% New formulations for our laundry products million 2005 2004 Change include improved whiteness delivery for Surf in Indonesia and Omo for sensitive Turnover 7 030 6 524 7.8% Operating profit 883 706 25.1% skin in Turkey.
We have capitalised on our leading In tea, we have substantially strengthened $ million 2005 2004 Change positions and buoyant consumer demand the Brooke Bond brand in India, while Turnover 12 790 11 911 7.4% across most of the region, growing Lipton is benefiting from strong regional Operating profit 1 606 1 288 24.7% underlying sales by nearly 9%, in a innovations, including Earl Grey and Green competitive environment, and increasing Tea variants in markets such as Turkey Change at market share in key battlegrounds.
constant 2004 rates The growth was broad-based in terms of The operating margin was 12.6%, Turnover 6.9% both categories and geographies.
There were 1.8 percentage points higher than in 2004.
Underlying sales 8.7% Operating profit 24.7% notable performances in all major developing Increased investment in advertising and and emerging countries, including a strong promotions was partly offset by productivity recovery in India with market share gains, gains.
The remaining difference was due to and significant contributions from China, net restructuring, disposal and impairment which was up by over 20%, and from South charges which were insignificant in 2005 East Asia, South Africa, Turkey and Arabia.
compared with a net charge of 2.9% Japan returned to growth.
After a weak in 2004. first half, Australia improved in the second half of the year.
Most of the increase came from volume, but price growth gained momentum through the year, as we moved to selectively recover increased commodity costs, especially in Home Care.
Growth was underpinned by a range of innovations.
In skin care in India, Lux has been strengthened with new soap bars from the global range and the introduction of limited editions.
Innovations in Ponds included a new mud range in China.
Omo strengthened its market leadership in Vietnam, thanks to a locally-inspired educational twist to our Dirt is Good laundry campaign through sport and art activities.
20 | 21 Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Driving extra savings through eco-efficiency Using the same methodology employed Our Dirt is Good in our highly successful Medusa waterconservation programme, we expect to campaign typifies our reduce waste levels for disposal by 30% from our manufacturing sites in Asia Africa ability to bring a great region between 2005 and 2006. global idea to life at a local Under our new Triple R Reduce, Re-use, Recycle programme, the sites are level, with powerful results.
collaborating to share best practice and setting targets to reduce waste levels and disposal costs.
In 2006, well launch a similar initiative, Electra, to reduce energy consumption in Latin America.
Helping to combat HIV AIDS In some regions HIV AIDS poses a serious risk to our employees and communities.
Using the experience gained from dealing with AIDS in our own workplace over the last 25 years, we have worked in partnership to share our learning with international bodies such as the Global Business Coalition on HIV AIDS.
More locally, we work with groups such as the South African Business Coalition on HIV AIDS, with whom we co-developed a well-respected toolkit to help businesses tackle the disease effectively.
In Kenya we have formed a partnership with the German aid agency GTZ to share good practice with the wider community, including schools and smallholder tea growers.
Corporate Governance Unilever constantly keeps its corporate governance arrangements under review.
It is our practice to comply, where practicable, with the highest standards of applicable codes, and respond to developments appropriately.
Structures Legal structure NV and PLC are the two parent companies of the Unilever Group, having separate legal identities and separate stock exchange listings for their shares, which are not interchangeable.
However, with their Group companies, they operate effectively as a single economic entity and constitute a single reporting entity for the purposes of presenting consolidated accounts.
In order to ensure unity of governance and management, they have the same Directors and are linked by a number of co-operation agreements.
In particular, there is the Equalisation Agreement that regulates the mutual rights of the two sets of shareholders, including a formula for paying dividends.
These features mean that all shareholders, whether of NV or PLC, share in the prosperity of the whole business.
Full details of these agreements are contained Sharper pricing, plus in the Annual Report and Accounts 2005 and are also available on www.
com more affordable pack investorcentre corpgovernance sizes, is helping brands like Knorr gain ground in developing and emerging markets.
Knorr launched, in Russia, two affordably priced and packaged products Knorr Cubitos cubes and Knorr seasoning powder sachets.
22 | 23 Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Competing more effectively through our people NV and PLC are holding and service The changes in our structure that the Boards Our peoples creativity, energy and passion companies.
Unilevers businesses are carried are proposing to our shareholders at the drive our business.
One of our ongoing out by their operating companies around AGMs in 2006 are: goals is to help our business leaders the world.
Shares in many Group companies connect to our people around the world are held ultimately by either NV or PLC, To adapt Unilevers constitutional and achieve a shared understanding of our with the largest exception being that the arrangements to allow greater flexibility business objectives and future challenges.
US companies are owned by both.
to allocate assets between both parent In January 2006, at Unilevers leadership companies.
This will ensure that Unilever forum, Group Chief Executive, Patrick Cescau Business structure continues to be able to return capital presented Unilevers change agenda, a set In 2005, we introduced a new, simpler to shareholders and to pay dividends in of common initiatives which will be adopted business structure that comprised three the most efficient manner.
More information regions, The Americas, Asia Africa and on this can be found on page 11.
Further Europe and two categories, Foods, and To simplify the relationship between examples of how our people have helped Home and personal care.
The regions are our NV and PLC shares by establishing create a more competitive Unilever are set responsible for profit, implementing proven one-to-one equivalence in their economic out in the coloured panels on this page brand mixes in their region and focusing interest in the Unilever Group.
on building capabilities with customers.
will create transparency between the The categories are responsible for the quotations of our shares and will be entire brand development process achieved by a split of the NV shares Could it be U?
including innovation, brand positioning and and a consolidation of the PLC shares.
Can you think of 101 new things to do communication and category strategies.
Questions like this, To allow shareholders the right to which appeared in one of our recent Developments in corporate governance nominate candidates to the Boards, recruitment ads, lie at the heart of a new Unilever constantly keeps its corporate taking into account the need to ensure and competitively different strategy to governance arrangements under review.
win the battle for the worlds top talent.
NV and PLC are subject to different We want to attract innovative individuals corporate governance requirements and More information on these proposals can who relish real-life challenges.
Were best practice codes, the most relevant be found in the Notices to these AGMs checking whether they can cut the mustard being those in the Netherlands, the which can be found at www.
com Colmans, naturally by putting eligible United Kingdom and the United States.
investorcentre agms candidates through tough business games, It is Unilevers practice to comply, where among other initiatives.
practicable, with the highest level of The Boards these codes, and respond to developments Unilevers Directors are directors of both NV appropriately.
Taking into account their respective roles as Executive and Non-Executive In 2005 we also announced that we Directors, collectively, they are ultimately would undertake a thorough review of our responsible for the management, general corporate structure to see if any changes affairs, direction and performance of the should be made.
The review was led by the business as a whole.
Chairman, Antony Burgmans, and included Non-Executive Directors, David Simon and Directors are elected by shareholders at the Jeroen van der Veer.
On 19 December 2005 AGMs of NV and PLC and make themselves the conclusions of the structure review fully accountable by submitting themselves were announced.
The Boards decided that for re-election each year.
Our nomination Unilever would retain its current structure, procedures are designed to ensure that with some important changes.
the same people are the Directors of both companies.
Corporate Governance continued The interests of shareholders are protected Directors are chosen for their broad and Growing by helping local because they can remove the Directors relevant experience and international outlook, economies to grow and, ultimately, overrule our nominations.
as well as their independence.
In 2004 Unilevers success depends on the economic As mentioned, proposals will be made to Bertrand Collomb was appointed as Senior health of the countries in which it operates.
the AGMs in 2006 to allow shareholders Independent Director and acted as their In an extensive research project with the right to nominate Directors.
In 2005 he was appointed Oxfam GB and Novib Oxfam Netherlands Vice-Chairman.
Exploring the links between business The Boards currently comprise a Chairman, and poverty reduction: A case study on four Executive Directors and eight Key elements of their role and Indonesia, we examined the impact our independent Non-Executive Directors.
responsibilities as Non-Executive Directors local business has on the countrys They meet at least seven times a year, to include strategy, scrutiny of performance, economic well-being.
consider material matters for NV, PLC and controls, remuneration, succession planning, the Unilever Group.
These matters include, reporting to shareholders, governance and Unilever Indonesia employs about 5 000 for example, results announcements, the compliance.
They also form the Audit direct employees and contract workers.
Annual Report and Accounts, dividends, Committee which is fully compliant with The research found that indirectly, this corporate strategy, annual plans, risks and the applicable rules in the Netherlands, manufacturing activity supports around controls, major business transactions, and UK and the US, the Nomination Committee, 300 000 full-time equivalent jobs in our Board appointments and remuneration.
the Remuneration Committee and the value chain the chain that stretches External Affairs and Corporate Relations from raw materials suppliers, through Since the 2005 AGMs Unilever has had Committee.
The Non-Executive Directors manufacturing to distribution and retailing a separate Chairman and Group Chief meet as a group, without the Executive to consumers.
There is a clear division of Directors present, under the chairmanship the wealth that it spreads around can responsibilities between their roles.
of the Senior Independent Director.
make a significant contribution to In addition they meet before each Board reducing poverty.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for meeting with the Chairman, the Group leadership of the Boards, ensuring their Chief Executive and the Joint Secretaries.
effectiveness and setting their agendas.
He is also responsible for ensuring that A more detailed corporate governance Spreading vitality among our staff the Boards receive accurate, timely and statement, as well as the annual reports During 2005, we encouraged greater clear information.
of the Audit, Nominations, Remuneration vitality among our staff in a programme and External Affairs and Corporate Relations that encompassed the broad concepts of The Group Chief Executive has been Committees, are contained in the Unilever fitness of body and fitness of heart, mind entrusted, within the parameters set out Annual Report and Accounts 2005.
Designed to help them manage in the Articles of Association of NV and Annual Report, our Code of Business their personal energy and resilience in the PLC and the Governance of Unilever, Principles, NVs and PLCs Articles of face of change, as well as strike a good with all the Boards powers, authorities Association and the Governance of Unilever work-life balance, among other objectives, and discretions in relation to the are on our website www.
com the first step of the programme was an operational management of Unilever.
investorcentre corpgovernance The Enjoy Nutrition campaign.
Governance of Unilever contains, amongst The Non-Executive Directors share other things, our rules on Independence This campaign provided staff with important responsibility for the execution of the of Directors and the remits of the Board nutritional information, such as advice Boards duties, taking into account their Committees.
on how to reduce consumption of sugar, specific responsibilities, which are essentially salt and unhealthy fats.
They, in particular, comprise nutritional training for our chefs and the principal external presence in the external suppliers so our canteens and Governance of Unilever, and provide a strong restaurants could offer healthier options.
Our Non-Executive 24 | 25 Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Executive Directors service contracts Details of our compliance with governance Strength in diversity The Executive Directors are full-time requirements in the Netherlands, UK and US Our deep roots in over 100 countries employees of Unilever.
Information about are contained in the Annual Report and worldwide give us a powerful competitive their remuneration can be found on Accounts 2005 and can also be found on our advantage, enabling us to adapt our global pages 32 to 36 of this Annual Review.
com investorcentre brands to local consumers needs.
To help More detailed information can be found us understand their needs more fully, weve in the Report of the Remuneration In the US, we are fully compliant with the introduced a diversity programme so that Committee in the Annual Report and Listing Standards of the New York Stock our staff reflect our consumers diversity Accounts 2005 and on our website at Exchange NYSE applicable to foreign more closely in gender, ethnicity and many www.
Our corporate governance practices other ways.
do not significantly differ from those The current Executive Directors are longfollowed by US companies listed on the Diversity is already very evident.
For serving Unilever executives who can NYSE.
However, the NYSE listing standards example, our top 1 000 managers span reasonably expect, subject to satisfactory for US issuers require that all members 45 nationalities.
With new initiatives, performance, to be employed by Unilever of the Nomination Committee must including local Diversity Boards and tool until retirement.
The Remuneration but not for foreign issuers such as Unilever kits, we hope to encourage diversity Committee takes the view that the be independent.
Our Chairman is not deeper into our organisation.
entitlement of the Executive Directors to independent and he is a member of the the security of twelve months notice of Nomination Committee.
In Unilever we create an environment by termination of employment is in line both embracing our differences that inspires with the practice of many comparable Board changes people to contribute to our business.
We companies and the entitlement of other All the existing Executive Directors are encourage people to be themselves within senior executives within Unilever.
proposed for re-election at the 2006 AGMs.
a framework of shared values and goals.
Their biographical details are shown on This means giving full and fair consideration The Remuneration Committees aim is always pages 26 and 27. to all applicants and continuing development to deal fairly with cases of termination to all employees, regardless of gender, while taking a robust line in minimising All the existing Non-Executive Directors nationality, race, creed, disability, style any compensation.
are proposed for re-election, with the or sexuality.
exception of Bertrand Collomb, Oscar The Executive Directors submit themselves Fanjul and Hilmar Kopper who will be for re-election at the AGMs each year.
Nomination Committee carefully considers Lifting the quality of our each nomination for re-appointment.
In addition four new Non-Executive Directors marketing worldwide are to be proposed for election at the 2006 As One Unilever, we can now take a The Directors stop holding executive office AGMs to replace the three Non-Executive holistic view of our global marketing on ceasing to be Directors.
Those appointed Directors retiring at the 2006 AGMs and capability and manage and deploy our prior to 2004 retire at the latest by the age Claudio Gonzalez who retired at the 2005 talent more strategically.
These are Charles Golden, Executive the new post of Chief Marketing Officer, retire at an age between 60 and 65, as Vice President and CFO of Eli Lilly and we have developed Group-wide programmes decided by either them or Unilever.
Company, Byron Grote, CFO of BP p. l. c. to improve our skills, tools and career paths, Jean-Cyril Spinetta, Chairman CEO of Air with an unprecedented focus on brand Compliance France-KLM S. A. and Kornelis Kees Storm, building and development to support our Unilever is subject to the corporate former Chairman of the Executive Board of new structure.
Via our Marketing Academy, governance requirements in the Netherlands, AEGON N. V. Biographical details for the we have also adopted a more applied, the UK and, as a foreign private issuer in existing Non-Executive Directors are found business-led approach to training, the US.
All of these requirements were on pages 26 and 27.
Those for the new underpinned by common toolsets taken into account when structuring our Non-Executive Directors are contained in and data.
Board arrangements, details of which are the 2006 AGM Notices and on our website set out in the Governance of Unilever.
Jeroen van der Veer Non-Executive Director President Home and personal care Non-Executive Director Nationality: Spanish.
President Home and Nationality: Dutch.
Director, Marsh & personal care since 1 April 2005.
Joined Unilever Chief Executive Royal Dutch Shell plc.
Former Member, McLennan Companies, the London Stock Exchange 1979.
Previous Supervisory Board of fide Nederlandsche Bank 2000-2004. and Acerinox S. A. Non-Executive Director, Lafarge.
posts include: President Home and personal care 1,2 Member, Advisory Board of Sviluppo Italia S. p. A. and Europe 2001. Business Group President, Latin 7.
Antony Burgmans Senior Advisor of the Carlyle Group.
Chairman, Unilever Thai Holdings Chairman Advisor to Goldman Sachs and Trustee of the 1995.
Appointed 2005. International Accounting Standards Committee appointments include: Non-Executive Director, Joined Unilever 1972.
Previous posts include: Chairman, Unilever N. V. and Vice-Chairman, Unilever PLC 1999-2005.
Hilmar Kopper Vice-Chairman, Unilever N. V. 1998. Business Group Non-Executive Vice-Chairman Non-Executive Director President, Ice Cream and Frozen Foods Europe and Nationality: French.
Director, Total S. A. and Atco.
Chairman, Supervisory Board of DaimlerChrysler AG.
Responsible for South European Foods business Member, Advisory Board of Banque fide France.
Non-Executive Director, Xerox Corp. Chairman, 1994-1996.
German Advisory Board of Spencer Stuart.
Member, External appointments include: Member, Supervisory Advisory Board of Sviluppo Italia S. p. A.
Former CEO Board of ABN AMRO Holding N. V. Non-Executive and former Chairman, Supervisory Board of Deutsche Director, BP p. l. c. and Member, International Advisory Bank AG.
Rudy Markham Chief Financial Officer Nationality: British.
Chief Financial Officer since April 2005.
Previous posts include: Financial Director 2000.
Strategy & Technology Director 1998. Business Group President, North East Asia 1996-1998.
External appointments include: Non-Executive Director, Standard Chartered PLC, Member, EAN International Management Board.
Member Unilever Executive UEx 1 Member Nomination Committee 2 Member External Affairs and Corporate Relations Committee 3 Chairman External Affairs and Corporate Relations Committee 4 Chairman Nomination Committee 5 Chairman Remuneration Committee 6 Senior Independent Director 7 Member Audit Committee 8 Chairman Audit Committee 9 Member Remuneration Committee 26 | 27 Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 8 9 10 11 12 13 2,7 3 8.
The Rt Hon The Baroness Chalker of Wallasey 12.
Kees van der Graaf Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director President Europe Nationality: Dutch.
President Europe since Professor at Delft University of Technology.
Chairman, Non-Executive Director, Freeplay Energy Group, April 2005.
Appointed Director Supervisory Boards of Tele Atlas N. V. and N. V. Casema.
Group 5 Pty Ltd and Equator Energy Limited.
Previous posts include: Foods Director Non-Executive Director, Aviva plc and LogicaCMG plc.
International Advisory Board of Lafarge S. A. and 2004, Business Group President, Ice Cream and Chairman and CEO, Koninklijke PTT Nederland KPN Merchant Bridge & Co. Ltd. UK Minister of State at Frozen Foods 2001.
Executive Vice-President, Foods 1988-1998 and Koninklijke KPN N. V. Royal Dutch the Foreign and Commonwealth Office 1986-1997. and Beverages Europe 1998.
Minister for Foreign Trade, Global Ice Cream category 1995.
The Rt Hon The Lord Brittan of Spennithorne include: Board member, ECR Efficient Consumer 2 QC, DL Response and Member, IAB International Advisory 9.
Patrick Cescau Non-Executive Director Board of the City of Rotterdam.
Group Chief Executive Nationality: British.
Group Chief Executive Vice-Chairman, UBS Investment Bank and Chairman, 13.
The Lord Simon of Highbury CBE since April 2005.
Member, International Advisory Non-Executive Director Director 4 May 1999.
Previous posts include: Chairman, Committee of Total.
Member, European Commission Nationality: British.
Unilever PLC and Vice-Chairman, Unilever N. V. 2004- and Vice-President 1989-1999.
Member, UK Non-Executive Director, Suez Group.
Home Secretary 1983-1985 Morgan Stanley International.
UK Government Controller and Deputy Financial Director 1998-1999. and Secretary of State for Trade and Industry 1985-1986.
Group Chief Executive, BP p. l. c. President, Lipton USA 1997-1998.
External appointments include: Non-Executive Director, Pearson plc and Conseiller du Commerce Extrieur fide la France in the Netherlands.
Summary financial statement This summary financial statement Opinion In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is consistent with is a summary of information contained the full annual accounts, the Report of the Directors and the Report in Unilevers financial statements, of the Remuneration Committee of the Unilever Group for the year ended 31 December 2005 and complies with the applicable Report of the Directors and the Report requirements of Section 251 of the United Kingdom Companies Act of the Remuneration Committee as 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
set out in the Unilever Annual Report   LLP and Accounts 2005.
Accountants N. V. Chartered Accountants Rotterdam, and Registered Auditors This statement does not contain sufficient information to allow as full The Netherlands London, United Kingdom an understanding of the results and state of affairs of Unilever, and As auditors of Unilever N. V. As auditors of Unilever PLC of its policies and arrangements concerning Directors remuneration, as would be provided by the full Annual Report and Accounts.
28 February 2006 Copies of the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005, Unilever website which are produced in both English and Dutch, can be accessed The maintenance and integrity of the Unilever website are the directly or ordered through www.
com investorcentre responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors Shareholders may also elect to receive the Annual Report and does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, Accounts for all future years by request to the appropriate share the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may registrars.
Further details are provided on page 37. have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
The auditors have issued unqualified audit reports on the full accounts and the auditable part of the Report of the Remuneration Legislation in the Netherlands and the UK governing the Committee.
The United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 requires preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ the auditors to report if the accounting records are not properly from legislation in other jurisdictions.
kept, if the required information and explanations are not received, or if the Directors Report is inconsistent with the audited consolidated Reporting currency and exchange rates accounts.
Their reports on the full financial statements and the The sterling and US dollar figures shown on pages 16, 18, 20 and 36 auditable part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee have been provided for the convenience of users and do not form contain no such statements.
part of the audited accounts of the Unilever Group.
These figures have been translated from euros using the following rates of exchange: The following Summary Financial Statement should be read together Annual average rates Year-end rates with the narrative set out earlier in this Annual Review which includes, to the extent applicable, any important future developments 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 or post-balance sheet events.
1 0.6837 0.6781 0.6912 0.6864 0.7069 0.7077 1 $ 1.2440 1.2380 1.1260 1.1840 1.3660 1.2610 Auditors statement to the shareholders of Unilever N. V. and The balance sheet is translated at year-end rates and the income statement and cash Unilever PLC flow statement are translated at annual average rates.
We have examined the Summary Financial Statement in euros set out on pages 30 to 31.
Accounting policies Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The accounts have been prepared in accordance with International The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review and Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, including Summary Financial Statement 2005 in accordance with applicable interpretations from the International Financial Reporting Interpretations law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the Committee and the Standing Interpretations Committee and with consistency of the Summary Financial Statement within the Annual Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom Review with the full annual accounts, the Report of the Directors Companies Act 1985. and the Report of the Remuneration Committee, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention as United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made modified by the revaluation of biological assets, financial assets thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the classified as available-for-sale investments and at fair value through Annual Review and consider the implications for our report if we profit or loss, and derivatives.
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies within the Summary Financial Statement.
As a result of the operational and contractual arrangements in place between NV and PLC, they form a single reporting entity for Basis of opinion the purposes of preparing consolidated accounts.
Accordingly, the We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 The accounts of the Unilever Group are presented by both NV and PLC as Auditors Statement on the Summary Financial Statement issued their respective consolidated accounts.
by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
28 | 29 Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 International Financial Reporting Standards Dividends Unilever has adopted International Financial Reporting Standards The Boards have resolved to recommend to the Annual General as adopted by the EU with effect from 1 January 2005, with a Meetings on 8 and 9 May 2006 the declaration of final dividends transition date of 1 January 2004. on the ordinary capital of NV and of PLC respectively in respect of 2005 at the rates shown in the tables below.
The most important changes to our accounting policies are listed below.
These changes also affect the 2004 comparative information As noted above, IAS 10 requires that dividends approved after the in the 2005 consolidated financial statements with the exception balance sheet date are not reflected in the financial statements for of the changes in accounting for financial instruments and the the current reporting period.
As a result, the final 2004 dividends presentation of assets held for sale, which have been applied are reflected in the financial statements for 2005, and the final prospectively from 1 January 2005.
2005 dividends, if approved by shareholders at the AGMs, will be reflected in the financial statements for 2006.
Under IAS 36 we no longer apply systematic amortisation to goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite life, but instead The dividends will be paid in accordance with the timetable set out test these assets for impairment on at least an annual basis.
Under IAS 10 we no longer recognise a liability in any period for NV 2005 2004 dividends which have been proposed but will not be approved Per 0.51 of ordinary capital until after the balance sheet date.
Interim 0.66 0.63 Final 1.32 1.26 Under IAS 12 we recognise certain additional deferred tax balances Total 1.98 1.89 arising on temporary differences between the tax base and the accounting base of balance sheet items.
The most significant of PLC 2005 2004 these relates to intangible assets which were identified at the time Per 1.4p of ordinary capital of the Bestfoods acquisition, on which a deferred tax liability has Interim 6.77p 6.33p been established via reserves.
Final 13.54p 12.82p Total 20.31p 19.15p Deferred tax balances arising in respect of pension assets and liabilities are no longer netted off against pensions balances.
This has led to an overall reclassification of deferred tax balances Dividends for US shareholders in the balance sheet.
Per 0.51 of NV Per 5.6p of PLC ordinary capital ordinary capital Under IAS 38 we capitalise and amortise purchased and internally 2005 2004 2005 2004 developed software where the appropriate criteria are met.
Interim $0.79 $0.80 $0.48 $0.47 Final $1.58 $1.62 $0.94 $0.96 From 1 January 2005 onwards, we present NV preference share capital as a liability rather than as part of equity, in accordance Total $2.37 $2.42 $1.42 $1.43 with IAS 32.
Also from this date we have recognised all derivative Proposed final dividends translated into US dollars at the rate of exchange ruling on financial instruments on the balance sheet at fair value.
We 8 February 2006 1 $1.19, 1 $1.74 rounded to two decimal places.
These measure certain non-derivative financial assets at fair value and dividends will be paid using the exchange rates ruling on 8 May 2006 for NV and 9 May 2006 for PLC.
apply hedge accounting methodology to all significant qualifying hedging relationships.
Summary information under US GAAP in US$ unaudited In the case of retirement benefits, the amendments to IAS 19 Total operations: 2005 2004 2003 mean that the impact on Unilever has been restricted to certain Net income attributable to shareholders million 3 292 3 325 4 287 valuation differences which did not have a significant impact Combined net income per share on our reported numbers.
Per 0.51 of ordinary capital 3.38 3.42 4.39 Per 1.4p of ordinary capital 0.51 0.51 0.66 For further details of these and other reporting changes Combined diluted net income per share which have applied for 2005, please refer to our website at Per 0.51 of ordinary capital 3.27 3.28 4.27 www.
com investorcentre Per 1.4p of ordinary capital 0.49 0.49 0.64 Shareholders equity million 17 751 19 141 16 834 Turnover definition Until 31 December 2004 promotional couponing and trade communication costs were included in the cost of advertising The Summary Financial Statement of Unilever has been prepared and promotions.
From 1 January 2005 these costs are deducted under accounting principles which differ in certain respects from from turnover and treated as part of the price element in the those generally accepted in the US.
variance analysis of sales growth, together with other trade promotion costs which are already deducted from turnover.
Key differences arise from the treatment of goodwill and certain Comparatives have been restated to reflect this change.
intangible assets in prior years, derivative financial instruments, pensions and the recognition of certain restructuring costs and impairments.
Further details of significant differences are given in the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005.
These changes have had an important impact on It is the objective of Unilevers remuneration policy for Executive the work of the Remuneration Committee.
Directors to drive performance and to set reward in support of achievement of its goals.
Therefore it is important to recruit key The most significant change was the ending of the dual executives who can drive the business forward and achieve the chairmanship and the creation of the single chief executive role.
This is essential to the successful At the AGMs in May 2005 Antony Burgmans was appointed to leadership and effective management of Unilever as a major global the new role of non-executive Chairman and Patrick Cescau took company.
To meet this objective the Remuneration Committee on the new role of Group Chief Executive.
This change improved follows three key principles, supported by shareholders: our governance and organisational effectiveness.
A significant proportion of the Executive Directors total reward At the AGMs in May 2005 three Executive Directors retired is linked to a number of key measures of company performance after long and distinguished careers with Unilever.
Clive Butler, to create alignment with the strategy and business priorities: Keki Dadiseth and Andr van Heemstra all agreed to retire to The reward policy is benchmarked regularly against arrangements allow the creation of a new executive team.
Each agreed to retire of other global companies based in Europe.
This ensures that at the age of 60.
Unilever continued to pay their base salary and Executive Directors reward levels remain competitive: and benefits, in lieu of notice, for a maximum of one year, fulfilling its contractual obligations.
An internal comparison is made with the reward arrangements for other senior executives within Unilever to support consistent Anthony Burgmans stepped down as Executive Director at the application of Unilevers executive reward policies.
2005 AGMs and assumed the new role of Non-Executive Chairman.
In fulfilment of contractual obligations he continues to receive his Each element of the Executive Directors reward package focuses on salary and benefits until June 2006.
However, he is no longer supporting different business objectives.
The Unilever reward policy entitled to any annual or long-term incentives.
After June 2006, table on page 33 provides an overview of all the elements of reward he will receive a fee for his services as Chairman.
excluding pension, the key drivers, the resulting performance measures and indicative levels.
In setting targets for the performance Given the new Board structure and Unilevers longer-term strategy, measures, the Committee is guided by what needs to happen to the Committee reviewed the existing reward packages for each of drive underlying performance and this is reflected in the short-and the current Executive Directors during the year.
Base salaries have long-term performance targets.
been adjusted to reflect the new roles and responsibilities in line with the market.
The revised salary levels are set out on page 34.
Depending on the level of performance, the variable component could vary between 0 and around 80% of the total reward Annual incentives criteria for 2005 were underlying sales growth, package excluding pensions.
trading contribution Unilevers version of economic value added and individual performance targets.
Taking into account the Some of the Executive Directors serve as non-executive directors actual delivery of sales growth and trading contribution in 2005, on the Boards of other companies.
Unilever requires that all the annual incentive Executive Directors earned for 2005 were remuneration and fees earned from outside directorships roughly half maximum levels.
are paid directly to Unilever.
No awards vested in 2005 for Executive Directors under the TSR Base salary plan as Unilevers TSR performance over the period 2002-2004 The Remuneration Committee reviews base salary levels annually, fell short of requirements.
taking into account external benchmarks in the context of company and individual performance.
Following shareholder approval, we operated the Global Performance Share Plan for the first time.
Its clearly defined performance criteria focus management on top-line growth and cash flow generation.
For 2006, we retained the same criteria as in 2005 for annual incentive, and we reviewed individual performance targets to ensure these reflect, next to corporate performance, each Executive Directors responsibility for delivering specific growth objectives.
All this was done to create the greatest possible alignment between the various elements of the remuneration package and Unilevers longer-term strategy.
Finally, we have revised the Report of Remuneration Committee to improve its transparency in respect of the arrangements.
Bertrand Collomb Chairman of the Remuneration Committee David Simon Jeroen van der Veer 32 | 33 Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Unilever reward policy table Element Payment Indicative Levels at face Plan Objectives Key Drivers Performance Measures Method value as % of base pay Base Salary Cash Market Competitive Attraction and retention Individual performance of key executives Annual Incentive Cash 75% ED: 60% on target Delivery of trading contribution Unilevers Trading contribution ED: 40%, GCE: 50% Shares 25% range of 0 100% primary internal measure of an added economic value and top-line growth targets Underlying sales growth ED: 40%, GCE: 50% GCE: 90% on target range of 0 150% Individual responsibility for key Unilever Individual contribution to Unilever business business objectives strategy ED: 20%, GCE: 50% Global Shares Grant level: c. 25% Ungeared free cash flow as the basic driver Ungeared free cash flow 50% Performance of Unilever shareholder returns Share Plan Vesting level: 0 200% Underlying sales growth 50% of grant Top-line growth as essential to Unilevers long-term value creation Total Shareholder Shares Grant level: c. 60% Total Shareholder Return at upper half of peer Relative Total Shareholder Return Return group with 20 other companies Vesting level: 0 200% of grant Share Matching Shares 25% of annual incentive Alignment with shareholders interests Plan paid GCE Group Chief Executive ED Executive Director Annual incentive Long-term incentives The annual incentive arrangement, rewards Executive Directors In 2005 shareholders also approved the replacement of the for the delivery of trading contribution Unilevers primary Executive Option Plan with the Unilever Global Performance Share internal measure of added economic value and top-line growth Plan.
The long-term incentives for Executive Directors now consist targets, as well as for their individual contribution to Unilevers of three elements, all of which are delivered in shares: business strategy.
Global Performance Share Plan In 2005, shareholders approved changes to the corporate Total Shareholder Return TSR Long-Term Incentive Plan performance criteria for the annual incentive arrangement, to Share Matching Plan linked to the annual incentive ensure continuing alignment with business priorities, and a maximum opportunity for the Group Chief Executive to 150% Executive Directors are required to demonstrate a significant of base salary.
The maximum level is only payable in the case of personal shareholding commitment to Unilever.
Within five years exceptional performance.
The annual incentive opportunity for of appointment, they are expected to hold shares worth 150% of other Executive Directors remains between 0 and 100%.
This reinforces the link between the Executive Directors and other shareholders.
The performance criteria for the annual incentive are now: Trading contribution maximum 40%, for Group Chief Executive Global Performance Share Plan GPSP maximum 50%, of base salary.
This is Unilevers primary internal Under the GPSP, conditional rights over shares in NV or PLC are measure of added economic value.
Increases reflect the combined awarded annually to Executive Directors.
For Executive Directors impact of top-line growth, margin improvement and capital the value of the grant of conditional shares will not exceed 50% efficiency gains.
It is well aligned with our objective of a of base salary.
The number of shares actually received at the end progressive improvement in return on invested capital and of the performance period of three years depends on the with shareholder value creation.
satisfaction of the performance targets.
Underlying sales growth maximum 40%, for Group Chief The performance measures for vesting are underlying sales growth Executive maximum 50%, of base salary.
This focuses on the for 50% of the award and ungeared free cash flow for 50% organic growth of Unilevers turnover.
These are key performance measures in Unilevers Individual business targets maximum 20%, for Group Chief external reporting.
Underlying sales growth focuses on the organic Executive 50%, of base salary.
The individual performance growth of Unilevers turnover.
Ungeared free cash flow expresses targets are tailored to each individuals responsibilities to deliver the translation of profit into cash and thus longer-term certain business objectives supporting the strategy.
contributions are subject to robust measures and targets to ensure objectivity of achievement.
In respect of performance targets, there is a minimum and a maximum performance range for each of the two measures and The annual incentive is calculated at the end of each financial year associated vesting levels.
Each year, the Remuneration Committee and payable in the following March.
Part of the annual incentive reviews the performance targets by taking account of market 25% is delivered to the Executive Directors in the form of shares in conditions and internal financial planning.
The Remuneration NV and PLC which are matched by a conditional award of matching Committee conducted a review of these targets at the start of shares, as further described under long-term incentives below.
2006 to ensure that those attaching to awards to be made in 2006 were appropriate and challenging.
Long-term three years Short-term one year Summary financial statement continued TSR Long-Term Incentive Plan Arrangements for current Executive Directors in 2005 The TSR plan rewards Executive Directors for creating more value for Unilevers shareholders when compared with the investment Base salary returns generated by competitors.
Following the AGMs in May 2005, the number of Executive Directors and their responsibilities changed substantially.
The Committee Under this plan conditional rights over shares in NV and PLC are therefore reviewed base salary levels in light of these changes.
The awarded annually to Executive Directors.
salary levels were benchmarked against those paid in other major global companies based in Europe, excluding companies in the The current level of conditional annual awards is as follows: financial sector.
The increases for 2005 reflect the change in the composition and the responsibilities of the Executive Directors, Group Chief Executive: Shares in NV and PLC to the combined market levels as well as individual and company performance.
The value of 800 000: and total salary figure compared with that for last year has reduced Other Executive Directors: Shares in NV and PLC to the significantly as a consequence of the reduction in the number of combined value of 500 000.
The current annual base salary levels for the Executive Directors are set out below: Vesting is subject to Unilevers relative TSR performance.
TSR Executive Director Current Annual Base Salary Levels measures the returns received by a shareholder, capturing both the increase in share price and the value of dividend income Based in the UK P J Cescau 935 000 assuming dividends are re-invested.
Unilevers TSR performance is compared with a peer group of competitors over a three-year R D Kugler 570 000 performance period.
The TSR results are compared on a single R H P Markham 645 000 reference currency basis.
Based in the Netherlands C J van der Graaf 760 000 No shares will vest if Unilever is ranked below position 11 of the TSR ranking table over the three-year period.
Between 25% and 200% of the shares will vest if Unilever is ranked in the top half Annual incentive of the table.
The annual incentive awards for 2005 were subject to achievement of Underlying Sales Growth and Trading Contribution targets Share Matching Plan linked to the annual incentive in combination with individual key strategic business targets.
The Share Matching Plan enhances the alignment with shareholders The Committee measured the results against the targets and interests and supports the retention of key executives.
In addition, determined the annual incentive amounts for 2005. the necessity to hold the shares for a minimum period of three years supports the shareholding requirements set out on page 33.
Long-term incentives Global Performance Share Plan As mentioned earlier, the Executive Directors receive 25% of the The first award under this new plan was made to Executive annual incentive in the form of NV and PLC shares.
The performance period of this award matched with an equivalent number of matching shares.
The is 1 January 2005 to 31 December 2007 and therefore no matching shares will vest after three years provided that the award vested in 2005. underlying shares have been retained during this period and the Executive Director has not resigned or been dismissed.
TSR Plan Vesting of the conditional award made in 2002 was based The Remuneration Committee considers that there is no need for on the TSR performance of Unilever when ranked against further performance conditions on the vesting of the matching its defined peer group with competitors over the three-year shares because the number of shares is directly linked to the performance period ended 31 December 2004.
For this period, annual incentive which is itself subject to demanding performance Unilever was ranked number 13 in the peer group and therefore conditions.
In addition, during the three-year vesting period the no vesting occurred for this award in March 2005.
Therefore share price of NV and PLC will be influenced by the performance these shares lapsed.
of Unilever which, in turn, will affect the ultimate value of the matching shares on vesting.
Share Matching Plan The matching shares originally granted in 2000 and 2002 on a Executive Directors pensions conditional basis, vested in 2005 subject to fulfillment of the Executive Directors are provided with a defined benefit final salary retention conditions.
pension, which is consistent with the pension provision for other Unilever Netherlands and UK employees.
The Executive Directors Executive Options arrangement provides a pension of a maximum of two-thirds of The grants of executive share options made in 2002 became final pensionable pay if they retire at age 60 or later.
As the size of the 2002 grants was based on Unilevers EPS performance, the options at vesting As stated in last years report, the Remuneration Committee decided were subject to no further conditions.
that annual incentive would no longer be part of pensionable pay for new Executive Directors appointed as from 2005.
For Executive Directors appointed prior to 2005, annual incentive is pensionable up to a maximum of 20% of base salary.
34 | 35 Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Pensions Five-Year Historical TSR Performance In response to changes in the pension tax regimes in both the Growth in the Value of a Hypothetical 100 Holding Over Five Years FTSE 100 Comparison Based on 30 Trading Day Average Values Netherlands and the UK: Unilever FTSE 100 The projected value of the Netherlands-based Executive Directors Dec 2000 Dec 2001 Dec 2002 Dec 2003 Dec 2004 Dec 2005 final benefit has been converted from a reasonable expectation 130 to a vested benefit, consistent with the treatment adopted for 120 other Netherlands senior executives with similar expectations.
110 100 UK-based Executive Directors and other potentially affected 90 employees have been informed that the company will offer 80 them the option of capping their benefit provided by the Unilever 70 UK Pension Fund at their personal Lifetime Allowance and 60 receiving the balance of their benefit directly from the company.
50 For Executive Directors appointed since 2005 the annual incentive no longer forms part of the pensionable salary.
Growth in the Value of a Hypothetical Investment Over Five Years AEX Comparison Based on 30 Day Average Values Unilever Arrangements for former Executive Directors in 2005 AEX Index At the AGMs in May 2005, Antony Burgmans stepped down Dec 2000 Dec 2001 Dec 2002 Dec 2003 Dec 2004 Dec 2005 130 as Executive Director of the Boards of Unilever N. V. and PLC and was appointed in a new role as Non-Executive Chairman of both 120 Boards.
In line with the contracts provisions, Mr Burgmans is 110 receiving salary and benefits until June 2006.
From June 2006 100 he will start to receive a Chairmans fee.
While he has received 90 a pro-rated annual incentive payment for his service to the 2005 80 AGMs, he has no further annual incentive entitlements.
Equally, 70 he received no long-term incentive awards after the AGMs in 60 May 2005 and will receive no further new awards.
His existing 50 long-term incentives are subject to relevant provisions in the plan rules.
Mr Burgmans retirement date will be June 2006, then being 59, and from this date he will receive a full pension Non-Executive Directors as if he had retired at 60.
The Non-Executive Directors receive fees and where appropriate an attendance allowance from both NV and PLC.
The current Messrs Butler, Dadiseth and Van Heemstra retired as Executive members receive no other remuneration in respect of their Directors at the AGMs in May 2005.
Each has received a pro-rated Non-Executive duties from either NV or PLC such as incentives annual incentive payment for service to the 2005 AGMs.
received any new long-term incentive awards in 2005 and their existing long-term incentives are subject to relevant provisions in The level of their fees reflects their commitment and contribution the plan rules.
Unilever is respecting its contractual obligations to the companies.
The levels were last reviewed in 2004 against fees and has provided for each director to be paid their base salary payable by comparable companies in the UK and continental Europe, and benefits for the maximum period of up to one year.
Mr Butler to ensure Unilevers levels reflected current market practice and their and Mr Dadiseth have received their payments as lump sums.
The current fee levels are set Mr Van Heemstra is receiving his payments on a monthly basis.
out below: They receive their full pension benefits at 60 as if they had retired Fees payable Fees payable on this date.
Non-Executive Role by NV by PLC Other items Senior Independent Director 48 000 36 000 Unilevers share performance relative to broad-based Committee Chairman 38 000 29 000 equity indices Other Non-Executive Directors 32 000 24 000 The UK Companies Act Schedule 7A requires us to show Unilevers relative share performance, based on TSR, against a holding of shares in a broad-based equity index for the last five years.
The Remuneration Committee has decided to show Unilevers performance against two indices, namely the FTSE 100 Index London and the Euronext AEX index Amsterdam, as these are the most generally used indices in the Netherlands and the UK, where we have our principal listings.
Summary financial statement continued Remuneration for individual Executive Directors 2005 Executive Directors total remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2005 including other income arising from long-term incentives were 12 235 000 2004: 21 329 000.
The equivalent totals in pounds sterling were 8 365 000 2004: 14 463 000.
The details for each Executive Director for 2005 are set out in the table below.
For convenience the amounts are shown both in euros and [in brackets] in pounds sterling.
It also includes the annual incentive both the cash element and the element paid in shares payable in March 2006 relating to the performance year 2005.
The value of the matching shares conditionally awarded in 2006 in respect of the performance year 2005 is not included as these form part of the long-term incentives and the value will be reported when they vest in 2009.
2 Other income includes the gains realised in 2005 following the exercise of share options granted in earlier years.
It also includes the value of the matching shares vested in 2005, which were originally granted in 2000 and 2002.
No vesting occurred in 2005 with respect to the TSR LTIP shares granted in 2002 performance period 2002 to 2004 as Unilever was ranked 13 in the peer group and therefore no value is reported here.
3 Allowances include the following payments: allowances in lieu of company car, entertaining allowance, blind trust fees and allowance to compensate for loss of net income suffered because part of their income was paid in NL.
All allowances are taxable in the country of residence of the Executive Director concerned apart from the entertaining allowance which is currently tax free in NL.
For the former Executive Directors who stepped down at the AGMs in 2005 the allowance figures includes the contractual entitlements.
4 Includes the value of the following benefits in kind: benefits for company car, housing, medical insurance benefit and private use chauffeur driven cars.
Included are the taxable benefits which are taxable in the country of residence of the Executive Director 5 Part of the annual incentive is paid in the form of shares in NV and PLC.
The value of these shares is included in the figures of the annual incentive shown above.
In addition to these shares, each Executive Director is awarded, on a conditional basis an equivalent number of matching shares which are not included above.
The value of these matching shares, will be reported when they vest in 2009.
6 Group Chief Executive from AGMs 2005.
7 Appointed as an Executive Director on 11 May 2005.
Remuneration shown above covers the period from date of appointment.
Base salary reflects payments up until May 2005.
Under Allowance and other payments, following contractual provisions, received base salary between June-December 2005 828 000 : June to December benefits 18 000 : allowances 16 000.
From June 2006, will receive a Chairmanship fee.
Under Allowance and other payments, the total amount received as a lump sum payment of 775 000 comprising period June 2005 June 2006 in accordance with contractual provisions.
Under Allowance and other payments, the total amount received as a lump sum payment of 557 000 comprising period June 2005 December 2005 in accordance with contractual provisions.
Under Allowance and other payments, the total amount received as monthly payments was 426 000 comprising salary June 2005 December 2005, also for June 2005 December 2005 7 000 benefits and allowances 3 000 in accordance with contractual provisions.
Figures have been translated into euros using the following exchange rate: 1 0.6837.
The Summary Financial Statement was approved by the Boards of Directors on 28 February 2006.
A Burgmans P Cescau Chairman Group Chief Executive 36 | 37 Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Shareholder information Financial calendar Quarterly results announcements These are available on our website at www.
com investorcentre Annual General Meetings in English, with figures in euros, sterling or US dollars.
In Dutch they NV 9.30 am Monday 8 May 2006 Rotterdam are available at www.
nl onsbedrijf beleggers PLC 11.00 am Tuesday 9 May 2006 London UK capital gains tax Announcements of results The market value of PLC 1.4p ordinary shares at 31 March 1982 would have been 34.58p per share.
Since 1982, PLC ordinary shares First Quarter 4 May 2006 have been sub-divided on two occasions and consolidated once.
First Half Year 3 August 2006 Third Quarter 2 November 2006 Firstly, with effect on 26 June 1987, the 25p shares were split into Final for Year provisional 8 February 2007 five shares of 5p each.
Secondly, with effect on 13 October 1997, the 5p shares were split into four shares of 1.25p each.
Lastly, with Dividends on ordinary capital effect on 10 May 1999, the shares were consolidated by replacing every 112 shares of 1.25p each with 100 shares of 1.4p each.
Final for 2005 announced 9 February 2006 and to be declared 8 May 2006 for NV and 9 May 2006 for PLC Listing details Ex-Dividend Record Payment NV The shares or certificates depositary receipts of NV are listed on Date Date Date the stock exchanges in Amsterdam, New York, Frankfurt and Zrich.
NV 10 May 2006 09 May 2006 12 June 2006 PLC 17 May 2006 19 May 2006 12 June 2006 PLC The shares of PLC are listed on the London Stock Exchange NV New York Shares 10 May 2006 12 May 2006 12 June 2006 and, as American Depositary Receipts each evidencing four ordinary PLC ADRs 17 May 2006 19 May 2006 12 June 2006 shares of 1.4p each, in New York.
Interim for 2006 to be announced 2 November 2006 Share registration Ex-Dividend Record Payment Netherlands Date Date Date N. V. Algemeen Nederlands NV 03 Nov 2006 02 Nov 2006 04 Dec 2006 Trustkantoor ANT PLC 08 Nov 2006 10 Nov 2006 04 Dec 2006 PO Box 11063 NV New York Shares 03 Nov 2006 07 Nov 2006 04 Dec 2006 PLC ADRs 08 Nov 2006 10 Nov 2006 04 Dec 2006 1001 GB Amsterdam Cumulative preference shares NV Telephone 31 0 20 522 2555 Telefax 31 0 20 522 2500 Email registers ant-trust.
nl @ Announced Ex-Dividend Record Payment Date Date Date Date UK 4% 08 Dec 2006 11 Dec 2006 08 Dec 2006 02 Jan 2007 Computershare Investor Services PLC 6% and 7% 08 Sep 2006 11 Sep 2006 08 Sep 2006 02 Oct 2006 PO Box 82 The Pavilions Unilever website Bridgwater Road Shareholders are encouraged to visit our website, www.
com Bristol BS99 7NH which has a wealth of information about the Unilever Group.
There is a section designed specifically for investors at Telephone 44 0 870 600 3977 www.
com investorcentre Telefax 44 0 870 703 6119 Website www.
com shareholderservices Electronic communications Shareholders of Unilever PLC can elect not to receive paper copies of USA the Annual Review and other shareholder documents by registering Citibank Shareholder Services at www.
com shareholderservices Shareholders will then PO Box 43077 be alerted by email to view these documents on our website.
Providence RI 02940-3077 NV shareholders participating in the Shareholders Communication Toll free phone inside US 888 502 6356 Channel will be able to appoint a proxy electronically to vote on Toll phone outside US 1 816 843 4281 their behalf at the AGM in 2006.
com adr Designed and produced by Addison Corporate Marketing Board photography by Jaap van den Beukel Product photography by The Pack Shot Company Main photography by Igor Emmerich Printed by St Ives Westerham Press under ISO 14001 environmental accreditation.
All paper used in the production of this report is recyclable and bio degradable and contains 50% recovered fibre.
Unilever N. V. Weena 455, PO Box 760 3000 DK Rotterdam The Netherlands T 31 0 10 217 4000 F 31 0 10 217 4798 Unilever PLC PO Box 68, Unilever House Blackfriars, London EC4P 4BQ United Kingdom T 44 0 20 7822 5252 F 44 0 20 7822 5951 Unilever PLC registered office Unilever PLC Port Sunlight Wirral Merseyside CH62 4ZD United Kingdom www.
