Company accounts Auditors report Unilever PLC Independent auditors report to the shareholders of Basis of audit opinion Unilever PLC on the parent company accounts We conducted our audit in accordance with International We have audited the parent company accounts of Unilever PLC Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of balance sheet and the related notes set out on pages 175 to 177. evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent These parent company accounts have been prepared under the company accounts and the information that is described as accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the having been audited in the Report of the Remuneration information that is described as having been audited in the Report Committee.
It also includes an assessment of the significant of the Remuneration Committee.
estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent company accounts, and of whether the We have reported separately on the consolidated accounts of the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys Unilever Group for the year ended 31 December 2005. circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the As described on page 74 the Directors responsibilities for information and explanations which we considered necessary in preparing the parent company accounts in accordance with order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable applicable United Kingdom law and United Kingdom accounting assurance that the parent company accounts and the information standards are set out in the Statement of Directors that is described as having been audited in the Report of the Responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing Remuneration Committee are free from material misstatement, the Annual Report, including the Report of the Remuneration whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company accounts and Our responsibility is to audit the parent company accounts and the information that is described as having been audited in the the information that is described as having been audited in the Report of the Remuneration Committee.
Report of the Remuneration Committee in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Opinion Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the In our opinion: opinion, has been prepared for and only for the shareholders of Unilever PLC as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the the parent company accounts give a true and fair view, in Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in accordance with United Kingdom accounting standards, of the giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2005: and purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by the parent company accounts and the information that is our prior consent in writing.
described as having been audited in the Report of the Remuneration Committee have been properly prepared in We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company accordance with the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985. accounts give a true and fair view and whether the parent company accounts and the information that is described as having been audited in the Report of the Remuneration Committee have been properly prepared in accordance with the 28 February 2006 United Kingdom Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Report of the Directors is not consistent with  LLP the parent company accounts, if the company has not kept Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors proper accounting records, if we have not received all the London, United Kingdom information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company accounts.
The other information comprises only the Report of the Directors and the Shareholder information.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company accounts.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
174 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Company accounts Unilever PLC Balance sheet as at 31 December million million 2005 2004 Restated Fixed assets Intangible assets 28 31 Fixed investments 2 237 2 237 Current assets Debtors Debtors due within one year 226 227 Debtors due after more than one year 70 65 Total current assets 296 292 Creditors due within one year 1 328 1 681 Net current liabilities 1 032 1 389 Total assets less current liabilities 1 233 879 Provision for liabilities and charges excluding pensions and similar obligations 6 10 Capital and reserves 1 227 869 Called up share capital 24 41 41 Share premium account 94 94 Capital redemption reserve 11 11 Other reserves 385 268 profit retained 1 466 991 Total capital employed 1 233 879 As permitted by Section 230 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985, an entity profit and loss account is not included as part of the published company accounts for PLC.
On behalf of the Board of Directors A Burgmans Chairman P Cescau Group Chief Executive 28 February 2006 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 175 Financial Statements
