Financial review continued Pensions investment strategy Unilevers TSR target is to be in the top third of a reference group The Groups investment strategy in respect of its funded including 20 other international consumer goods companies on a pension plans is implemented within the framework of the three-year rolling basis.
At the end of 2004 we were positioned various statutory requirements of the territories where the 13th, and at the end of 2005 the ranking was 14th.
The Group has developed policy guidelines for following companies formed the peer group of comparative the allocation of assets to different classes with the objective of companies: controlling risk and maintaining the right balance between risk and long-term returns in order to limit the cost to the company of Altria Kao the benets provided.
To achieve this, investments are well Avon Lion diversied, such that the failure of any single investment would Beiersdorf LOral not have a material impact on the overall level of assets.
The Cadbury Schweppes Nestl plans invest the largest proportion of the assets in equities, which Clorox Orkla the Group believes offer the best returns over the long term Coca-Cola Pepsico commensurate with an acceptable level of risk.
The Group also Colgate Procter & Gamble keeps a proportion of assets invested in property, bonds and cash.
Danone Reckitt Benckiser Most assets are managed by a number of external fund managers Gillette Sara Lee with a small proportion managed in-house.
In December 2005, Heinz Shiseido Unilever launched a pooled investment vehicle Univest which will offer its pension plans around the world a simplied investment From 2006, Kraft will replace Altria and Kimberly-Clark will solution to implement their strategic asset allocation models replace Gillette in the peer group.
The aim is to provide a high quality, well Unilevers position relative to the TSR reference group diversied risk controlled solution.
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Total Shareholder Return Total Shareholder Return TSR measures the returns received by a shareholder, capturing both the increase in share price and the value of dividend income assuming dividends are re-invested.
7 Unilevers TSR performance is compared with a peer group of competitors over a three-year rolling performance period.
This period is sensitive enough to reect changes but long enough to 14 smooth out short-term volatility.
The return is expressed in US dollars, based on the equivalent US dollar share price for NV and PLC.
US dollars were chosen to facilitate comparison with companies in Unilevers chosen reference group.
The choice of 21 currency affects the absolute TSR but not the relative ranking.
The reference group, including Unilever, consists of 21 companies.
Unilevers position is based on TSR over a three-year rolling period.
significant changes after the balance sheet date We announced on 9 February 2006 our decision to put the majority of the frozen foods businesses in Europe up for sale.
The intended sale includes the frozen food portfolio under the Iglo and Birds Eye brands in Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain and the United Kingdom.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 25 Report of the Directors
