Taxation for US residents holding shares in NV The following notes are provided for guidance.
US residents may be governed by the Tax Regulation for the Kingdom of the should consult their local tax advisers, particularly in connection Netherlands or by the tax convention, if any, between the with potential liability to pay US taxes on disposal, lifetime gift or Netherlands and your country of residence.
United States taxation on dividends Netherlands taxation on dividends If you are a United States shareholder, the dividend including the Dividends of companies in the Netherlands are in principle subject withheld amount up to the amount of our earnings and profits to dividend withholding tax of 25%.
Where a shareholder is for United States Federal income tax purposes will be ordinary entitled to the benets of the current Income Tax Convention dividend income.
Dividends received by an individual during the Convention concluded on 18 December 1992 between the taxable years before 2009 will be taxed at a maximum rate of United States and the Netherlands, when dividends are paid by 15%, provided the individual has held the shares for more than NV to: 60 days during the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date, that NV is a qualied foreign corporation and a United States resident: that certain other conditions are satisfied.
NV is a qualied foreign corporation for this purpose.
Dividends received by an individual a corporation organised under the laws of the United States for taxable years after 2008 will be subject to tax at ordinary or any territory of it having no permanent establishment in the income rates.
The dividends are not eligible for the dividends Netherlands of which such shares form a part of the business received deduction allowed to corporations.
property: or For US foreign tax credit purposes, the dividend is foreign source any other legal person subject to United States Federal income income, and the Netherlands withholding tax is a foreign income tax with respect to its worldwide income, having no permanent tax that is eligible for credit against the shareholders United establishment in the Netherlands of which such shares form a States income taxes.
However, the rules governing the US foreign part of the business property: tax credit are complex, and additional limitations on the credit apply to individuals receiving dividends eligible for the 15% these dividends qualify for a reduction of Netherlands withholding maximum tax rate on dividends described above.
tax on dividends from 25% to 15% to 5% if the beneficial owner is a company which directly holds at least 10% of the Any portion of the dividend that exceeds our United States voting power of NV shares and to 0% if the beneficial owner is earnings and profits is subject to different rules.
This portion is a a qualied Exempt Organisation as dened in Article 36 of the tax free return of capital to the extent of your basis in our shares, Convention.
and thereafter is treated as a gain on a disposition of the shares.
Where a United States resident or corporation has a permanent Under a provision of the Netherlands Dividend Tax Act, NV establishment in the Netherlands, which has shares in NV forming is entitled to a credit up to a maximum of 3% of the gross part of its business property, dividends it receives on those shares dividend from which dividend tax is withheld against the amount are included in that establishments profit.
They are subject to of dividend tax withheld before remittance to the Netherlands tax the Netherlands income tax or corporation tax, as appropriate, authorities.
For dividends paid on or after 1 January 1995, the and the Netherlands tax on dividends will generally be applied United States tax authority may take the position that the at the full rate of 25%.
This tax will be treated as foreign income Netherlands withholding tax eligible for credit should be tax eligible for credit against the shareholders United States limited accordingly.
Netherlands taxation on capital gains Under the Convention, qualifying United States organisations Under the Convention, if you are a United States resident or that are generally exempt from United States taxes and that are corporation and you have capital gains on the sale of shares of a constituted and operated exclusively to administer or provide Netherlands company, these are generally not subject to taxation pension, retirement or other employee benets may be exempt by the Netherlands.
An exception to this rule generally applies if at source from withholding tax on dividends received from a you have a permanent establishment in the Netherlands and the Netherlands corporation.
An agreement published by the US capital gain is derived from the sale of shares which form part of Internal Revenue Service on 20 April 2000 in release IR-INT-2000-9 that permanent establishments business property.
between the United States and the Netherlands tax authorities describes the eligibility of these US organisations for benets Netherlands succession duty and gift taxes under the Convention.
Under the Estate and Inheritance Tax Convention between the United States and the Netherlands of 15 July 1969, United States A United States trust, company or organisation that is operated individual residents who are not Dutch citizens who have shares exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, educational or public will generally not be subject to succession duty in the Netherlands purposes, is now subject to an initial 25% withholding tax rate.
on the individuals death, unless the shares are part of the Such an exempt organisation is entitled to reclaim from the business property of a permanent establishment situated in Netherlands Tax Authorities a refund of the Netherlands dividend the Netherlands.
tax, if and to the extent that it is exempt from United States Federal Income Tax and it would be exempt from tax in the A gift of shares of a Netherlands company by a person who is not Netherlands if it were organised and carried on all its activities a resident or a deemed resident of the Netherlands is generally there.
not subject to Netherlands gift tax.
A non-resident Netherlands citizen, however, is still treated as a resident of the Netherlands If you are an NV shareholder resident in any country other than for gift tax purposes for ten years and any other non-resident the United States or the Netherlands, any exemption from, or person for one year after leaving the Netherlands.
reduction or refund of, the Netherlands dividend withholding tax Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 185 Shareholder information
