Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group 1 Accounting information and policies Unilever and liabilities are translated at annual average rates of exchange.
The The two parent companies, NV and PLC, together with their group balance sheet, other than the ordinary share capital of NV and PLC, is companies, operate as a single economic entity the Unilever Group, translated at year-end rates of exchange.
In the case of hyperalso referred to as Unilever or the Group.
NV and PLC have the same inationary economies, which are those in which ination exceeds Directors and are linked by a series of agreements, including an 100% cumulatively over a three-year period, the accounts are Equalisation Agreement, which are designed so that the position of adjusted to reect current price levels and remove the inuences of the shareholders of both companies is as nearly as possible the same ination before being translated.
as if they held shares in a single company.
The ordinary share capital of NV and PLC is translated at the rate The Equalisation Agreement provides that both companies adopt the contained in the Equalisation Agreement of 1 Fl.
12 equivalent to same accounting principles and requires as a general rule the 5.445.
The difference between the resulting value for PLC and the dividends and other rights and benets including rights on value derived by applying the year-end rate of exchange is taken to liquidation attaching to each Fl.
12 5.445 nominal of ordinary share other reserves see note 25 on page 125. capital of NV to be equal in value at the relevant rate of exchange to the dividends and other rights and benets attaching to each 1 The effects of exchange rate changes during the year on net assets nominal of ordinary share capital of PLC, as if each such unit of at the beginning of the year are recorded as a movement in capital formed part of the ordinary capital of one and the same shareholders equity, as is the difference between profit of the year company.
For additional information please refer to Corporate retained at average rates of exchange and at year-end rates of governance on page 41. exchange.
For these purposes net assets include loans between group companies and related foreign exchange contracts, if any, for which Basis of consolidation settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable Due to the operational and contractual arrangements referred to future.
Exchange gains losses on hedges of net assets are also above, NV and PLC form a single reporting entity for the purposes of recorded as a movement in equity.
Accordingly, the accounts of Unilever are presented by both NV and PLC as their respective Cumulative exchange differences arising since the transition date of consolidated accounts.
Group companies included in the consolidation 1 January 2004 are reported as a separate component of other are those companies controlled by NV or PLC.
The net assets and reserves see note 25 on page 125.
In the event of disposal of an results of acquired businesses are included in the consolidated interest in a subsidiary either through sale or as a result of a accounts from their respective dates of acquisition.
repayment of capital, the cumulative exchange difference is recognised in the income statement as part of the profit or loss on Companies legislation and accounting standards disposal of group companies.
The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Goodwill EU, including interpretations from the International Financial Goodwill being the difference between the fair value of consideration Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC and the Standing paid for new interests in group companies, joint ventures and Interpretations Committee SIC, and with Book 2 of the Civil Code in associates and the fair value of the Groups share of their net the Netherlands and the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985. identiable assets and contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition is capitalised.
Goodwill is not amortised, but is subject to an annual The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention as review for impairment or more frequently if necessary.
Any modied by the revaluation of biological assets, financial assets impairment is charged to the income statement as it arises.
classied as available-for-sale investments and at fair value through profit or loss, and derivatives.
Intangible assets On acquisition of group companies, Unilever recognises any Material variations from United States generally accepted accounting specically identiable intangible assets separately from goodwill, principles US GAAP are set out on pages 157 to 161. initially measuring the intangible assets at fair value.
Separately purchased intangible assets are initially measured at cost.
Finite-lived OECD Guidelines intangible assets including software are amortised in the income In preparing its Annual Review and Annual Report and Accounts statement over the period of their expected useful lives.
Periods in Unilever adheres to disclosure recommendations of the OECD excess of five years are used only where the Directors are satisfied that Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
the life of these assets will clearly exceed that period.
indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortised, but are subject to review for Foreign currencies impairment as described above for goodwill.
Items included in the financial statements of group companies are measured using the currency of the primary economic IFRSs also require that internally generated intangible assets be environment in which each entity operates its functional currency.
capitalised where certain specic criteria are met.
Unilever capitalises The consolidated financial statements are presented in euros.
internally generated software where it is clear that the software development is technically feasible and will be completed and that the Exchange differences arising in the accounts of individual companies software will generate economic benets in the future.
are dealt with in their respective income statements.
Those arising on trading transactions are taken to operating profit: those arising on Unilever also monitors the level of development costs which may only cash, financial assets and borrowings are classied as finance income be capitalised once the ow of economic benets is assured.
Unilever this is evident only shortly before a product is launched into the market.
The level of costs incurred after these criteria have been In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the income met is currently insignicant.
statement, the cash ow statement and all other movements in assets 82 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group 1 Accounting information and policies continued Property, plant and equipment Loans and receivables Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation and Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed impairment.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
percentages of cost based on the expected average useful lives of the They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly assets and their residual values.
Estimated useful lives by major class to a debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
Loans and of assets are as follows: receivables are included in trade and other receivables in the balance sheet at amortised cost.
Freehold buildings 40 years no depreciation on freehold land Trade and other receivables are stated after deducting adequate Leasehold buildings 40 years provision for doubtful debts.
Plant and equipment 220 years or life of lease if less than 40 years Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets Property, plant and equipment is subject to review for impairment if that are either designated in this category or not classied in any of triggering events or circumstances indicate that this is necessary.
They are included in non-current assets unless impairment is charged to the income statement as it arises.
management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from Biological assets changes in the fair value of financial assets classied as  assets are stated at fair value less estimated point-of-sale sale are recognised in equity.
Realised gains and losses arising from costs.
Any changes in the fair value of such biological assets are changes in fair value, interest and exchange differences are included recognised in the income statement.
Point-of-sale costs include all in the income statement.
costs that would be necessary to sell the assets, excluding costs necessary to get the assets to market.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss A financial asset is classied in this category if acquired principally for Joint ventures and associates the purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated.
Derivatives Joint ventures are undertakings in which the Group has a long-term are also classied in this category unless they are designated as participating interest and which are jointly controlled by the Group hedges.
Assets in this category are classied as current assets if they and one or more other parties.
Associates are undertakings in which are either held-for-trading or are expected to be realised within 12 the Group has a participating interest and can exercise significant months of the balance sheet date.
Realised and unrealised gains and inuence.
losses arising from changes in fair value are included in the income statement.
Interests in joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method and are stated in the consolidated balance sheet at the Borrowings Groups share of their aggregate assets and liabilities.
The Groups Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction share of the profit or loss after tax of joint ventures and associates is costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost included in the Groups consolidated profit before taxation.
unless they are part of a fair value hedge accounting relationship: any difference between the proceeds and the redemption value is Financial instruments recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings The Group accounts for financial instruments under IAS 32 Financial using the effective interest method.
Those borrowings that are part of Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial a fair value hedge accounting relationship are also recorded on an Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
amortised cost basis, plus or minus the fair value attributable to the risk being hedged with a corresponding entry in the income Financial assets statement.
Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised based on settlement accounting.
They are initially recognised at fair value plus No borrowing costs are capitalised as part of property, plant and directly attributable transaction costs.
Any impairment of a financial equipment.
asset is charged to the income statement as it arises.
Derivative financial instruments Financial assets are classied according to the purpose for which the The activities of the Group expose it primarily to the financial risks of investments were acquired.
This gives rise to the following categories: changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The held-to-maturity investments, loans and receivables, available-for-sale Group uses foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swap financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
contracts and forward rate agreements to hedge these exposures.
The Unilever determines the classication of its investments at initial Group also uses commodity contracts to hedge future requirements recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each reporting date.
for certain raw materials, almost always for physical delivery.
Those contracts that can also be settled in cash are treated as a financial Held-to-maturity investments instrument.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets for speculative purposes.
The use of leveraged instruments is not with xed or determinable payments and xed maturities that permitted.
management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
They are included in non-current investments at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any amounts written off to reect impairment.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 83 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group 1 Accounting information and policies continued Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are Pensions and similar obligations designated and effective as hedges of future cash ows are The operating and nancing costs of dened benefit plans are recognised directly in equity, and any ineffective portion is recognised recognised separately in the income statement.
Service costs are immediately in the income statement.
If the cash ow hedge of a rm systematically spread over the service lives of employees, and commitment or forecasted transaction subsequently results in the nancing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise.
The recognition of an asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or costs of individual events such as past service benefit enhancements, liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative settlements and curtailments are recognised immediately in the that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the income statement.
Variations from expected costs, arising from the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For hedged items that do experience of the plans or changes in actuarial assumptions, are not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred recognised immediately in the statement of recognised income and in equity are recognised in the income statement in the same period expense.
The assets and liabilities of dened benefit plans are in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
recognised at fair value in the balance sheet.
The charges to the income statement for dened contribution plans are the company For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair value, the contributions payable, and the assets of such plans are not included in hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the the balance sheet of the Group.
risk being hedged with the corresponding entry in profit or loss.
Gains or losses from re-measuring the derivative, or for non-derivatives the Deferred taxation foreign currency component of its carrying amount, are recognised in Deferred taxation is recognised using the liability method on all taxable profit or loss.
temporary differences between the tax base and the accounting base of items included in the balance sheet of the Group.
Deferred tax is Changes in fair value of net investment hedges in relation to foreign recognised at the rates of tax prevailing at the year end unless future subsidiaries are recognised directly in equity.
rates have been enacted or substantively enacted.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do Provision is made for taxation which will become payable if retained not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income profits of group companies are distributed to the parent companies only statement as they arise.
to the extent that such distributions are considered probable.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument no Provisions longer qualies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative Provisions are recognised when either a legal or constructive gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is obligation, as a result of a past event, exists at the balance sheet date retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement.
Segment information Segmental information is provided on the basis of geographical Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host segments and product categories.
The primary format, geographic contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and regions, is based on the management structure of the Group, which characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and operates in three main geographical regions.
the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Turnover Turnover comprises sales of goods and services after deduction of Valuation principles discounts and sales taxes.
It does not include sales between group The fair values of quoted investments are based on current bid prices.
Discounts given by Unilever include rebates, price For unlisted and for listed securities where the market for a financial reductions and incentives given to customers, promotional couponing asset is not active the Group establishes fair value using valuation and trade communication costs.
At each balance sheet date any techniques.
These include the use of recent arms length transactions, expenditure incurred but not yet invoiced is estimated and accrued.
reference to other instruments that are substantially the same and discounted cash ow analysis.
Turnover is recognised when the risks and rewards of the underlying products and services have been substantially transferred to the Impairment of financial instruments customer.
At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets Research and market support costs is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classied as  on research and market support such as advertising is sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security charged to the income statement of the year in which it is incurred.
below its cost is considered in determining whether the securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial Leases assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the Leases are classied as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss is removed lessee.
All other leases are classied as operating leases.
from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are Assets held under finance leases are recognised as non-current assets not subsequently reversed through the income statement.
of the Group at their fair value at the date of commencement of the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease Inventories payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the Inventories are valued at the lower of weighted average cost and fair balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are value less cost to sell.
Cost comprises direct costs and, where apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease appropriate, a proportion of attributable production overheads.
obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly Cash and cash equivalents against income.
For the purpose of preparation of the cash ow statement, cash and cash equivalents includes cash at bank and in hand, highly liquid profits or losses are recognised from sale and leaseback transactions at interest bearing securities with original maturities of three months or fair value.
Where the transaction results in an operating lease, the less, and bank overdrafts.
profit or loss arising is immediately recognised in the income statement, and for those that result in a finance lease they are deferred over the lease term.
84 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group 1 Accounting information and policies continued Lease payments relating to operating leases, are charged to the Impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term, Impairment reviews in respect of goodwill and intangible assets are or over the period between rent reviews where these exist.
More regular reviews are performed if events indicate that this is necessary.
Examples of such triggering Transfer pricing events would include a significant planned restructuring, a major The preferred method for determining transfer prices for our own change in market conditions or technology, expectations of future manufactured goods is to use the market price.
Where there is no operating losses, or negative cash ows.
market price, the companies concerned follow established transfer pricing guidelines, where available, or else engage in arms length The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units are determined negotiations.
based on the higher of realisable value and value-in-use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates.
Details of key Trademarks owned by the parent companies and used by operating assumptions made are set out in note 10 on page 99. companies are, where appropriate, licensed in return for royalties or a fee.
Retirement benets Pension accounting requires certain assumptions to be made in order General services provided by central advisory departments, regional to value our obligations and to determine the charges to be made to and category management, and research laboratories are charged to the income statement.
These gures are particularly sensitive to operating companies on the basis of fees.
assumptions for discount rates, mortality, ination rates and expected long-term rates of return on assets.
Details of assumptions made are Share-based payments given in note 22 on pages 115 and 116.
The economic cost of awarding shares and share options to employees is reected by recording a charge in the income statement Taxation equivalent to the fair value of the benefit awarded.
The fair value is The Group is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
significant determined with reference to option pricing models, principally judgement is required in determining worldwide provision for taxes.
adjusted Black-Scholes models or multinomial pricing model.
The There are many transactions and calculations during the ordinary charge is recognised in the income statement over the vesting period course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is of the award.
Share-based payments are described in more detail in uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit note 31 on pages 132 to 141. issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the Shares held by employee share trusts amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the The assets and liabilities of certain PLC trusts, NV and group income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such companies which purchase and hold NV and PLC shares to satisfy determination is made.
options granted are included in the consolidated accounts.
The book value of shares held is deducted from other reserves, and trust Recent accounting developments borrowings are included in the Groups borrowings.
The costs of the IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, effective from 1 January trusts are included in the results of the Group.
These shares are 2007, introduces new disclosures to improve the information about excluded from the calculation of earnings per share.
It requires the disclosures of qualitative and quantitative information about exposure to risks arising from financial Non-current assets held for sale instruments, including specified minimum disclosures about credit Assets and groups of assets and liabilities which comprise disposal risk, liquidity risk and market risk, including sensitivity analysis to groups are classied as held for sale when all of the following criteria market risk.
It replaces disclosure requirements in IAS 32, Financial are met: a decision has been made to sell, the assets are available for Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation.
Unilever will apply IFRS 7 sale immediately, the assets are being actively marketed, and a sale and the amendment to IAS 1 from annual periods beginning has been or is expected to be concluded within twelve months of the 1 January 2007, and it is not expected to have a material effect balance sheet date.
Assets and disposal groups held for sale are on the Groups disclosures.
valued at the lower of book value or fair value less disposal costs.
Assets held for sale are not depreciated.
IFRIC 4, Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease, effective from 1 January 2006, requires the determination of Critical accounting estimates and judgements whether an arrangement is or contains a lease to be based on the Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on substance of the arrangement.
The adoption is not expected to have historical experience and other factors, including expectations of a material effect on the consolidated results of operations or financial future events that are believed to be reasonable under the position of Unilever.
IFRIC 7, Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial The preparation of financial statements under IFRSs requires Reporting in Hyperinationary Economies effective for periods management to make estimates and assumptions concerning the beginning 1 March 2006 provides guidance on how to apply the future.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by denition, seldom requirements of IAS 29 in a reporting period in which an entity equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that identies the existence of hyperination in the economy when that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying economy was not hyperinationary in the prior period.
The adoption amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are is not expected to have a material effect on the consolidated results of discussed below.
operations or financial position of Unilever.
Recent changes in reporting requirements under US GAAP are discussed on page 161.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 85 Financial Statements
