Taxation for US residents holding shares in PLC The following notes are provided for guidance.
US residents UK taxation on capital gains should consult their local tax advisers, particularly in connection Under United Kingdom law, when you sell shares you may be with potential liability to pay US taxes on disposal, lifetime gift liable to pay capital gains tax.
However, if you are either: or bequest of their shares.
an individual who is neither resident nor ordinarily resident in United Kingdom taxation on dividends the United Kingdom: or Under United Kingdom law, income tax is not withheld from dividends paid by United Kingdom companies.
Shareholders, a company which is not resident in the United Kingdom: whether resident in the United Kingdom or not, receive the full amount of the dividend actually declared.
you will not be liable to United Kingdom tax on any capital gains made on disposal of your shares.
United States taxation on dividends If you are a shareholder resident in the US, the dividend up to the The exception is if the shares are held in connection with a trade amount of our earnings and profits for United States Federal or business which is conducted in the United Kingdom through income tax purposes will be ordinary dividend income.
Dividends a branch or an agency.
received by an individual during taxable years before 2009 will be taxed at a maximum rate of 15%, provided the individual has UK inheritance tax held the shares for more than 60 days during the 121-day period Under the current estate and gift tax convention between the beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date, that PLC is a United States and the United Kingdom, ordinary shares held by qualied foreign corporation and certain other conditions are an individual shareholder who is: satisfied.
PLC is a qualied foreign corporation for this purpose.
Dividends received by an individual for taxable years after 2008 domiciled for the purposes of the convention in the United will be subject to tax at ordinary income rates.
The dividend is States: and not eligible for the dividends received deduction allowable to is not for the purposes of the convention a national of the corporations.
The dividend is foreign source income for US foreign United Kingdom: tax credit purposes.
will not be subject to United Kingdom inheritance tax on: Any portion of the dividend that exceeds our United States earnings and profits is subject to different rules.
This portion is a the individuals death: or tax free return of capital to the extent of your basis in our shares, on a gift of the shares during the individuals lifetime.
and thereafter is treated as a gain on a disposition of the shares.
The exception is if the shares are part of the business property of a permanent establishment of the individual in the United Kingdom or, in the case of a shareholder who performs independent personal services, pertain to a xed base situated in the United Kingdom.
186 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005
