Statement of Directors responsibilities Annual accounts and PLC have also established a clear organisational structure, The Directors are required by Title 9, Book 2 of the Civil Code in including delegation of appropriate authorities.
The Groups the Netherlands and the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 control framework is supported through a Code of Business to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and Principles, which sets standards of professionalism and integrity fair view of the state of affairs of the Unilever Group, and the NV for its operations worldwide, and through an Operational and PLC entities as at the end of the financial year and of the Controls Assessment process, which requires the senior profit or loss and cash ows for that year.
management in each business unit to assess the effectiveness of financial controls annually and of all other operational controls The Directors consider that in preparing the accounts, the Group, over a three-year cycle.
and the NV and PLC entities have used the most appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by The Boards have overall responsibility for establishing key reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all procedures designed to achieve systems of internal control and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU disclosure control and for reviewing and evaluating their in the case of the consolidated accounts and United Kingdom effectiveness.
The day-to-day responsibility for implementation accounting standards in the case of the parent company accounts of these procedures and ongoing monitoring of risk and which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
the effectiveness of controls rests with the Groups senior management at individual operating company and regional level.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that NV and PLC Regions review on an ongoing basis, the risks faced by their keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy group and the related internal control arrangements and provide their financial position and which enable the Directors to ensure written reports to the Group Chief Executive.
that the accounts comply with the relevant legislation.
They also have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are Unilevers corporate internal audit function plays a key role in reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group, providing an objective view and continuous reassurance of the and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
effectiveness of the risk management and related control systems throughout Unilever to both operating management and the This statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Boards.
The Group has an independent Audit Committee, Auditors report, is made with a view to distinguishing for entirely comprised of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors This Committee meets regularly with the Chief Auditor and and of the auditors in relation to the accounts.
A copy of the financial statements of the Unilever Group is Unilever has a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual placed on our website at www.
The budget approved by the Boards, which is regularly reviewed and maintenance and integrity of the website is the responsibility of updated.
Performance is monitored against budget and the the Directors, and the work carried out by the auditors does not previous year through monthly and quarterly reporting routines.
involve consideration of these matters.
Accordingly, the auditors The Group reports to shareholders quarterly.
accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially placed on the Unilevers system of risk management has been in place website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands throughout 2005 and up to the date of this report, and complies governing the preparation and dissemination of financial with the recommendations of Internal Control Guidance for statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors on the Combined Code, published by the Internal Control Working Party of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Going concern in England & Wales in September 1999.
The Boards have carried The Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis out an annual review of the effectiveness of the systems of risk in preparing the accounts.
This is because the Directors, management and internal control during 2005 in accordance with after making enquiries and following a review of the Groups this guidance, and have ensured that the necessary actions have budget for 2006 and 2007, including cash ows and borrowing been or are being taken to address any weaknesses or facilities, consider that the Group has adequate resources to deficiencies arising out of that review.
continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Based on an evaluation by the Boards, the Group Chief Executive Internal and disclosure controls and procedures and the Chief Financial officer concluded that the design and Unilever has a well-established control framework, which operation of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at is documented and regularly reviewed by the Boards.
31 December 2005 were effective, and that subsequently there This incorporates risk management, internal control procedures have been no significant changes in the Groups internal controls, and disclosure controls and procedures which are designed to or in other factors that could signicantly affect those controls.
provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that assets are safeguarded, the risks facing the business are being addressed It is Unilevers practice to bring acquired companies within the and all information required to be disclosed is reported to the Groups governance procedures as soon as is practicable and, Groups senior management, including where appropriate the in any event, by the end of the first full year of operation.
Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer, within the required timeframe.
At the end of 2006, Unilever will be required by Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to report on the effectiveness Our procedures cover financial, operational, social and of internal control over financial reporting.
The evaluation work environmental risks and regulatory matters.
The Boards of NV necessary to meet this specic requirement is under way.
74 74 Unilever Unilever Annual Report and Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Accounts 2005
