Further statutory and other information Unilever PLC Employee involvement and communication Auditors Unilevers UK companies maintain formal processes to inform, consult A resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on and involve employees and their representatives.
Most of the United 9 May 2006 for the re-appointment of  LLP Kingdom sites are accredited to the Investors in People standard.
The present appointment will end at the sites also use tools such as Total Productive Maintenance which rely conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
heavily on employee involvement, contribution and commitment.
Authority to purchase own shares A European Works Council, embracing employee and management At the Annual General Meeting of PLC held on 11 May 2005, representatives from 15 countries of Western Europe, has been authority was given pursuant to Article 64 of the PLC Articles of in existence for several years and provides a forum for discussing Association to make market purchases of PLC ordinary shares of 1.4p issues that extend across national boundaries.
each, to a maximum of 290 million shares.
This authority will expire at the Annual General Meeting on 9 May 2006, and a resolution will be The directors reports of the United Kingdom group companies proposed to renew it.
On 9 December 2005, Unilever PLC announced contain more details about how they have communicated with their that it had purchased 25 680 479 Unilever PLC ordinary shares under employees during 2005. this authority.
Equal opportunities and diversity Details of shares purchased by an employee share trust and Unilever The heads of all operating companies and units in the UK have group companies to satisfy options granted under PLCs employee committed their businesses to achieving greater diversity.
Every share schemes are given in the report of the Remuneration Unilever company in the United Kingdom has an equal opportunities Committee on page 67 and in note 31 to the consolidated accounts policy and actively pursues equality of opportunity for all employees.
The company carries out an annual employee monitoring survey and Directors report of PLC has also conducted an equal pay audit.
The company continues to For the purposes of Section 234 of the Companies Act 1985, the review ways in which greater diversity can be achieved in recruitment Directors Report of Unilever PLC for the year ended 31 December and selection.
2005 comprises this page and the information contained in the report of the Directors on pages 09 to 72, the report of the Remuneration The company continues to put in place policies which promote the Committee in respect of Directors interests in shares or debentures of achievement of diversity in the business.
We have policies on home the Group on page 69, Dividends on page 187 and Principal group working, exible working, maternity and paternity leave, child care companies and xed investments on pages 167 and 168. provision and career breaks, which help us to meet this objective.
Corporate Centre Charitable and other contributions Unilever PLC Unilever collates the cost of its community involvement activities using PO Box 68 Unilever House the London Benchmarking Group model.
The model recommends the Blackfriars separation of charitable donations, community investment, London EC4P 4BQ commercial initiatives in the community and management costs relating to the programme of activity.
Unilever PLC Registered Ofce Port Sunlight During 2005 UK group companies made a total contribution of Wirral 7.4 million, analysed as follows: Merseyside CH62 4ZD Charitable donations: 1.5 million Unilever PLC Registrars Community investment: 1.3 million Computershare Investor Services PLC Commercial initiatives in the community: 3.9 million PO Box 82 Management costs: 0.7 million The Pavilions Bridgwater Road No donation or contribution was made or expenditure incurred for Bristol BS99 7NH political purposes.
Supplier payment policies Individual operating companies are responsible for agreeing the By Order of the Board terms and conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are conducted.
The directors reports of the United Kingdom J A A van der Bijl operating companies give information about their supplier payment S G Williams policies as required by the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985.
PLC, as a holding company, does not itself make any relevant Joint Secretaries of Unilever PLC payments in this respect.
28 February 2006 178 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Shareholder information Analysis of shareholding 180 Information about exchange controls affecting security holders 182 Nature of the trading market 183 Taxation for US residents holding shares in NV 185 Taxation for US residents holding shares in PLC 186 Dividends 187 Glossary 188 Financial calendar and addresses 189 Website 190 Publications 190 Share registration 190 Cross reference to form 20-F 191 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 179
