Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group 2 Financial risk management Treasury risks exchange exposure in operating companies by borrowing in the local Unilever manages a variety of market risks, including the effects of currency, except where inhibited by local regulations, lack of local changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates, liquidity and liquidity or local market conditions.
For those countries that, in the counterparty risks.
view of management, have a substantial retranslation risk, Unilever may hedge such net investment.
Nevertheless from time to time, Unilever has an interest rate management policy aimed at optimising currency revaluations on unhedged investments will trigger exchange net interest cost and reducing volatility.
This is achieved by modifying translation movements in the balance sheet.
In 2005, the significant the interest rate exposure of debt and cash positions through the strengthening of the US dollar against the euro has had a positive use of interest rate swaps.
Further details on the xing levels of the impact on reported operating results, but has had a negative impact projected cash and borrowing positions are given in note 19 on on debt and equity, when reported in euros.
Liquidity risk is managed by maintaining access to global debt markets Fixed rate investments give rise to a fair value interest rate risk.
The through an infrastructure of short-term and long-term debt oating amounts give rise to a cash ow interest rate risk.
In addition to this, Unilever has committed credit facilities in place to support its commercial paper programmes and for Because of Unilevers broad operational reach, it is subject to risks from general corporate purposes.
See note 18 on page 109 for further changes in foreign currency values that could affect earnings.
As a details of these credit facilities.
practical matter, it is not feasible to fully hedge these uctuations.
Additionally, Unilever believes that most currencies of major countries Counterparty exposures are minimised by restricting dealing in which it operates will equalise against the euro over time.
Unilever counterparties to a limited number of financial institutions that have does have a foreign exchange policy that requires operating secure credit ratings, by working within agreed counterparty limits, by companies to manage trading and financial foreign exchange obtaining collateral for outstanding positions and by setting limits on exposures within prescribed limits.
This is achieved primarily through the maturity of exposures.
Counterparty credit ratings are closely the use of forward foreign exchange contracts.
Regional groups monitored and concentration of credit risk with any single monitor compliance with this policy.
At the end of 2005, there was no counterparty is avoided.
There was no significant concentration of material exposure from companies holding assets and liabilities other credit risk with any single counterparty as at the year end.
than in their functional currency.
Master netting agreements are in place for the majority of interest In addition, as Unilever conducts business in many foreign currencies rate derivative instruments.
The risk in the event of default by a but publishes its financial statements and measures its performance in counterparty is determined by the extent to which market prices have euros, it is subject to exchange risk due to the effects that exchange moved since the contracts were made.
The Group believes that the rate movements have on the translation of the underlying net assets risk of incurring such losses is remote.
Unilever aims to minimise its foreign 86 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the consolidated accounts Unilever Group 2 Financial risk management continued Sensitivity analysis reducing volatility.
Part of the interest rates on funds and debt are not The analysis below presents the sensitivity of the fair value of the xed and are therefore subject to changes in oating interest rates, financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments which see note 17 on page 105 and note 18 on page 109.
The analysis the Group held at 31 December 2005, to hypothetical changes in shows the sensitivity of the income statement to a hypothetical one interest and foreign exchange rates.
percentage point change in oating interest rates over both funds and debt on a full year basis.
Interest rate sensitivity The fair values of debt, investments and related hedging instruments Sensitivity to a hypothetical are affected by movements in interest rates.
The analysis shows the one percentage point change in sensitivity of the fair value of interest rate sensitive instruments to a oating rates as at 31 December hypothetical 10% change in the interest rates across all maturities.
million million 2005 2004 Foreign exchange rate sensitivity Funds 21 65 The values of debt, investments and related hedging instruments, Debt 66 97 denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entities holding them, are subject to exchange rate movements.
The analysis shows the income statement sensitivity of these values to Pensions and similar obligations a hypothetical 10% change in foreign exchange rates.
Pension assets and liabilities pre-tax of 1 036 million and 6 617 million respectively are held on the Groups balance sheet as Sensitivity to a at 31 December 2005.
Movements in equity markets, interest rates hypothetical 10% change in and life expectancy could materially affect the level of surpluses and rates as at 31 December deficits in these schemes, and could prompt the need for the Group million million to make additional pension contributions in the future.
The key 2005 2004 assumptions used to value our pension liabilities are set out in note 22 on pages 115 and 116.
Interest rate risk 193 160 Foreign exchange rate risk 30 7 Cash and borrowings Cash ow provides the funds to service the nancing of the business The above-mentioned interest rate sensitivity relates to financial and enhance shareholder return.
A material and sustained shortfall in instruments, including derivative financial instruments, with fair values our cash ow could undermine our credit rating and overall investor amounting to 11 186 million at the end of 2005 2004: 12 397 confidence and could restrict the Groups ability to raise funding.
The above-mentioned foreign exchange rate risk relates to a value of financial instruments and derivatives of 300 million at the Other financial risks end of 2005 2004: 68 million.
As a result of the share-based compensation plans for employees, we are exposed to movements in our own share price.
In recent years we Further details on derivatives, foreign exchange exposures and other have managed this risk by buying Unilever shares in the market when related information on financial instruments are given in note 19 on the share option or award is granted.
Going forward, we will take a pages 110 to 113. more exible approach to the time at which we buy shares, not automatically buying shares at grant.
In 2001, we entered into a Sensitivity to not applying hedge accounting contract with a bank for the forward purchase of Unilever shares, Derivatives have to be reported at fair value.
Those derivatives used further details of which are given in note 19 on page 112.
On for cash ow hedging for which we do not apply hedge accounting 15 February 2005, 18 881 587 NV shares of treasury stock were will cause volatility in the income statement.
Such derivatives did not used for the 0.05 cumulative preference share conversion.
Between have a material impact on the 2005 income statement.
February and September 2005, NV shares were purchased in the market to bring the hedge to an appropriate level.
At the year Income statement sensitivity to changes in interest rates end, 91% of all outstanding employee share options were hedged: As mentioned above on page 86, Unilever has an interest rate based on Unilevers experience we consider this position as being management policy aimed at optimising net interest costs and fully hedged.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 87 Financial Statements
