General information The Unilever Group Basis of discussion and analysis Unilever N. V. NV is a public limited company registered in the In parts of this document, notably the Group Chief Executives Netherlands, which has listings of shares or certicates depositary discussion on pages 6 and 7 and the review of operations by receipts of NV on the stock exchanges in Amsterdam, New York, region on pages 26 to 28, discussion of performance is based on Frankfurt and Zrich.
This removes the impact of currency movements on translation into euros, and more clearly portrays Unilever PLC PLC is a public limited company registered in the underlying performance of the operations themselves.
The England which has shares listed on the London Stock Exchange constant rate used is the annual average rate for the prior year.
and, as American Depositary Receipts, on the New York The year-on-year trend in euros is the same as that which would Stock Exchange.
arise if the results were shown in sterling or US dollars at constant exchange rates.
The two parent companies, NV and PLC, together with their group companies, operate as a single economic entity the is used in this report to denote amounts in euros.
Unilever Group, also referred to as Unilever or the Group.
NV and PLC and their group companies constitute a single reporting and p are used in this report to denote amounts in pounds entity for the purposes of presenting consolidated accounts.
Accordingly, the accounts of the Unilever Group are presented by both NV and PLC as their respective consolidated accounts.
is used in this report to denote amounts in Dutch guilders.
Publications $ is used in this report to denote amounts in United States This publication is produced in both Dutch and English and dollars, except where specically stated otherwise.
comprises the full Annual Report and Accounts for 2005 of the Unilever Group.
This document complies with Netherlands and The brand names shown in italics in this report are trademarks United Kingdom regulations.
It also forms the basis of the NV and owned by or licensed to companies within the Unilever Group.
PLC Annual Reports on Form 20-F to the Securities and Exchange Commission in the United States for the year ended 31 December Cautionary statement 2005, and cross references to Form 20-F are set out on page 191.
This document may contain forward-looking statements, including It is made available to all shareholders who request or elect to forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United receive it, and on our website at States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
such as expects, anticipates, intends or the negative of these terms and other similar expressions of future performance or The separate publication, Unilever Annual Review 2005, results and their negatives are intended to identify such forward containing a Summary Financial Statement with gures expressed looking statements.
These forward-looking statements are based in euros, with translations into pounds sterling and US dollars, is upon current expectations and assumptions regarding anticipated also published in Dutch and English.
It is a short form document developments and other factors affecting the Group.
They are not that is prepared in accordance with the United Kingdom historical facts, nor are they guarantees of future performance.
regulations for Summary Financial Statements.
The Unilever Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and Annual Review 2005 is mailed to all registered shareholders and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause actual to other shareholders who are either entitled or have asked to results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by receive it, and is also made available on the website at these forward-looking statements, including, among others, www.
competitive pricing and activities, consumption levels, costs, the ability to maintain and manage key customer relationships and Accounting standards supply chain sources, currency values, interest rates, the ability to With effect from 1 January 2005, Unilever adopted International integrate acquisitions and complete planned divestitures, physical Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU, with a risks, environmental risks, the ability to manage regulatory, tax transition date of 1 January 2004.
For further details of this and legal matters and resolve pending matters within current change please refer to note 35 on page 144.
For Unilever, there estimates, legislative, scal and regulatory developments, political, are currently no differences between IFRSs as issued by the economic and social conditions in the geographic markets where International Accounting Standards Board IASB and IFRSs as the Group operates and new or changed priorities of the Boards.
adopted by the EU, and therefore no reconciliation is presented.
Further details of potential risks and uncertainties affecting the Group are described in the Groups lings with the London Stock Reporting currency and exchange rates Exchange, Euronext Amsterdam and the US Securities and Details of key exchange rates used in preparation of these Exchange Commission, including the Annual Report and Accounts accounts are given on page 156, together with Noon Buying on Form 20-F.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of Rates in New York for the equivalent dates.
the date of this document.
Except as required by any applicable law or regulation, the Group expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein to reect any change in the Groups expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
04 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005
