NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 December 2005 Preparation of Accounts Introduction Following the adoption of IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 by the European Parliament, the Group is required to prepare consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
The Group has applied IFRS for the year ended 31 December 2005 and has prepared 2004 comparative figures on the same basis.
The Groups date of transition to IFRS is 1 January 2004.
This report contains the consolidated financial results for these periods under the basis of preparation set out below.
To assist with the understanding of the impact of transition from United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP to IFRS, the Group has presented the reconciliations of UK GAAP to IFRS as required by IFRS 1, First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards for 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2004 in Note 35.
Basis of Preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS and IFRIC interpretations endorsed by the European Union EU and with those parts of the Companies Act, 1985, applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities held for trading.
A summary of the more important Group accounting policies is set out below, together with an explanation of where changes have been made to previous policies on the adoption of new accounting standards in the year.
The preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reporting amount of income and expenses during the year.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The Group had net current liabilities at the balance sheet date of 5.7 million 2004: 6.8 million as a result of the adoption of IAS 39.
This liability relates to hedges of future cash flows, which will be generated during 2006 out of which the liability will be met.
Transitional Arrangements On transition to IFRS, an entity is generally required to apply IFRS retrospectively, except where an exemption is available under IFRS 1.
The following accounting policies have been consistently applied to all periods presented, except those relating to the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
The Group has elected to adopt IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement from 1 January 2005.
Comparatives for 2004 have not been restated and, as permitted by IFRS 1, financial instruments are accounted for under UK GAAP in accordance with the accounting policies set out in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004.
If 2004 comparatives had been restated adjustments would be required to record the fair values of the financial instruments and the respective movements in the fair values during the year.
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of that standard, only those awards that were granted after 7 November 2002 and had not vested at 1 January 2005 are included.
The Group has elected to restate the fair values of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 65 ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2005 Consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date on which control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired, liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated as part of the consolidation process.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Investment in an Associate The Groups investment in its associate is accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
This is an entity in which the Group has significant influence and which is neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture.
The financial statements of the associate are used by the Group to apply the equity method.
The reporting dates of the associate and the Group are identical and both use consistent accounting policies.
The investment in associate is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate, less any impairment in value.
The income statement reflects the share of the results of operations of the associate.
Joint Ventures The Group is engaged in oil and gas development and production through unincorporated joint ventures.
The Group accounts for its share of the results and net assets of these joint ventures as jointly controlled assets.
In addition where the Group acts as operator to the joint venture, the gross liabilities and receivables including amounts due to or from non-operating partners of the joint venture are included in the Group consolidated balance sheet.
Revenue Recognition Revenue comprises the fair value for the sale of goods and services, net of VAT.
Revenue is recognised when it is probable that the benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group and the amounts can be measured reliably.
Revenue is recognised as follows: a Sale of goods Sale of goods represents the sale of oil, gas and natural gas liquids and follows an entitlement basis.
Consequently for sales in respect of oil liftings sold, adjustments for overlift liftings greater than production entitlement and underlift production entitlement greater than liftings are recorded against cost of sales at market value.
b Tariff income Tariff income is recognised when the products are physically transferred into a vessel, pipe or other delivery mechanism.
66 VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Segmental reporting Segmental reporting follows the Groups internal reporting structure, and accordingly its primary segment reporting is geographical.
A geographical segment is engaged in providing products within a particular economic environment that is subject to risks and returns that are different from those segments operating in other economic environments.
In the opinion of the directors the operations of the Group comprise one class of business, the production and sale of hydrocarbons.
Foreign Currency Translation a Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, the Groups functional and presentation currency.
b Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign currency gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cashflow hedges.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Property, Plant and Equipment Expenditure relating to oil and gas activities is capitalised in accordance with the successful efforts method of accounting.
All capitalised costs associated with developed fields are classified as tangible for the purposes of these accounts.
Such costs are amortised on a unit of production basis that is calculated to write off the historic cost of each asset in line with the depletion of proved reserves.
Where such capitalised costs relate to an asset that will be shared with future developments, the costs are amortised on a unit of production basis that is calculated based on proven and probable reserves.
Acquisition costs relating to oil and gas activities are recorded at fair value in accordance with the sale and purchase agreement.
All property, plant and equipment is shown at cost less subsequent depreciation and impairment.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost less their residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Plant and machinery 10-33% Office equipment 25% Motor vehicles 25% Buildings 5% The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount.
These are included in the income statement.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis.
VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 67 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Impairment of Assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets net realisable value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cashflows.
These cash-generating units CGUs are aligned to the business unit and sub-business unit structure the Group uses to manage its business.
Cash flows are discounted in determining the value in use.
Deferred Consideration Deferred consideration relates to the future cash consideration payable in respect of acquisitions which is contingent on the outcome of future events.
When an acquisition agreement provides for an adjustment to the consideration contingent on future events, provision is made for that amount if the adjustment is probable and can be measured reliably.
The amount provided is included in the cost of the acquisition.
When the final amount payable is determined or when revised estimates are made the acquisition cost and provision are adjusted accordingly.
Deferred consideration is recorded at its fair value.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value and comprise oil in tanks and pipelines and materials.
Assets held for sale Assets held for sale are stated at fair value on the basis that they are available for immediate sale in their present condition, subject only to terms that are usual and customary for sales of such assets and that the sale is highly probable at the balance sheet date.
Trade Receivables Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less any provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, bank overdrafts and deposits held at call with banks with maturity dates of less than three months.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Share Capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options, for the acquisition of a business are included in the cost of acquisition as part of the purchase consideration.
Dividends on ordinary shares are not recognised as a liability or charged to equity until they have been declared.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital Treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
The Group is deemed to have control of the assets, liabilities, income and costs of its employee share benefit trusts EBT trusts.
They have therefore been consolidated in the financial statements of the Group.
Shares acquired by and disposed of by the EBT trusts are recorded at cost.
The cost of shares held by the EBT trusts is deducted from shareholders equity.
68 VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at cost, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Capitalised Interest Interest is capitalised gross of related tax relief during the period of construction, where it relates either to the financing of major projects with long periods of development, or to dedicated financing of other projects.
All other interest is charged against income.
Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Pre 1 January 2005 The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposures to fluctuations in commodity prices.
Gains and losses on commodity price hedges are recognised on maturity of the underlying transaction.
Post 1 January 2005 Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates derivatives as hedges of highly probable forecast transactions cashflow hedge.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cashflows of hedged items.
At the point of settlement, any payments or receipts relating to hedge transactions are included in revenue.
Cashflow Hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cashflow hedges, are recognised in equity net of deferred income tax.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity, including the associated deferred income taxes, are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss for example, when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Such derivatives are classified as at fair value through profit or loss, and changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Fair value estimation Fair value is the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arms length transaction between informed and willing parties, other than a forced or liquidation sale and excludes accrued interest.
Where available, market values are used to determine fair values.
Where market values are not available, fair values are calculated by discounting expected cash flows at prevailing interest and exchange rates.
VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 69 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Taxation The tax charge represents the sum of tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from the profit reported in the income statement due to items that are not taxable or deductible in any period and also due to items that are taxable or deductible in a different period.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the deferred income tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction effects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or substantially enacted, by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Pension costs The Group pays contributions to personal pension schemes of employees, which are administered independently of the Group.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due.
Share-based payments The Group currently has various share based payment schemes for its employees and Directors, details of which are given in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The fair value of share-based awards is determined at the date of grant of the award allowing for the effect of any market-based performance conditions.
This fair value, adjusted by the Groups estimate of the number of awards that will eventually vest as a result of key performance measures, is expensed uniformly over the vesting period.
The corresponding credit is taken to the employee benefit reserve.
The proceeds on exercise of share options are credited to share capital and share premium.
The fair values are calculated using a binomial option pricing model with suitable modifications to allow for employee turnover after vesting and early exercise.
The inputs to the model include the share price at date of grant, exercise price, expected volatility, expected dividends, risk free rate of interest and patterns of early exercise of the plan participants.
Decommissioning Provision for decommissioning is recognised in full at the commencement of oil and natural gas production.
The amount recognised is the present value of the estimated future expenditure determined in accordance with local conditions and requirements.
A corresponding tangible fixed asset of an amount equivalent to the provision is also created.
This is subsequently depreciated as part of the capital costs of the production and transportation facilities.
Any change in the present value of the estimated expenditure is reflected as an adjustment to the provision and the fixed asset.
Unwinding of discount is treated as a finance cost.
Early Adoption of other International Financial Reporting Standards In addition to the standards referred to above, the Group has resolved to early adopt IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources, which applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006.
Comparative figures have been amended as required.
70 VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
