NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 December 2005 Preparation of Accounts Introduction Following the adoption of IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 by the European Parliament, the Group is required to prepare consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
The Group has applied IFRS for the year ended 31 December 2005 and has prepared 2004 comparative figures on the same basis.
The Groups date of transition to IFRS is 1 January 2004.
This report contains the consolidated financial results for these periods under the basis of preparation set out below.
To assist with the understanding of the impact of transition from United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP to IFRS, the Group has presented the reconciliations of UK GAAP to IFRS as required by IFRS 1, First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards for 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2004 in Note 35.
Basis of Preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS and IFRIC interpretations endorsed by the European Union EU and with those parts of the Companies Act, 1985, applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities held for trading.
A summary of the more important Group accounting policies is set out below, together with an explanation of where changes have been made to previous policies on the adoption of new accounting standards in the year.
The preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reporting amount of income and expenses during the year.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The Group had net current liabilities at the balance sheet date of 5.7 million 2004: 6.8 million as a result of the adoption of IAS 39.
This liability relates to hedges of future cash flows, which will be generated during 2006 out of which the liability will be met.
Transitional Arrangements On transition to IFRS, an entity is generally required to apply IFRS retrospectively, except where an exemption is available under IFRS 1.
The following accounting policies have been consistently applied to all periods presented, except those relating to the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
The Group has elected to adopt IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement from 1 January 2005.
Comparatives for 2004 have not been restated and, as permitted by IFRS 1, financial instruments are accounted for under UK GAAP in accordance with the accounting policies set out in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004.
If 2004 comparatives had been restated adjustments would be required to record the fair values of the financial instruments and the respective movements in the fair values during the year.
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of that standard, only those awards that were granted after 7 November 2002 and had not vested at 1 January 2005 are included.
The Group has elected to restate the fair values of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 65
