NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 36.
Explanation of reconciling items between UK GAAP and IFRS a Transitional date and first-time adoption of IFRS: the Groups transition date to IFRS is 1 January 2004.
All adjustments on first time adoption were recorded in shareholders equity on the date of transaction except for adjustments relating to IAS 39, which were recorded in shareholders equity at 1 January 2005.
IFRS 1 First-Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards sets out the transition rules which must be applied when IFRS is adopted for the first time.
As a result, certain of the requirements and options in IFRS 1 may result in a different application of accounting policies in the 2004 restated financial information from that which would apply if the 2004 financial statements were the first financial statements.
b Employee benefits share-based payments : under UK GAAP charges were based on the intrinsic value of awarded shares at grant date.
Under IFRS the income statement cost is based on the fair value of all share-based awards at grant date if equity settled, or at the balance sheet date if cash settled.
The cost is calculated using option pricing models and, for equity-settled awards, applies to all options granted after 7 November 2002 and amortised over the vesting period of the options.
c Taxation: under IFRS deferred tax is recognised on the basis of temporary differences between the carrying value of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet, and their tax bases.
IAS 12 requires that deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences arising on acquisitions that are categorised as business combinations.
Deferred tax is recognised at the date of acquisition as part of the assessment of the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired and is provided on balances previously excluded, such as cost of reserves.
An additional deferred tax liability has been recognised in respect of these temporary differences and the fair values assigned to property, plant and equipment were increased accordingly.
This results in an increase to depreciation, offset by a reduction in the tax charge.
d Financial instruments and derivatives: under IFRS the Group adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement at the effective date of 1 January 2005.
IAS 39 covers the recognition, measurement and fide-recognition of financial instruments for which there is no UK equivalent standard.
The Group decided to take the exemption granted in IFRS 1, which removed the requirement to produce 2004 comparatives.
Financial assets and liabilities recognised at 30 June 2004 and at 31 December 2004 have therefore been valued in accordance with the requirements of UK GAAP.
Explanation of adjustments to the cash flow statements for 2004 The cash flow statement has been prepared in conformity with IAS 7 Cash Flow Statements.
Translation differences relating to cash and cash equivalents are now highlighted on the cash flow statement, other than this the only difference from UK GAAP is presentational.
VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 93
