24 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate Governance continued The role of internal audit is to: excluding the Chairman should comprise not less than 50% of the Board: 2 the requirement that all members of assess the design and operating effectiveness of controls the Remuneration Committee are independent non-executive governing key operational processes and business risks: Directors: and 3 the requirement that a Senior Independent provide the Board with an assessment, independent of Director be nominated.
management, as to the adequacy of the Groups internal operating and financial controls, systems and practices: The reasons for non-compliance in each of the relevant areas are explained within the review of the Companys application of assist the Board in meeting its corporate governance and the principles of the Combined Code set out above.
In the areas regulatory responsibilities: and of non-compliance the Directors believe that current policy is in provide advisory services to management in order to enhance the best interests of the Company.
the control environment and improve business performance.
Going concern Whistleblowing arrangements Under company law the Companys Directors are required to During the year, a Group-wide framework was in place enabling consider whether it is appropriate to prepare Financial Statements employees to raise any concerns.
The arrangements are regularly on the basis that the Company and the Group are going concerns.
reviewed by the Audit Committee to ensure their effectiveness.
As part of its normal business practice the Group prepares annual The process has been communicated to all employees across and longer-term plans and in reviewing this information the the Group and policy and procedures issued to management of Companys Directors see no reason why the Company and the all operating units providing guidance on how they are expected Group should not remain going concerns for the foreseeable future.
Matters can be raised anonymously, and employees Therefore the Company and the Group continue to adopt the going are assured that they will have protection under the policy.
concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Corporate governance statement The Board of Directors confirm that the Company has complied Signed on behalf of the Board throughout the financial year with the majority of the provisions Judith Nicholson set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The exceptions are: Company Secretary 1 the requirement that independent non-executive Directors 2 March 2006 Statement of Directors Responsibilities UK company law requires the Directors to prepare Consolidated and accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have Parent Company Financial Statements for each financial year.
that law the Directors are required to prepare the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company EU and have elected to prepare the Parent Company Financial keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy Statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
the financial position of the Company and which enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the Companies The Consolidated Financial Statements are required by law and Act 1985.
IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as in relation to such financial statements that references in the are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity The Parent Company Financial Statements are required by law of the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that in preparing the Financial Statements on pages 34 to 86 and pages 88 to 92 the Company has used The Directors are required to prepare Financial Statements on the appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied, and supported going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all Company will continue in business.
