38 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 significant Accounting Policies Applicable to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 Basis of preparation accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006 or later From 1 January 2005, the Group is required to prepare Consolidated periods but which the Group has not early adopted, as follows: Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
IAS 21 Amendment, The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange The Group previously prepared Consolidated Financial Statements Rates effective from 1 January 2006 in accordance with UK GAAP until 31 December 2004.
The revised IAS 21 includes additional guidance explaining that the net investment denition includes loans between sister companies.
Details with respect to the Groups transition from UK GAAP The amended IAS 21 also permits intercompany items denominated to IFRS, including accounting policies used, reconciliations and in any currency to be part of a net investment in a foreign operation.
descriptions of the effect of the transition on the Groups net Previously such loans had to be denominated in the currency of a income, equity and cash ows are provided in Notes 45 and 46. party to the transaction.
The Group has not been able to early adopt this amendment, as the amended standard had not been endorsed The basis of accounting and format of presentation is subject to by the European Commission prior to the approval of the 2005 change following any further interpretative guidance that may be Consolidated Financial Statements.
Had the revisions to IAS 21 issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB been applied, most of the foreign exchange on net debt recognised and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee in the income statement for the years ended 31 December 2005 IFRIC from time to time.
The European Commission has not yet and 31 December 2004, would have instead been recognised in endorsed all of the recent amendments to the Standards or recent the statement of recognised income and expense.
In particular, the amendments contained in IAS 21 revised, The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates IAS 39 Amendment, Cash Flow Hedge Accounting of Forecast recently approved by the IASB has not been applied pending Intra-group Transactions effective from 1 January 2006 endorsement by the European Commission see below.
The amendment allows the foreign currency risk of a highly probable forecast intra-group transaction to qualify as a hedged Additionally, IFRS is being applied in the United Kingdom and item in the Consolidated Financial Statements, provided that: in a large number of countries simultaneously for the first time.
a the transaction is denominated in a currency other than the Furthermore, due to a number of new and revised standards functional currency of the entity entering into that transaction: and included within the body of standards that comprise IFRS, there b the foreign currency risk will affect consolidated profit or loss.
is not yet a significant body of established practice on which to This amendment is not relevant to the Groups operations, as the draw in forming options regarding interpretation and application.
Group does not have any intra-group transactions that would qualify Accordingly, practice is continuing to evolve.
as a hedged item in the Consolidated Financial Statements as of 31 December 2005 and 31 December 2004.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain IAS 39 Amendment, The Fair Value Option effective from 1 January 2006 financial instruments, and have been prepared in accordance This amendment changes the denition of financial instruments with the accounting policies set out below.
classied at fair value through profit or loss and restricts the ability to designate financial instruments as part of this category.
The These policies have been consistently applied to all the periods Group believes that this amendment should not have a significant presented except for those relating to the classication and impact on the classication of the Groups financial instruments.
The Group has made use of the exemption under IFRS 1, First Time Adoption of International IAS 39 and IFRS 4 Amendment, Financial Guarantee Contracts Financial Reporting Standards, to only apply IAS 32, Financial effective from 1 January 2006 Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, and IAS 39, Financial This amendment requires issued financial guarantees, other than Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, with effect from those previously asserted by the entity to be insurance contracts, 1 January 2005.
The policies applied to the Consolidated Financial to be initially recognised at their fair value and subsequently Statements for 2004 and 2005 are disclosed separately below.
measured at the higher of: a the unamortised balance of the related fees received and deferred: and b the expenditure required The impact of the implementation of IAS 32 and IAS 39 on equity to settle the commitment at the balance sheet date.
Management as at 1 January 2005 is provided in Note 47. considered this amendment to IAS 39 and concluded that it is not relevant to the Group.
The Group has also elected to early adopt IAS 19 Amendment, Employee Benets.
This amendment introduces the option for IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, and a complementary actuarial gains and losses on retirement benefit obligations to amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements Capital be recognised in full in the statement of recognised income and Disclosures effective from 1 January 2007 expense in the period in which they occur.
The Group has applied IFRS 7 introduces new disclosures to improve the information this option in the Consolidated Financial Statements for both the about financial instruments.
It requires the disclosure of qualitative year ended 31 December 2005 and the comparative period.
and quantitative information about exposure to risks arising from financial instruments, including specified minimum disclosures Standards, interpretations and amendments to published about credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk, including sensitivity standards that are not yet effective analysis to market risk.
It replaces IAS 30, Disclosures in the Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing Financial Statements of Banks and Similar Financial Institutions, standards have been published that are mandatory for the Groups and disclosure requirements in IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Avis Europe plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Disclosure and Presentation.
It is applicable to all entities that been consolidated.
The main subsidiary undertakings with such report under IFRS.
The amendment to IAS 1 introduces disclosures non-coterminous year ends are Avis Location fide Voitures sas and about the level of an entitys capital and how it manages capital.
In the opinion of the Directors, the expense The Group assessed the impact of IFRS 7 and the amendment to of providing additional coterminous statutory accounts, together IAS 1 and concluded that the main additional disclosures will be with consequential delay in producing the Consolidated Financial the sensitivity analysis to market risk and the capital disclosures Statements, would outweigh any benefit to the shareholders.
required by the amendment of IAS 1.
The Group will apply IFRS 7 and the amendment to IAS 1 from annual periods beginning Subsidiary undertakings 1 January 2007.
Subsidiary undertakings are those entities in which the Group has, directly or indirectly, an interest of more than half of the voting rights IFRIC 4, Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease or otherwise has the power to exercise control over the operations, effective from 1 January 2006 are consolidated.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date that IFRIC 4 requires the determination of whether an arrangement control is transferred to the Group and are no longer consolidated is or contains a lease to be based on the substance of the from the date that control ceases.
It requires an assessment of whether: a fullment balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specic asset companies are eliminated upon consolidation.
or assets the asset : and b the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
Management is currently assessing the impact Joint ventures of IFRIC 4 on the Groups operations, but does not expect this to Interests in jointly controlled entities including joint ventures affect how the Group currently classies its leasing arrangements.
are recognised using the equity method.
Unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2 effective from 1 May 2006 are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint IFRIC 8 is not relevant to the Groups operations as the only shareventures.
The Groups investment in joint ventures includes goodwill based payments issued by the Group are in relation to employee on acquisition.
The Groups share of profit from joint ventures services which are already accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2. represents the Groups share of the joint ventures profit after tax.
If the Groups share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds Other its investment in the joint venture, the Group does not recognise The following standards and interpretations have also been issued, further losses unless it has incurred obligations or made payments but all are deemed not relevant to the Groups operations: on behalf of the joint venture.
a IFRS 1 Amendment, First-time Adoption of International Associate undertaking Financial Reporting Standards effective from 1 January 2006.
Investments in the associate undertaking are accounted for using b IFRS 6, Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources the equity method.
This is an undertaking over which the Group effective from 1 January 2006. has significant inuence but not control, generally accompanied by a share of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
The c IFRIC 5, Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning, Groups share of profit from the associate represents the Groups Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds effective share of the associates profit after tax.
from 1 January 2006. d IFRIC 6, Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specic Underlying measures Market Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment effective In addition to the reported profit and earnings per share, the from 1 December 2005.
Group also discloses underlying performance measures, including underlying profit and underlying earnings per share.
The Group e IFRIC 7, Financial Reporting in Hyperinationary Countries believes that these underlying performance measures provide effective from 1 March 2006. additional useful information on underlying trends to shareholders.
The term underlying is not dened under IFRS, and may therefore Functional currency not be comparable with similarly titled profit measurements The Companys functional currency is sterling.
As a significant reported by other companies.
It is not intended to be a substitute proportion of the Groups revenues, costs, assets and funding arise for, or superior to, IFRS measures of profit.
in euro, the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group are presented in euro.
The Parent Companys Financial Statements are Underlying measures are calculated based on reported profit presented in sterling.
before exceptional items, certain re-measurement items and adjustments to reect the realised gains and losses on foreign Basis of consolidation exchange forward contracts and accrued interest cash ows The Consolidated Financial Statements comprise a consolidation on any financial instruments economic hedge adjustments.
of the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Exceptional items The accounting reference dates of certain of the Groups subsidiary Exceptional items are material non-recurring items that derive from undertakings and its associated undertaking are governed by local events or transactions that fall within the ordinary activities of the requirements and are not coterminous with the Groups 31 December Group, and which individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate, year end.
For those companies with non-coterminous year ends, are separately disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence.
management accounts for the relevant period to 31 December have 40 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 significant Accounting Policies continued Applicable to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 Certain re-measurement items c the stage of completion of the transaction at the balance sheet Items that represent the certain re-measurement of underlying date can be measured reliably: and assets or liabilities for example due to interest rate or exchange d the cost incurred for the transaction and the costs to complete rate changes are presented as certain re-measurement items.
the transaction can be measured reliably.
Events which may give rise to the classication of these certain re-measurement items include the following: Cost of sales a Recognised fair value gains and losses on derivatives in Cost of sales includes selling, revenue related costs e. g. accordance with the financial instruments and hedge accounting commissions and credit card fees and vehicle costs.
to vehicle costs from suppliers are credited over the holding period of the related vehicles.
Any such contributions dependent on b Exchange gains and losses arising upon the translation of foreign performance criteria are recognised in the income statement only to currency borrowings at the closing rate.
the extent that it is considered probable that the criteria will be met.
c Actuarial gains and losses arising on dened benefit retirement benefit schemes.
Finance costs Finance costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which Economic hedge adjustments they are incurred.
Under IAS 39, the Group applies hedge accounting to hedge relationships primarily forward exchange contracts, cross currency Share-based payments interest rate swaps, interest rate swaps and forward exchange Share-based payments are exclusively made in connection with contracts where it is permissible and practicable to do so.
Due employee stock option plans ESOPs.
to the nature of its economic hedging relationships, in a number of circumstances the Group is unable to apply hedge accounting IFRS 2, Share-Based Payment, is not applied to shares, share to these derivatives.
The Group continues, however, to enter into options or other equity instruments that were granted before or these arrangements as they provide certainty of the exchange rates on 7 November 2002 and which had not vested at 1 January 2005. applying to the foreign currency transactions entered into by the Equity-settled ESOPs granted after that date are accounted for in Group and the interest rate on the Groups debt.
These arrangements accordance with IFRS 2, such that the fair value of the employee result in xed and determined cash ows.
The Group believes that service received in exchange for the grant of the option is these arrangements remain effective economic and commercial recognised in the income statement over the related performance hedges, and therefore adjustment is made to reported profit period.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period measures such that underlying profit reects full application is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, of hedge accounting.
excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example profitability growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions Segment reporting are included in assumptions about the number of options that are The Groups primary reporting format is business segments and expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, its secondary format is geographical segments.
A business the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are segment is a component of the Group that is engaged in providing expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact of the a group of related products and services, and is subject to risks revision of original estimates in the income statement, with a and returns that are different from those other business segments.
A geographical segment is a component of the Group that operates within a particular economic environment and this is subject to risks The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction and returns that are different from those of components operating costs are credited to share capital and share premium when the in other economic environments.
Revenue Goodwill Revenue includes vehicle rental income, fees from the provision Business combinations are accounted for by applying the of services incidental to vehicle rental, and fees receivable from purchase method.
The excess of the cost of the business licensees, net of discounts and excluding inter-company sales, combination over the acquirers interest in the net fair value value added and sales taxes.
of the identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, recognised in accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations, When the outcome of a transaction involving the rendering of constitutes goodwill, and is recognised as an asset.
Where this services can be estimated reliably, revenue associated with the excess is negative, it is recognised immediately in the income transaction is recognised by reference to the stage of completion statement.
Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is included in of the transaction at the balance sheet date.
Goodwill on acquisition of associates and joint ventures a transaction can be estimated reliably when all the following is included in Investments accounted for using equity method.
conditions are satisfied: After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any a the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: accumulated impairment losses, until disposal or termination b it is probable that the economic benets associated with the of the previously acquired business including planned disposal transaction will ow to the Group: or termination where there are indications that the value of the goodwill has been permanently impaired, when the profit or loss Avis Europe plc 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 on disposal or termination will be calculated after charging the book a Buildings: 40 to 50 years: amount, at current exchange rates, of any such goodwill through b Plant and equipment: 3 to 15 years: the income statement.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually, and whenever there are indications that goodwill may c IT equipment: 2 to 7 years: have become impaired.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating d Leased assets: depending on the length of the lease.
units for the purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating units or group of cash-generating units Where the carrying amount of a xed asset is greater than its that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which estimated recoverable amount, it is written down immediately to the goodwill arose.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use and is determined for an Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 January 2004, the date individual asset.
of transition to International Financial Reporting Standards, has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts, subject to being Leases tested for impairment at that date.
The Groups policy up to and Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of including 28 February 1998 was to eliminate goodwill arising upon ownership are retained by the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Under IFRS 1 and IFRS 3, such goodwill will remain eliminated against reserves and is not included in Operating leases for which the Group is the lessor determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Unless the vehicles themselves are held under operating Other intangible assets leases for which the Group is the lessee, vehicles leased out under Other intangible assets are valued at cost less any accumulated operating leases are included in vehicles in the balance sheet.
They amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Costs that are depreciated over their expected useful lives.
are directly associated with identiable and unique software products controlled by the Group and which have probable Operating leases for which the Group is the lessee economic benets exceeding the cost beyond one year, are Lease payments under operating leases are recognised as expenses recognised as intangible assets.
Computer software programmes in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
are amortised on a straight-line basis over periods varying between two and five years.
Vehicles subject to manufacturer re-purchase agreements Vehicles subject to manufacturer re-purchase agreements are Vehicles not recognised as non-current assets since these arrangements Vehicles are initially measured at cost.
This cost comprises its are accounted for as operating leases lessee accounting.
The purchase price including import duties and non-refundable difference between the initial payment and the final re-purchase purchase taxes, after deducting trade discounts and rebates, price the obligation of the manufacturer is considered as a plus any costs directly attributable to bringing the vehicle to the deferred charge and is classied as prepaid vehicle operating location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating.
lease charges within trade and other receivables.
At inception After initial recognition, the vehicle is carried at its cost less any of the arrangement, a separate re-purchase agreement receivable accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
is also recognised within trade and other receivables for the final Straight-line depreciation is based on initial cost, after consideration re-purchase price.
of their expected holding periods and estimates of residual values.
Where the carrying amount of a vehicle is greater than its estimated Finance leases for which the Group is the lessee recoverable amount, it is written down immediately to its recoverable Leases of vehicles including vehicles subject to manufacturer amount.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs re-purchase arrangements, other property, plant and equipment, to sell and value in use.
where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, are classied as finance leases.
Finance leases are Other property, plant and equipment capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value Other property, plant and equipment is initially measured at cost.
of the leased property or the present value of the minimum lease This cost comprises its purchase price including import duties and payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and non-refundable purchase taxes, after deducting trade discounts the finance charge so as to achieve a constant rate of return on the and rebates, plus any costs directly attributable to bringing the finance balance outstanding.
The corresponding rental obligations, asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable net of finance charges, are included in interest-bearing liabilities.
If applicable, initial estimates of the cost of dismantling The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income and removing the item and restoring the site are also included in the statement over the lease period.
The leased assets are depreciated cost of the item.
over their expected useful lives on a basis consistent with similar owned vehicles or other property, plant and equipment.
If there is After initial recognition, the xed assets are carried at cost less any no reasonable certainty that ownership will be acquired by the end accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
of the lease term, the asset is depreciated over the shorter of the The depreciable amount of the item is allocated according to the lease term and its useful life.
straight-line method over its useful economic life.
The main useful lives are as follows: 42 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 significant Accounting Policies continued Applicable to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 Non-current assets held for sale Retirement benefit obligations Non-current assets are classied as held for sale if their carrying The Group operates various dened benefit and dened amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than contribution retirement benefit plans.
Most of these plans are through continuing use.
This condition is met when the sale is funded schemes, that is they are nanced through a pension fund highly probable, the asset is available for immediate sale in its or an external insurance policy.
The minimum funding level of these present condition, management are committed to the asset schemes is dened by national rules.
disposal, and disposal is expected to be completed within 12 months.
Non-current assets classied as held for sale cease Payments to dened contribution retirement benefit plans are to be depreciated and are measured at the lower of carrying charged as an expense as they fall due.
amount and fair value less selling costs.
The Groups commitments under dened benefit retirement benefit Inventories plans, and the related costs, are valued using the projected unit Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each value.
The cost of inventories comprises all costs of purchase, balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in costs of conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised in the inventories to their location and condition at the balance sheet statement of recognised income and expense.
Past service cost is date.
Items are valued using the first in, first out method.
When recognised immediately to the extent that the benets have already inventories are used, the carrying amount of those inventories are vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the recognised as an expense in the period in which the related revenue average period until the benets become vested.
Provision for write-downs to net realisable value and losses of inventories are recognised as an expense in the period in The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet which the write-down or loss occurs.
Reversals are recognised as represents the present value of the dened benefit obligation as a reduction in the amount of inventories recognised as an expense reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting in the period in which the reversal occurs.
from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of any refunds and reductions in future contributions Trade and other receivables to the plan.
The current service costs and gains and losses on Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost using settlements and curtailments are included in operating expenses the effective interest method as reduced by appropriate allowances in the income statement.
Taxation Cash and cash equivalents The current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Cash comprises cash in hand, demand deposits and bank Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income overdrafts.
Cash equivalents include short-term, highly liquid statement because it excludes items of income or expense that investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash are taxable or deductible in other years, and it further excludes and which are subject to an insignicant risk of changes in value.
items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted on the balance sheet.
or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
Trade and other payables Current tax for current and prior periods, to the extent unpaid, Trade and other payables are measured at amortised cost using are recognised as a liability.
If the amount already paid in respect the effective interest method.
of current and prior periods exceeds the amount due for those periods, the excess is recognised as a current asset.
The benefit Provisions relating to a tax loss that can be carried back to recover current A provision is recognised when there is a present obligation legal tax of a previous period is recognised as a current asset.
or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outow of resources embodying economic benets will be required Deferred tax is provided in full using the balance sheet liability to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the method, on temporary differences between the carrying amount amount of the obligation.
If these conditions are not met, no of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the provision is recognised.
corresponding tax bases for taxation purposes.
Deferred taxes are not calculated on the following temporary differences: i the initial Uninsured losses are recognised when the underlying event occurs.
recognition of goodwill and ii the initial recognition of assets and Accruals are made for uninsured losses notied and provisions liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit.
The are made for claims incurred but not reported at each year end.
amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected basis Recoveries of amounts claimed from insurers to settle expenses of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and incurred are recognised when it is virtually certain that liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the reimbursement will be received.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available Provisions are measured at the value of the expenditures expected against which the unused tax losses and credits can be utilised.
to be required to settle the obligation.
Deferred tax assets previously recognised are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Avis Europe plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement ceased to be a hedge, then any gain or loss was taken to the except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to income statement.
equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
b Options on cross currency or interest rate swaps were used either to hedge borrowings or as a means of entering into a swap Foreign currency translation as a hedge at a pre-determined target rate: premiums paid or The Group consolidation is prepared in sterling.
Income statements received for such options were accounted for over the life of the of foreign operations are translated into sterling at the weighted relevant transaction, or, if immaterial and no transaction took average exchange rates for the period and balance sheets are place, were recognised in the income statement upon exercise translated into sterling at the exchange rate ruling on the balance or at maturity of the option contract.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as local currency assets and c Cross currency swaps were included in the Consolidated liabilities of the foreign entity and are translated at the closing rate.
Financial Statements at the rate of exchange ruling on the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising were dealt with Foreign currency transactions are accounted for at the exchange in accordance with the accounting policy on foreign currencies.
rate prevailing at the date of the transactions.
Gains and losses Interest paid or received on cross currency swaps was recorded resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the on an accruals basis.
Apart from inclusion at the ruling rate of translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign exchange, cross currency swaps were not revalued to fair value currencies are recognised in the income statement.
Exchange at the balance sheet date.
movements arising from the re-translation at closing rates of the opening balance sheets and results of subsidiaries, joint ventures d Interest arising upon interest rate swaps, caps and collars was and associates are taken to the translation reserve.
Other exchange taken to the income statement on an accruals basis.
None of movements are taken to the income statement.
these instruments were revalued to fair value at the balance sheet date.
Premiums paid on caps and collars were recognised on an Where the Group hedges net investments in foreign operations, accruals basis.
the gains and losses relating to the effective portion of the hedging instrument is recognised in the translation reserve in equity.
The From 1 January 2005, in accordance with IAS 39, financial gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised in the instruments are recorded initially at fair value.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are measurement depends upon the designation of the instrument, included in the income statement when the foreign operation is as follows: disposed of.
a Investments other than interests in joint ventures, associates and xed deposits and short-term investments other than xed The Groups results are presented in euro.
The consolidated assets deposits are normally designated as available for sale.
and liabilities at each balance sheet date are translated into euro at the closing rate at that balance sheet date.
The consolidated b Fixed deposits, comprising principally funds held with banks income and expenses are translated into euro at the average and other financial institutions, and short-term borrowings and monthly exchange rates.
All resulting exchange differences are overdrafts are classied as loans and receivables and are held taken to the translation reserve.
c Derivatives, comprising interest rate swaps, foreign exchange Equity contracts, cross currency interest rate swaps, options and Where the Company or its subsidiaries re-acquires its own equity embedded derivatives, are classied as derivative financial instruments, those instruments are deducted from equity as instruments.
Where such equity instruments are subsequently sold, any consideration received is recognised in equity.
d Long-term loans are generally held at amortised cost.
Dividend distribution The fair values of derivative financial instruments are determined Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised on the basis of market forward interest, exchange rates, and option as a liability in the Consolidated Financial Statements in the period valuation techniques at the balance sheet date.
Changes in fair value in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Financial instruments and hedge accounting From 1 January 2004 to 31 December 2004 financial instruments Cash flow hedges used as hedges in the nancing and financial risk management of Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that the Group were accounted for as follows: are designated and effective as hedges of future cash ows are recognised directly in equity and any ineffective portion is a Forward foreign exchange contracts which hedged currency recognised immediately in the income statement.
If the cash ow assets and liabilities were recognised in the financial statements hedge is a rm commitment or the forecasted transaction results together with the assets and liabilities they hedged.
The contract in the recognition of an asset or a liability, then, at the time the rate was used for translation.
Foreign exchange contracts which asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on hedged future sales and purchases were not recognised in the the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are Consolidated Financial Statements until the transaction they included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For hedged was itself recognised.
If a foreign exchange contract 44 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 significant Accounting Policies continued Applicable to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, Goodwill amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement As required by IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, the Group regularly in the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
monitors the carrying value of its assets, including goodwill.
Impairment reviews compare the carrying values to the present When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge value of future cash ows that are derived from the relevant no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative asset or cash-generating unit.
These reviews therefore depend gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is on management estimates and judgements, in particular in relation recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised to the forecasting of future cash ows and the discount rate applied in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer to the cash ows see Note 10. expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are those that, by virtue of their size or incidence, Fair value hedges should be separately disclosed in the income statement.
The For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair value of determination of which items should be separately disclosed as a hedged item, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value operating exceptional items requires judgement.
attributable to the risk being hedged with a corresponding entry in the income statement.
Gains or losses from re-measuring the Fleet derivative, or for non-derivatives, the foreign currency component Given the nature of the Groups business, the main asset in the of its carrying amount, are also recognised in the income statement.
balance sheet is the vehicle eet.
The majority of eet is held under manufacturer re-purchase arrangements, which guarantee If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, a disposal value at the end of the holding period.
However, a the adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which proportion of eet has no such contractual protection and therefore the effective interest method is used, is amortised to the income the value at the end of the rental life will depend on the market for statement over the period to maturity.
those vehicles at the time of disposal.
Judgement is therefore required in the estimation of disposal value.
Embedded derivatives Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host Post-employment benefits contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and Application of IAS 19, Employee Benets, requires the exercise characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts, of judgement in relation to setting the assumptions used by the and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised actuaries in assessing the financial position of each scheme.
The gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Group determines the assumptions to be adopted in discussion with its actuaries, and believes these assumptions to be in line with The impact of this change in accounting policy is detailed in Note 47.
UK generally accepted practice, but the application of different assumptions could have a significant effect on the amounts Critical accounting policies and judgements reected in the income statement and balance sheet in respect The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements requires of post-employment benets.
In particular, the dened benefit management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the obligation for funded schemes is forecast to vary by approximately reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, 4 million for each 0.1% movement in either the applied discount and disclosure of contingencies at the date of the Consolidated rate or ination rate.
Similarly, the dened benefit obligation for Financial Statements.
If in the future such estimates and unfunded schemes is forecast to vary by approximately 0.8 million assumptions, which are based on managements best judgement for each 0.1% movement in either the discount rate or ination rate.
at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements, deviate from the actual circumstances, the original estimates and assumptions Provisions will be modied, as appropriate, in the period in which the The Group continues to carry balance sheet provisions in a circumstances change.
The following policies are considered to number of areas against exposures that arise in the normal course be of greater complexity and or particularly subject to the exercise of trading.
These provisions cover areas such as uninsured losses, of judgement: termination and reorganisation activities and property dilapidation reserves.
Judgement is involved in assessing the exposures in these areas and hence in setting the level of the required provision.
