Avis Europe plc 89 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 significant Accounting Policies Applicable to the Parent Company Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 Basis of preparation c Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are The Companys functional currency is sterling, and the balance regarded as recoverable.
Assets are regarded as recoverable sheet and related notes are presented in sterling.
when it is regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the Basis of accounting and principal accounting policies underlying timing differences can be deducted.
The Parent Company Financial Statements set out on pages 88 to d Deferred tax is not recognised on permanent differences.
92 have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
A summary Foreign currency of the principal accounting policies is set out below.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the year end.
Transactions during the year are In preparing the Parent Company Financial Statements, FRS 20, recorded at rates of exchange in effect when the transaction occurs.
Share-Based Payments: FRS 21, Events After The Balance Sheet Date: FRS 23, The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates: Dividend distribution FRS 25, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation: and Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as FRS 26, Financial Instruments: Measurement, have been adopted in a liability in the Parent Company Financial Statements in the period in 2005.
As a result of the adoption of the above accounting standards, which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
restatements have been made to the corresponding amounts as set out in the Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements.
As Share-based payments permitted, FRS 25 and FRS 26 have been adopted from 1 January Share-based payments are exclusively made in connection with 2005, with no restatement to the corresponding amounts.
employee stock option plans ESOPs.
Fixed asset investments FRS 20, Share-Based Payments, is not applied to shares, share Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision for any options or other equity instruments that were granted before or on impairment where the recoverable amount is less than cost.
7 November 2002 and which had not vested at 1 January 2005.
Equity-settled ESOPs granted after that date are accounted for in Deferred taxation accordance with FRS 20, such that the fair value of the employee Deferred tax is provided using the incremental liability approach and service received in exchange for the grant of the option is is measured on a non-discounted basis at the average tax rates that recognised in the income statement over the related performance are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences period.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws substantively is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for respect of timing differences that have originated but not reversed example profitability growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions by the balance sheet date except that: are included in assumptions about the number of options that are a Deferred tax is not recognised on the revaluation of non-monetary expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, assets such as property unless a binding sale agreement exists the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are at the balance sheet date.
Where rollover relief is available on expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact of an asset then deferred tax is in any case not recognised.
the revision of original estimates in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
b Deferred tax is not recognised on unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures unless The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction dividends have been accrued as receivable or there is a binding costs are credited to share capital and share premium when the agreement to distribute past earnings at the balance sheet date.
