Avis Europe plc 87 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Independent Auditors Report to the Shareholders of Avis Europe plc on the Parent Company Financial Statements Introduction Basis of audit opinion We have audited the Parent Company Financial Statements of Avis We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Europe plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
the Balance Sheet, the significant Accounting Policies, and the An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant related notes.
These Parent Company Financial Statements have to the amounts and disclosures in the Parent Company Financial been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We Statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
have also audited the information in the Remuneration Report that It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and is described as having been audited.
judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting We have reported separately on the Consolidated Financial policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, Statements of Avis Europe plc for the year ended 31 December 2005. consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the information and explanations which we considered necessary Remuneration Report and the Parent Company Financial Statements in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting assurance that the Parent Company Financial Statements and the Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting part of the Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of Our responsibility is to audit the Parent Company Financial the presentation of information in the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited Statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, Opinion including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the In our opinion: Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 the Parent Company Financial Statements give a true and fair of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into at 31 December 2005: and whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared We report to you our opinion as to whether the Parent Company in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Financial Statements give a true and fair view and whether the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the  LLP Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to London you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with 2 March 2006 the Parent Company Financial Statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all Notes the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if a The maintenance and integrity of the Avis Europe plc website information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the and other transactions is not disclosed.
Auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes We read other information contained in the Annual Report and that may have occurred to the report since it was initially consider whether it is consistent with the audited Parent Company presented on the website.
The other information comprises only the b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Financial dissemination of financial information may differ from legislation Review, the Corporate and Social Responsibility Statement, the in other jurisdictions.
Directors Listing, the Corporate Governance Statement, the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report, and the Five Year Summary.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Parent Company Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
