Directors Responsibility Statement To the shareholders of Cookson Group plc Risks associated with forward looking statements The Directors of Cookson Group plc are responsible for preparing the This Annual Report contains certain forward looking statements Annual Report and the financial statements of the parent company about Cookson.
Although the Company believes its expectations only the Company and of the Company and its subsidiaries are based on reasonable assumptions, any such statements may be the Group, in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
influenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and results Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and to be materially different from those predicted.
These forward Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting such statements, certain of which are beyond the control of Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and have elected to Cookson, including, among other things: changes in general prepare the Company financial statements in accordance with UK economic conditions: exchange rate fluctuations: the impact of Accounting Standards.
trading conditions in those markets in which Cooksons businesses The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs operate, including those related to competition, price controls and as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and price reductions: exposure to environmental liability: and the risks performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in related to the integration of large business acquisitions.
relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and On behalf of the Board fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view if the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Mike Butterworth, Group Finance Director consistently: 14 March 2006 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Cookson Group plc { 46 } Annual Report 2005
