Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Cookson Group plc is a public limited company registered in England and Wales and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Its registered address is shown on page 112.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Operating Review on pages 12 to 21.
The financial statements, which were authorised by the Directors for issue on 14 March 2006, are presented in millions of pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 3.5.
ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The financial statements of the parent company-only have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP, as disclosed in note 47.
The Company has taken advantage of exemptions available in IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, in relation to actuarial gains and losses, business combinations, financial instruments and cumulative translation differences, details of which can be found in note 45.
The Company has adopted IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, and IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, with effect from 1 January 2005.
The adjustments required as at 1 January 2005 to the 31 December 2004 consolidated balance sheet on the introduction of IAS 32 and IAS 39 have been dealt with as a change in accounting policy and are detailed in note 45.
The other disclosures required by IFRS 1, explaining how the transition to IFRS has affected the reported financial performance, cash flows and financial position of the Group, are also dealt with in note 45.
The Company has adopted early the amendment to IAS 19, Employee Benefits, allowing actuarial gains or losses to be recognised directly in the Group statement of income and expense in the period in which they arise.
IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, was issued in August 2005 and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
It revises and enhances previous disclosures required by IAS 32 and IAS 30, Disclosures in the Financial Statements of Banks and Similar Financial Institutions.
The adoption of IFRS 7 will have no impact upon the results or net assets of the Group.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 3.
1 BASIS OF ACCOUNTING The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and IFRS.
With the exception of certain items noted below, which are carried at fair value, the financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention.
3.2 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries.
Control exists when the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those detailed herein to ensure that the Group financial statements are prepared on a consistent basis.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
Minority interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the minoritys share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Losses applicable to the minority in excess of the minoritys interest in the subsidiarys equity are allocated against the interests of the Group except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
Cookson Group plc { 51 } Annual Report 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 3.3 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of acquisition, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3, Business Combinations, are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5, Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the recognised identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
If the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the minoritys proportion of the net fair value of the recognised assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
3.4 TAXATION The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the associated deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
3.5 FOREIGN CURRENCIES The individual financial statements of each Group entity are prepared in their functional currency, which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which that entity operates.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each entity are translated into pounds sterling, which is the presentational currency of the Group.
a Reporting foreign currency transactions in functional currency Transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are initially recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each subsequent balance sheet date: i Foreign currency monetary items are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement or retranslation of monetary items are recognised in the income statement: ii Non-monetary items measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated: and iii Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are retranslated using the exchange rates at the date the fair value was determined.
Where a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised directly in equity, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity and conversely, where a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised in the income statement, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised in the income statement.
Cookson Group plc { 52 } Annual Report 2005 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 3.5 FOREIGN CURRENCIES continued b Translation from functional currency to presentation currency When the functional currency of a Group entity is different from the Groups presentational currency pounds sterling, its results and financial position are translated into the presentational currency as follows: i Assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date: ii Income and expense items are translated at average exchange rates for the year, except where the use of such an average rate does not approximate the exchange rate at the date of the transaction, in which case the transaction rate is used: and iii All resulting exchange differences are recognised in translation reserves as a separate component of equity and are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the foreign operation is disposed of.
c Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences arising on a monetary item that forms part of a reporting entitys net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in the income statement in the separate financial statements of the reporting entity or the foreign operation as appropriate.
In the consolidated Group accounts such exchange differences are initially recognised in translation reserves as a separate component of equity and subsequently recognised in the income statement on disposal of the net investment.
3.6 REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for goods supplied and services rendered to customers, after deducting sales allowances and value-added taxes.
Revenue is recognised when the risk of loss transfers to the customer, depending on individual customer terms at the time of despatch, delivery or upon formal customer acceptance.
Provision is made for returns where appropriate.
3.7 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS The Group operates a number of pension plans, both of the defined contribution and defined benefit type.
a Defined contribution pension plans Contributions to the Groups defined contribution schemes are recognised as employee benefit expense when they fall due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that they result in either a cash refund or reduction in future payments.
Outstanding contributions are recognised as a liability within accruals.
b Defined benefit pension plans The liability recognised in the balance sheet for the Groups defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date as adjusted for any unrecognised past service cost, less the fair value of the scheme assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method and by discounting the estimated future cash flows using interest rates on high quality corporate bonds that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to any unrecognised past service costs plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Pension expense for the Groups defined benefit plans is recognised as follows: i Within trading profit: Current service cost representing the increase in the present value of the defined benefit obligation resulting from employee service in the current year: Past service cost representing the increase in the present value of the defined benefit obligation resulting from employee service in prior periods, which arise from changes made to the benefits under the plans in the current year.
To the extent that the changes to benefits vest immediately, past service costs are recognised immediately, otherwise they are recognised on a straight line basis over the vesting period: Gains and losses arising on settlements and curtailments where the item that gave rise to the settlement or curtailment is recognised within trading profit: Interest cost on the liabilities of the plans calculated by reference to the plan liabilities and discount rate at the beginning of the year and allowing for changes during the year: and Expected return on the assets of the plans calculated by reference to the plan assets and long-term expected rate of return at the beginning of the year and allowing for changes during the year.
ii Within the statement of recognised income and expense: Actuarial gains and losses arising on the assets and liabilities of the plans.
Cookson Group plc { 53 } Annual Report 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 3.7 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued c Share-based payments The Group operates a number of different share-based payment arrangements for its employees of both the equity-settled and cash-settled type.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date takes account of the effect of market-based conditions, such as the Total Shareholder Return TSR targets upon which vesting is conditioned, and is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity.
The cumulative expense recognised is adjusted for the Directors estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
For grants with market-based conditions attaching to them, fair value is measured using a form of stochastic option pricing model.
For consistency, this method has also been used to value Executive Share Options and Stock Appreciation Rights granted to executives whose options are not subject to the additional marketbased performance conditions.
For all other grants, fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes model.
For cash-settled share-based payments, the fair value of the amount payable to the employee is recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in liabilities.
The fair value of the amount payable is initially measured at grant date using a form of stochastic option pricing model and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment.
The liability is remeasured at each balance sheet date and at settlement date.
Any changes in the fair value of the liability are recognised in the income statement.
3.8 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS Expenditure on research activities is recognised in the income statement as an expense in the year in which it is incurred.
Expenditure on development activities is capitalised if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development.
All other development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense in the year in which it is incurred.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Capitalised development expenditure in 2005 was nil.
3.9 BORROWING COSTS Borrowing costs, comprising interest on bank loans, overdrafts and finance lease obligations and the costs incurred in connection with the arrangement of borrowings, are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the year in which they are incurred.
3.10 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Freehold land is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Other items of property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Subsequent costs are capitalised only when it is probable that they will result in future economic benefits flowing to the Group and when they can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Freehold land is not depreciated as it has an infinite life.
Depreciation on other items of property, plant and equipment begins when the asset is available for use and is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis so as to write off the cost less residual value of the asset over its estimated useful life as follows: Freehold property between 10 and 50 years Leasehold property the term of the lease Plant and machinery motor vehicles between 1 and 5 years information technology equipment between 1 and 5 years other between 5 and 15 years The depreciation method used, residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed and changed, if appropriate, at least at each financial year-end.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses arising on disposals are determined by comparing sales proceeds with carrying amount and are recognised in the income statement.
3.11 GOODWILL Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary or jointly controlled entity represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary or jointly controlled entity recognised at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment testing is carried out annually, as described in note 3.13.
On disposal of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Cookson Group plc { 54 } Annual Report 2005 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 3.12 INTANGIBLE ASSETS OTHER THAN GOODWILL Other intangible assets are recognised on business combinations if they are separable and their fair value can be measured reliably.
They are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
3.13 IMPAIRMENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the higher of i its fair value less costs to sell and ii its value in use, which is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset or cash-generating unit, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset or cash-generating unit.
Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement.
a Goodwill Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units for this purpose are the business segments disclosed in the segmental information note 6, which represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit prorata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
b Other tangible and intangible assets At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amount of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent, if any, of the impairment loss.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss for tangible and intangible assets other than goodwill is recognised immediately in the income statement.
3.14 INTERESTS IN JOINT VENTURES A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and one or more other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Joint control exists when the strategic financial and operating policy decisions relating to the activity require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The Group conducts its joint venture arrangements through jointly controlled entities and accounts for them using the equity method of accounting, except when the investment is classified as held for sale, in which case it is accounted for under IFRS 5.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of the Groups interest in a jointly controlled entity is accounted for in accordance with the Groups accounting policy for goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary as described in note 3.11.
Where the Group transacts with its jointly controlled entities, unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint venture.
3.15 INVENTORIES Inventories are stated at the lower of cost using the first-in, first-out method and net realisable value.
Cost comprises expenditure incurred in purchasing or manufacturing inventories together with all other costs directly incurred in bringing the inventory to its present location and condition and, where appropriate, attributable production overheads based on normal activity levels.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
The amount of any write-down of inventories to net realisable value is recognised as an expense in the year in which the write-down occurs.
In addition to the inventory recorded in the balance sheet, the Group holds precious metals under consignment arrangements, further details of which are given in note 27.
Cookson Group plc { 55 } Annual Report 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 3.16 NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS Immediately prior to being classified as held for sale the measurement of the assets and all assets and liabilities in a disposal group is brought up to date in accordance with applicable IFRS.
Then, on initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets and disposal groups are recognised at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale are included in profit or loss, as are gains and losses on subsequent remeasurement.
3.17 LEASES Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
a Finance leases Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged to the income statement.
b Operating leases Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straightline basis over the lease term.
3.18 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Group balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
a Trade receivables Trade receivables are initially measured at fair value, do not carry any interest and are reduced by appropriate provisions for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Such provisions are recognised in the income statement.
b Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, demand deposits, bank overdrafts and short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts form an integral part of the Groups cash management system.
c Trade payables Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are initially measured at their fair value.
d Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings comprise secured and unsecured loans and asset securitisation proceeds, which are initially recorded at fair value less attributable transaction costs and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, and obligations under finance leases that are dealt with in accordance with the Companys policy on leases note 3.17. e Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are initially recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
f Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments in the form of forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swaps to manage the effects of its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates on its borrowings.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
The method of recognising the gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged note 4.2.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
Cookson Group plc { 56 } Annual Report 2005 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 3.18 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued g Comparative financial instrument policy As disclosed in note 45, the Group has taken advantage of the exemption available in IFRS 1 from the requirement to restate comparative information in respect of IAS 32 and IAS 39.
The comparative information and accounting policy in respect of these items is the same as presented in the Cookson Group plc Annual Report for 2004, which was prepared under UK GAAP.
The comparative accounting policy stated that the Group primarily uses forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swaps to manage the exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates in its borrowings.
These instruments were accounted for as hedges when designated as such at the inception of contracts and, as a result, gains and losses on these foreign exchange contracts were offset against the foreign exchange gains and losses on the related financial assets and liabilities.
Interest rate swaps were not revalued to fair value or shown in the Group balance sheet at the year-end, but the fair value was disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
Interest differentials under the contracts were recognised by accruing the net interest payable as it became due.
Gains or losses arising on hedging instruments which were cancelled due to the termination of the underlying exposure were immediately taken to the profit and loss account or balance sheet as appropriate.
Translational hedges of foreign currency investments were taken to reserves.
Finance costs associated with debt issuances were charged to the profit and loss account over the life of those instruments.
3.19 PROVISIONS Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
3.20 USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES The Company uses a number of non-Generally Accepted Accounting Practice non-GAAP financial measures in addition to those reported in accordance with IFRS.
Because IFRS measures reflect all items which affect reported performance, the Directors believe that certain non-GAAP measures, which reflect what they view as the underlying performance of the Group, are important and should be considered alongside the IFRS measures.
The following non-GAAP measures are referred to in this report.
a Trading profit On the face of the Group income statement, trading profit is separately disclosed, being defined as profit from operations before the costs of rationalisation of operations, the profit or loss relating to fixed assets and the amortisation and impairment of intangibles.
The Directors believe that trading profit is an important measure of the underlying trading performance of the Group.
b Headline earnings per share Headline earnings per share is calculated as the total of trading profit, plus share of post-tax profit of joint-ventures, less net finance costs and income tax costs associated with ongoing activities, less profit attributable to minority interests, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
The Directors believe that headline earnings per share provides an important measure of the underlying earning capacity of the Group.
c Free cash flow On the face of the Group statement of cash flows, free cash flow is reported, being defined as net cash flow from operating activities after net outlays for the acquisition and disposal of fixed assets, dividends from joint ventures and dividends paid to minority shareholders, but before additional funding contributions to Group pension plans.
The Directors believe that free cash flow gives an important measure of the underlying cash-generation capacity of the Group.
d Net debt Net debt comprises the total of cash and cash equivalents and current and non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
The Directors believe that net debt is an important measure as it shows the Groups aggregate net indebtedness to banks and other external financial institutions.
Cookson Group plc { 57 } Annual Report 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 4.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 4.1 FINANCIAL RISK FACTORS a Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from transactions and borrowings that are denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling.
It uses various financial instruments to manage these exposures, as explained below.
i Forecast transactions Forward foreign exchange contracts are used to hedge against the Groups exposure to variability in cash flows that might arise from the fluctuation of exchange rates in relation to highly probable forecast transactions that are denominated in currencies other than its own functional currencies and which might affect profit or loss.
Such forward exchange contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges in accordance with the policy in note 4.2 b. ii Recognised assets and liabilities Forward foreign exchange contracts are used to hedge against the Groups exposure to changes in fair value of a recognised asset or liability that are attributable to a particular risk and which could affect profit or loss.
Such forward exchange contracts are accounted for as fair value hedges in accordance with the policy in note 4.2 a. iii Net investment hedges Forward foreign exchange contracts and debt denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling are both used to hedge against the Groups exposure to changes in the value of its investment in the net assets of its foreign operations that arise from fluctuations in exchange rates.
Such financial instruments are accounted for as net investment hedges in accordance with the policy in note 4.2 c. b Credit risk At the balance sheet date the Group had no significant concentrations of credit risk.
c Liquidity risk The Group Treasury function ensures that there are sufficient levels of committed facilities, cash and cash equivalents to ensure that the Group is at all times able to meet its financial commitments.
d Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk The Group has no significant interest-bearing assets and consequently its income and cash flows are largely independent of changes in market interest rates.
The Groups interest rate risk arises primarily from its borrowings.
An analysis of the currency and interest rate profiles of the Groups borrowings is shown in note 35.
Borrowings at floating rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk and borrowings at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The Groups policy is to borrow a mix of fixed and floating rate debt.
Where appropriate, the Group manages its interest rate exposures using interest rate swap agreements or other financial instruments.
The Group manages its cash flow interest rate risk by using interest rate swaps, which have the economic effect of changing the interest rate profile of the borrowings.
Under its interest rate swaps the Company agrees with the counterparty to exchange at specified intervals the difference between the fixed and floating rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional principal amounts.
Cookson Group plc { 58 } Annual Report 2005 4.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued 4.2 HEDGING ACTIVITIES The Group designates certain financial instruments as either: i hedges of the exposure to changes in the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities that are attributable to a particular risk and could affect profit or loss fair value hedges : ii hedges of the exposure to variability in cash flows that are attributable to a particular risk associated with a highly probable forecast transaction and could affect profit or loss cash flow hedges : or iii hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
At the inception of the transaction the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the financial instruments that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
a Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recognised within trading profit in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged assets or liabilities that are subject to the hedged risk.
b Cash flow hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity within hedging reserves.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately within trading profit in the income statement.
When the forecast transaction that was being hedged is realised and affects profit or loss, the cumulative gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement in the same period.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the nonfinancial asset or non-financial liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction takes place.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately within trading profit in the income statement.
c Net investment hedges The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge, is recognised directly in equity within translation reserves and subsequently recognised in the income statement as part of the profit or loss on disposal of the net investment.
The ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognised immediately within trading profit in the income statement.
Cookson Group plc { 59 } Annual Report 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 5.
CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY 5.1 GOODWILL The Directors use their judgement to determine the extent to which goodwill has a value that will benefit the performance of the Group over future periods.
To assist in making this judgement, the Directors undertake an assessment, at least annually, of the carrying value of the Groups capitalised goodwill, using discounted cash flow forecasts to derive the value in use to the Group of the capitalised goodwill.
In the assessment undertaken in 2005, value in use was derived from discounted 5-year cash flow projections, using a growth rate of 3% in the years beyond the projection period, and pre-tax discount rates ranging from 11-13%.
The projection period is, in the opinion of the Directors, an appropriate period over which to view the future results of the Groups businesses for this purpose.
Changes to the assumptions and discount rates used in making these forecasts could significantly alter the Directors assessment of the carrying value of goodwill.
5.2 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT It is Group policy to depreciate its property, plant and equipment assets, except freehold land, on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
This applies an appropriate matching of the revenue earned with the capital costs of production and delivery of goods and services.
A key element of this policy is the estimate of the useful life applied to each category of property, plant and equipment which, in turn, determines the annual depreciation charge.
Variations in asset lives could impact significantly Group profit through an increase or decrease in the depreciation charge.
5.3 CURRENT ASSET PROVISIONS In the course of normal trading activities, judgement is used to establish the net realisable value of various elements of working capital, principally inventory and trade receivables.
Provisions are established for obsolete or slow-moving inventories, bad or doubtful debts and product warranties.
Provision requirements are based on the facts available at the time and are also determined by using profiles, based on past practice, applied to certain aged inventory and receivables categories.
In estimating the collectability of trade receivables, judgement is required in assessing their likely realisation, including the current creditworthiness of each customer and related ageing of the past due balances.
Specific accounts are assessed in situations where a customer may not be able to meet its financial obligations due to a deterioration of its financial condition, credit ratings or bankruptcy.
5.4 ENVIRONMENTAL PROVISIONS In certain parts of the business, mainly in the US, the Group has obligations to carry out environmental clean-ups at former and current production sites.
Many of these obligations will not arise for a number of years and the costs are difficult to predict accurately.
The Directors use their judgement and experience to make provision in the accounts for an appropriate amount for the likely cost of such clean-ups.
5.5 DEFERRED TAXATION The Group has recognised deferred tax assets in respect of unutilised losses and other timing differences arising in certain of the Groups businesses, primarily in Europe and Asia.
Account has been taken of future forecasts of taxable profit in arriving at the values at which these assets are recognised.
If these forecast profits do not materialise or change, or there are changes in tax rates or to the period over which the losses or timing difference might be recognised, then the value of the deferred tax asset will need to be revised in a future period.
The Group has losses and other timing differences for which no value has been recognised for deferred tax purposes in these financial statements.
These can arise in loss-making subsidiaries where the future economic benefit of these timing differences is not probable.
It can also arise where the timing differences are of such a nature that their value is dependent only on certain types of profit being earned, such as capital profits.
If trading or other appropriate profits are earned in future in these companies, the timing differences may yield benefit to the Group in the form of a reduced tax charge.
5.6 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS The Groups financial statements include the costs and obligations associated with the provision of pension and other postretirement benefits to current and former employees.
It is the Directors responsibility to set the assumptions used in determining the key elements of the costs of meeting such future obligations.
These assumptions are set after consultation with the Groups actuaries and include those used to determine regular service costs and the financing elements related to the plans assets and liabilities.
Whilst the Directors believe that the assumptions used are appropriate, a change in the assumptions used would affect Group profit and financial position.
Cookson Group plc { 60 } Annual Report 2005 6.
SEGMENT INFORMATION 6.1 PRIMARY REPORTING FORMAT BUSINESS SEGMENTS For management reporting purposes the Group is organised into three main business segments, Ceramics, Electronics and Precious Metals.
These segments form the basis of the primary reporting format disclosures below.
The principal activities of each of these segments is described in the Operating Review on pages 12 to 21.
Segment revenue represents revenue to external customers and is stated after the elimination of inter-segment revenue, which is immaterial.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment assets exclude cash and cash equivalents, deferred tax assets, income tax recoverable, investments in joint ventures and corporate assets that cannot be allocated on a reasonable basis to a business segment.
These items are shown collectively in the following tables as unallocated assets.
Segment liabilities exclude interest-bearing loans and borrowings, employee benefit obligations, deferred tax liabilities, income tax payable and corporate liabilities that cannot be allocated on a reasonable basis to a business segment.
These items are shown collectively in the following tables as unallocated liabilities.
Assembly Electronics Precious Discontinued 2005 Materials Chemistry Total Ceramics Metals operations Total m m m m m m m Segment revenue 273.4 215.5 488.9 746.1 245.8 153.8 1,634.6 Segment result 24.5 26.6 51.1 73.9 7.0 6.7 138.7 Rationalisation of operating activities 0.8 2.2 3.0 8.1 1.4 5.1 17.6 Amortisation and impairment of intangibles 0.8 0.8 Profit loss relating to fixed assets 0.3 1.5 1.2 0.1 1.9 0.6 Profit from operations before corporate costs 24.0 22.9 46.9 65.7 5.6 2.7 120.9 Corporate costs 8.5 Corporate rationalisation costs 0.9 Corporate loss relating to fixed assets 0.6 Group profit from operations 110.9 Segment assets 173.7 277.2 450.9 637.6 134.6 92.9 1,316.0 Unallocated assets 117.3 Total Group assets 1,433.3 Segment liabilities 49.0 58.4 107.4 171.0 22.2 52.4 353.0 Unallocated liabilities 618.6 Total Group liabilities 971.6 Other segment information: Capital expenditure property, plant and equipment 2.8 3.5 6.3 30.4 2.4 3.9 43.0 Depreciation 6.8 4.4 11.2 24.6 3.6 7.7 47.1 Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 1.0 1.0 0.4 1.4 Investments in joint ventures 8.4 8.4 4.7 13.1 Cookson Group plc { 61 } Annual Report 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 6.
SEGMENT INFORMATION continued 6.1 PRIMARY REPORTING FORMAT BUSINESS SEGMENTS continued Assembly Electronics Precious Discontinued 2004 Materials Chemistry Total Ceramics Metals operations Total m m m m m m m Segment revenue 257.7 215.8 473.5 739.3 287.7 152.0 1,652.5 Segment result 19.7 27.3 47.0 59.4 10.8 6.6 123.8 Rationalisation of operating activities 0.2 0.8 1.0 2.9 9.9 8.9 22.7 Amortisation and impairment of intangibles 0.8 0.8 Profit loss relating to fixed assets 1.1 1.1 1.1 Profit from operations before corporate costs 19.5 27.6 47.1 56.5 0.9 3.1 101.4 Corporate costs 8.9 Corporate loss relating to fixed assets 17.9 Group profit from operations 74.6 Segment assets 169.2 269.2 438.4 588.0 132.0 137.8 1,296.2 Unallocated assets 109.7 Total Group assets 1,405.9 Segment liabilities 47.4 68.6 116.0 186.4 24.9 59.6 386.9 Unallocated liabilities 575.9 Total Group liabilities 962.8 Other segment information: Capital expenditure property, plant and equipment 4.2 2.9 7.1 25.1 2.5 7.6 42.3 Depreciation 7.6 4.2 11.8 23.7 4.1 7.3 46.9 Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 2.2 2.2 0.1 2.3 Investments in joint ventures 12.8 12.8 1.9 14.7 6.2 SECONDARY REPORTING FORMAT GEOGRAPHICAL SEGMENTS Segment revenue Segment assets Capital expenditure 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 m m m m m m Europe 512.3 558.8 391.0 409.4 14.6 12.9 NAFTA 528.7 547.2 536.3 494.6 11.5 10.5 Asia-Pacific 331.8 303.5 237.9 200.7 10.0 9.1 Rest of the World 108.0 91.0 57.9 53.7 3.0 2.2 Discontinued operations 153.8 152.0 92.9 137.8 3.9 7.6 Unallocated 117.3 109.7 Total Group 1,634.6 1,652.5 1,433.3 1,405.9 43.0 42.3 Segment revenue by geographical segment represents revenue from external customers based upon the geographical location of the customer.
The analyses of segment assets and capital expenditure are based upon the location of the assets.
Cookson Group plc { 62 } Annual Report 2005 7.
EXPENSES BY NATURE The following items have been charged credited in arriving at trading profit: 2005 2004 m m Cost of sales 1,181.4 1,202.9 Depreciation note 21 47.1 46.9 ase payments under leases and sub-leases 16.5 21.2 Minimum le Employee benefit expense note 12 430.1 445.8 Auditors remuneration note 8 3.0 3.0 Foreign exchange differences 2.0 1.2 Research and development expenditure 22.3 24.3 8.
AMOUNTS PAYABLE TO KPMG AUDIT PLC AND ITS ASSOCIATES 2005 2004 m m Audit fees statutory audit 2.1 2.0 Further assurance services 0.4 0.4 Tax services compliance services 0.1 0.2 advisory services 0.4 0.4 Total auditors remuneration 3.0 3.0 Statutory audit fees are those charged in connection with the Group audit and local statutory requirements.
The fee for the audit of the Company is 0.4m 2004: 0.3m.
Further assurance services principally include advisory-related work, notably in connection with the Companys transition to IFRS.
Of the total fees for further assurance and tax services 0.5m 2004: 0.5m were charged in the UK.
RATIONALISATION OF OPERATING ACTIVITIES The charge of 18.5m 2004: 22.7m was the result of the implementation of a number of initiatives aimed at reducing the Groups cost base and realigning its manufacturing capacity with its customer markets.
The initiatives implemented included redundancy programmes, the consolidation of facilities, plant closures, the streamlining of manufacturing processes and the rationalisation of product lines.
Of these rationalisation charges, 3.0m 2004: 6.3m represented asset write-downs, the majority of which were in Europe and Asia-Pacific.
Total cash spend in respect of these rationalisation charges was 17.0m 2004: 14.2m, leaving aggregate provisions made but unspent of 12.7m as at 31 December 2005 2004: 15.1m.
The net taxation credit attributable to these rationalisation costs was 5.7m 2004: 1.0m.
AMORTISATION AND IMPAIRMENT OF INTANGIBLES The 0.8m expense 2004: 0.8m relates to the amortisation of a licence agreement in the Laminates business, which was being amortised over its 10-year useful life.
As from 31 December 2005 the licence has been reclassified to held for sale on the balance sheet, is carried at fair value less costs to sell and will no longer be amortised.
The tax charge associated with the amortisation expense in the year was nil 2004: nil.
Goodwill arising on consolidation is not amortised under IFRS, but is subject to annual impairment reviews.
Amortisation of this goodwill is, however, tax deductible in certain jurisdictions, which has the effect of generating a deferred tax liability that will continue to grow in future periods, until such time as the tax deductions cease or the goodwill asset is written-off on disposal of the underlying business or as a result of impairment charges.
The tax charge arising on this item in 2005 was 3.5m 2004: 4.1m.
LOSS PROFIT RELATING TO FIXED ASSETS There was no net loss profit for the Group during 2005 in relation to the sale of fixed assets, as the net loss of 1.9m in the Groups continuing operations was matched by a profit of 1.9m in the discontinued Laminates business.
The net loss on fixed assets of 16.8m in 2004 included an impairment charge of 17.9m relating to the Groups investment in a 20-year revenue-sharing arrangement with Electric Lightwave, Inc. During 2004, it became clear that the minimum guaranteed revenues accruing to the Group under the terms of the revenue-sharing agreement were not likely to be fully recoverable in the future.
As a result, the Groups investment was reassessed using a discounted cash flow model with a pre-tax discount rate of 12% and an impairment charge of 17.9m was recognised.
Other sales of fixed assets during 2004 resulted in a profit of 1.1m.
The net taxation charge attributable to the sale of fixed assets was nil 2004: nil.
Cookson Group plc { 63 } Annual Report 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 12.
EMPLOYEES Employee benefit expense 2005 2004 m m Wages and salaries 364.7 376.8 Social security costs 39.5 43.7 note 37 3.2 2.2 Share-based payments Pension costs defined contribution plans note 36 7.9 7.5 defined benefit plans note 36 12.1 11.8 Other post-retirement benefits note 36 1.8 1.9 Total employee benefit expense 429.2 443.9 Of the total employee benefit expense of 429.2m 2004: 443.9m, 430.1m 2004: 455.8m was charged in arriving at trading profit and 0.9m 2004: 1.9m was credited in arriving at net post-tax loss on disposal of operations.
Average number of employees 2005 2004 No.
Ceramics 9,138 9,356 Assembly Materials 1,673 1,752 Chemistry 1,286 1,320 Electronics 2,959 3,072 Precious Metals 1,848 2,098 Discontinued operations 1,829 1,796 Total Group 15,774 16,322 Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the executive Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 44.
2005 2004 m m Short-term employee benefits 2.6 3.8 Post-employment benefits 0.4 0.6 Share-based payments 0.5 0.3 Total remuneration of key management personnel 3.5 4.7 13.
NET FINANCE COSTS 2005 2004 m m Interest receivable 2.1 3.4 Interest payable Bank loans and overdrafts 31.0 29.6 Convertible bonds 4.7 Obligations under finance leases 0.3 0.3 Amortisation of capitalised borrowing costs 0.5 1.0 31.8 35.6 Net finance costs from ongoing activities 29.7 32.2 Income from swap close-out 5.4 Write-off of capitalised borrowing costs 1.2 Net finance costs income from other activities 1.2 5.4 Total net finance costs 30.9 26.8 Cookson Group plc { 64 } Annual Report 2005 14.
INCOME TAX COSTS 2005 2004 m m Current tax: UK corporation tax 8.8 16.3 Double tax relief 8.6 16.1 Overseas taxation 21.8 20.6 Adjustments in respect of prior years 4.1 6.3 Total current tax 26.1 14.5 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary taxable differences includes 0.2m credit 2004: 0.3m charge relating to prior year 0.1 12.9 Arising from the write-down of deferred tax assets and release of fair value tax provisions 16.6 4.8 Total deferred tax 16.7 17.7 Total income tax costs 42.8 32.2 The Groups income tax expense of 42.8m 2004: 32.2m includes 14.4m 2004: 7.9m of expense on other activities, comprising a write-down of deferred tax assets of 16.6m 2004: 10.0m following a reassessment of expected future geographical profit contributions, a 5.7m credit 2004: credit 1.0m in relation to rationalisation costs note 9 and a charge of 3.5m 2004: 4.1m in relation to the different treatment of goodwill amortisation for tax and reporting purposes note 10.
The comparative figure for 2004 also includes a credit of 5.2m arising on the release of fair value tax provisions in respect of a prior year acquisition.
The Group operates in a number of countries that have differing tax rates, laws and practices.
Changes in any of these areas could, adversely or positively, impact the Groups tax charge in the future.
Continuing losses, or insufficiency of taxable profit to absorb all expenses, in any subsidiary, could have the effect of increasing tax charges in the future, relative to 2005, as effective tax relief may not be available for those losses or expenses.
Other significant factors affecting the tax charge are described in note 3.4.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is 61.7m.
The tax charge relating to items charged or credited directly to equity was nil 2004: nil.
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows: 2005 2004 m m Profit before tax 81.4 50.1 Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 30% 2004: 30% 24.4 15.0 Overseas tax rate differences 9.6 11.8 Amortisation of intangibles 3.5 4.1 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 3.4 13.4 Deferred tax written-off 16.6 10.0 Deferred tax assets not recognised 0.3 7.0 Adjustments in respect of prior years 3.9 6.0 Joint venture tax 0.3 0.5 Total income tax costs 42.8 32.2 Cookson Group plc { 65 } Annual Report 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 15.
NET POST-TAX LOSS ON DISPOSAL OF OPERATIONS 2005 2004 m m Loss on transfer of Laminates to held for sale 52.5 Profit on disposal of SCS 10.8 Net post-tax loss on disposal of discontinued operations 41.7 On 15 December 2005 the Group announced that it had entered into an agreement to sell its Laminates business to ISOLA Group S. A. R. L. Completion of the transaction, which is conditional upon satisfactory clearance from the European competition authorities, is expected in the first half of 2006.
Accordingly, with effect from 31 December 2005, the assets and liabilities of the Laminates business have been reclassified in the Group balance sheet to held for sale and measured at fair value less costs to sell, resulting in a loss of 52.5m, including a related tax credit of 0.6m.
On 31 December 2005, the Group sold its Specialty Coating Systems SCS business, which previously formed part of the Assembly Materials sector of the Electronics division, to Bunker Hill Capital for 30.2m, resulting in a profit on disposal of 10.8m, after a related tax charge of 5.7m.
0.8m of the proceeds are deferred until the completion of the sale of the SCS China business in 2006.
Net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations: 2005 2004 m m Operating activities 6.0 5.4 Investing activities 6.7 13.2 Financing activities 0.9 0.5 Net cash flows 1.6 8.3 Disposal from continuing operations: The 4.5m net loss from continuing operations includes the disposal of the Groups Technical Ceramics business, formerly a part of the Ceramics division, plus a number of additional trailing costs related to previous years disposals.
The net loss for 2004 of 34.9m included the sale of the Ceramics divisions loss-making European silica-zinc brick business at a loss of 30.6m and 5.1m related to the winding-up of the Laminates sectors joint venture with Fukuda.
The tax charge associated with these disposals was 1.6m 2004: 2.6m credit.
DIVIDENDS The proposed final dividend for the year of 5.0p per ordinary share 2004: nil is subject to approval by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
If approved by shareholders, the dividend will be paid on 12 June 2006 to ordinary shareholders on the register at 26 May 2006.
Based upon the number of ordinary shares in issue as at 31 December 2005, the total cost of the dividend would be 9.5m 2004: nil.
Cookson Group plc { 66 } Annual Report 2005 17.
EARNINGS PER SHARE EPS Continuing Discontinued 2005 Continuing Discontinued 2004 operations operations Total operations operations Total pence pence pence pence pence pence Basic EPS 15.0 20.8 5.8 8.7 2.5 11.2 Diluted EPS 14.9 20.7 5.8 8.7 2.5 11.2 Headline EPS 33.6 3.6 37.2 27.3 2.8 30.1 Diluted headline EPS 33.4 3.6 37.0 27.3 2.8 30.1 Continuing Discontinued 2005 Continuing Discontinued 2004 operations operations Total operations operations Total m m m m m m Earnings Earnings for the purpose of calculating basic and diluted EPS being net profit attributable to parent company equity holders 28.2 39.2 11.0 16.4 4.7 21.1 Adjustments: Rationalisation of operating activities 13.4 5.1 18.5 13.8 8.9 22.7 Amortisation and impairment charges 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 Loss profit relating to fixed assets 1.9 1.9 16.8 16.8 Income from swap close-out 5.4 5.4 Write-off of prepaid debt-raising fees 1.2 1.2 Net post-tax loss on disposal of operations 4.5 41.7 46.2 34.9 34.9 Net write-off of tax assets and provisions 16.6 16.6 4.8 4.8 Tax relating to the above adjustments 2.4 0.2 2.2 2.9 0.2 3.1 Earnings for the purpose of headline EPS 63.4 6.7 70.1 51.4 5.2 56.6 2004 2005 restated m m Number of shares Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic EPS 188.5 188.3 Adjustments for diluted weighted average number of shares relating to the Companys share option schemes 1.1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted EPS 189.6 188.3 For the purpose of calculating diluted EPS, the weighted average number of ordinary shares is adjusted to include the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
Potential ordinary shares are only treated as dilutive when their conversion to ordinary shares would decrease earnings per share, or increase loss per share, from continuing operations.
In addition to the 1.1m 2004 as restated: nil shares shown in the table above as being dilutive, the Company had an additional 6.0m of potential ordinary shares outstanding as at 31 December 2005 2004: 10.0m that could potentially dilute EPS in the future, but were not included in the calculation of diluted EPS above because they were antidilutive in the years presented.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of EPS figures for 2004 has been restated to take account of a share consolidation that was approved at, and took effect following, the Companys Annual General Meeting held on 26 May 2005.
Under the terms of the consolidation, shareholders received one new ordinary share of 10p each for every 10 existing ordinary shares of 1p each held at the close of business on 26 May 2005.
Cookson Group plc { 67 } Annual Report 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 18.
CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS 2005 2004 m m Profit from operations 110.9 74.6 Adjustments for: Rationalisation of operating activities 18.5 22.7 Loss relating to fixed assets 16.8 Amortisation of intangibles 0.8 0.8 Depreciation 47.1 46.9 Increase in inventories 9.1 16.8 Increase in trade receivables 10.7 6.3 Decrease increase in trade payables 3.9 6.2 Net increase in trade working capital 23.7 16.9 Outflows relating to rationalisation of operating activities 17.0 14.2 Additional funding contributions to Group pension plans 10.0 6.5 Other items 8.8 21.3 Cash generated from operations 117.8 145.5 19.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2005 2004 m m Short-term deposits 4.3 Cash at bank and in hand 65.9 43.1 Bank overdrafts 2.4 3.4 Total cash and cash equivalents 63.5 44.0 20.
RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENT IN NET DEBT Balance Foreign RefinBalance as at 1 Opening exchange Transferred ancing as at 31 January debt adjustto held and issue Cash December 2005 adjustment ments for sale costs flow 2005 m m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents: Short-term deposits 4.3 0.2 4.5 Cash at bank and in hand 43.1 10.9 11.9 65.9 Bank overdrafts 3.4 0.1 1.1 2.4 8.5 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings: Current 39.7 2.9 0.9 27.8 13.9 Non-current 328.2 1.1 34.5 1.2 17.4 343.0 Refinancing and issue costs 2.1 1.0 1.1 45.2 Net debt 321.8 1.1 26.4 2.1 1.0 53.7 292.3 Net debt is a measure that shows the Groups net indebtedness to banks and other third party financial institutions and comprises the total of cash and cash equivalents and current and non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
The opening debt adjustment in the table above arises on the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 as at 1 January 2005 and relates to the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts.
Previously the fair value of these forward foreign exchange contracts was netted against the value of the debt whose currency exposure they were hedging.
As from 1 January 2005 they are now shown separately on the face of the balance sheet as derivative financial instruments within assets or liabilities as appropriate.
Cookson Group plc { 68 } Annual Report 2005 21.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Freehold Leasehold Plant and Construction property property machinery in progress Total m m m m m Cost As at 1 January 2004 161.1 29.3 549.6 17.6 757.6 Exchange adjustments 6.2 0.4 14.6 0.8 22.0 Additions capital expenditure 4.2 1.1 26.0 11.0 42.3 Disposals sales and scrappings 4.8 0.1 30.1 35.0 Disposals businesses 2.6 11.8 14.4 Reclassifications 6.5 0.1 3.4 9.8 As at 1 January 2005 158.2 29.8 522.5 18.0 728.5 Exchange adjustments 11.3 2.5 33.3 1.8 48.9 Additions capital expenditure 0.7 0.8 27.2 14.3 43.0 Disposals sales and scrappings 19.9 0.5 34.4 54.8 Disposals businesses 1.9 0.5 10.3 0.3 13.0 Transferred to assets classified as held for sale 22.8 9.3 84.2 2.9 119.2 Reclassifications 2.0 18.7 20.7 As at 31 December 2005 127.6 22.8 472.8 10.2 633.4 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses As at 1 January 2004 61.0 8.7 333.2 402.9 Exchange adjustments 2.3 0.4 10.3 13.0 Depreciation charge 5.6 1.3 40.0 46.9 Disposals sales and scrappings 1.1 0.1 24.0 25.2 Disposals businesses 0.3 5.7 6.0 Reclassifications 1.6 1.5 0.1 As at 1 January 2005 64.5 8.0 333.1 405.6 Exchange adjustments 4.9 0.8 22.9 28.6 Depreciation charge 4.6 1.5 41.0 47.1 Disposals sales and scrappings 10.2 0.4 30.7 41.3 Disposals businesses 1.6 0.2 7.6 9.4 Transferred to assets classified as held for sale 9.8 1.3 51.0 62.1 As at 31 December 2005 52.4 8.4 307.7 368.5 Net book value as at 31 December 2005 75.2 14.4 165.1 10.2 264.9 Net book value as at 31 December 2004 93.7 21.8 189.4 18.0 322.9 Net book value as at 1 January 2004 100.1 20.6 216.4 17.6 354.7 The net book value of assets held under finance leases as at 31 December 2005 and 31 December 2004 was not material.
Cookson Group plc { 69 } Annual Report 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 22.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS Other intangible Goodwill assets Total m m m Cost As at 1 January 2004 505.6 8.4 514.0 Exchange adjustments 18.8 0.7 19.5 Additions 1.4 1.4 Derecognised on disposal of subsidiaries 9.9 9.9 As at 1 January 2005 478.3 7.7 486.0 Exchange adjustments 37.4 0.8 38.2 Derecognised on disposal of subsidiaries 7.5 7.5 Transferred to assets classified as held for sale 26.6 8.5 35.1 As at 31 December 2005 481.6 481.6 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses As at 1 January 2004 Amortisation charge 0.8 0.8 As at 1 January 2005 0.8 0.8 Amortisation charge 0.8 0.8 Transferred to assets classified as held for sale 1.6 1.6 As at 31 December 2005 Net book value as at 31 December 2005 481.6 481.6 Net book value as at 31 December 2004 478.3 6.9 485.2 Net book value as at 1 January 2004 505.6 8.4 514.0 The other intangible asset balance related to a perpetual licensing agreement of the Laminates business in the US, which was being amortised over its estimated 10-year useful life.
For the cash-generating units shown below, the carrying amount of goodwill is significant in relation to the Groups total carrying amount of goodwill: 2005 2004 m m Ceramics 214.3 197.1 Electronics Chemistry 187.6 176.9 Other cash-generating units 79.7 104.3 Total goodwill 481.6 478.3 Impairment testing For the purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable amount of cash-generating units is based on value in use calculations.
In the assessment undertaken in 2005, value in use was derived from discounted 5-year cash flow projections, using a growth rate of 3% in the years beyond the projection period.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS was tested for impairment at the transition date and has been retained at its previous UK GAAP value.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1998 that was written-off against reserves under UK GAAP has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Cookson Group plc { 70 } Annual Report 2005 23.
INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES The principal joint venture of the Group, in which it has a 50% interest, is Electroplating Engineers of Japan Ltd.
The Groups interests in its joint ventures are recognised using the equity method.
The aggregate amounts relating to these interests were as follows: 2005 2004 m m Share of current assets 18.9 21.8 Share of non-current assets 0.4 0.3 f current liabilities 5.6 6.9 Share o Share of non-current liabilities 0.6 0.5 As at 31 December 13.1 14.7 Share of revenue 46.9 45.2 Share of post-tax profit 1.4 2.3 24.
OTHER INVESTMENTS 2005 2004 m m Available-for-sale equity securities 6.2 other investments 2.0 Revenue-sharing arrangement 3.0 3.1 Assets held in Rabbi Trusts 6.4 Other investments 7.2 As at 31 December 11.2 16.7 With effect from 1 January 2005, when the Group adopted IAS 39, the Groups Rabbi Trust assets are classified as available-forsale investments, carried at fair value and included within other financial assets note 28.
In 2004 an impairment loss of 17.9m was recognised against the Groups investment in a 20-year revenue-sharing arrangement with Electric Lightwave, Inc. related to a fibre optic cable network between Portland and Los Angeles in the US.
Other investments carried at cost of 7.2m in 2004 have, with effect from 1 January 2005, been classified as available-for-sale and carried at fair value.
DEFERRED TAX Accelerated Other capital Tax Unrelieved Pension timing allowances losses interest costs Goodwill differences Total m m m m m m m As at 1 January 2004 7.7 33.1 24.0 5.4 33.0 19.6 41.4 Exchange adjustments 0.3 1.4 1.5 0.2 2.8 1.1 1.1 Charge credit to income statement 1.7 2.1 1.2 1.2 7.2 8.5 17.7 As at 1 January 2005 9.1 33.8 21.3 4.0 37.4 10.0 22.6 Opening adjustment note 45 6.7 6.7 As at 1 January 2005, as restated 9.1 33.8 21.3 4.0 37.4 3.3 15.9 Exchange adjustments 0.3 4.8 1.1 0.1 5.8 1.0 0.9 Charge credit to income statement 3.6 26.0 22.4 4.0 31.5 6.1 23.4 As at 31 December 2005 5.8 12.6 0.1 11.7 1.8 6.6 2005 2004 m m Deferred tax assets 15.0 31.2 Deferred tax liabilities 21.6 8.6 Total deferred tax liabilities assets 6.6 22.6 Cookson Group plc { 71 } Annual Report 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25.
DEFERRED TAX continued Of the 23.4m 2004: 17.7m charge to the income statement, 16.7m 2004: 17.7m has been charged within income tax costs note 14 and 6.7m 2004: nil has been charged in arriving at the net post-tax loss on disposal of operations note 15.
The total deferred tax asset not recognised as at 31 December 2005 was 360.8m 2004: 320.4m.
This consisted of 64.3m 2004: 70.5m relating to capital losses, 143.0m 2004: 102.6m relating to operating losses, 67.8m 2004: 40.9m relating to unrelieved interest, 72.6m 2004: 99.2m relating to other categories and UK ACT tax credits, which may be carried forward indefinitely, with a tax value of 13.1m 2004: 7.2m.
In accordance with the accounting policy note 3.4, these items have not been recognised in the above analysis on the basis that their future economic benefit is not probable.
In total, there was an increase of 40.4m 2004: 22.6m in net unrecognised deferred tax assets during the year.
As at 31 December 2005 the Group had total operating losses carried forward with a tax value of 155.6m.
This total includes approximately 72.0m for losses which are available to offset future taxable US income, of which approximately 6.9m will expire in 2020 and the remainder will expire between 2022 and 2025.
A further 53.9m of losses are available to offset future UK taxable income and may be carried forward without time limit.
The remaining losses with a value of 29.7m include 26.1m which may be carried forward indefinitely and 3.6m which has a maximum life of between 7 and 15 years.
The amounts arise in a number of countries and are not individually significant, reflecting the spread of the Group's operations.
As at 31 December 2005 the Group had total capital losses carried forward with a tax value of 64.3m.
This total includes 6.0m which are available to offset future capital gains in the US and will expire at the end of 2006.
The balance of the capital losses with a value of 58.3m are available to offset future UK capital gains and may be carried forward without time limit.
As at 31 December 2005 the Group had total US tax credits carried forward with a tax value of 5.3m.
This includes 2.0m of research and experimentation credits which expire between 2018 and 2024: 2.9m of foreign tax credits expiring between 2009 and 2014 and 0.4m other credits which expire between 2005 and 2009.
As at 31 December 2005 the Group had UK ACT tax credits carried forward with a tax value of 13.1m.
These may be carried forward indefinitely.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2005 2004 m m Non-current: Other receivables 8.7 10.6 Current: Trade receivables 267.2 274.3 Amounts owed by joint ventures 0.1 Other receivables 13.2 16.0 Prepayments and accrued income 13.6 13.0 Total current receivables 294.0 303.4 The fair values of trade and other receivables are the same as the carrying values shown above.
There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables, as the Group has a large number of customers, none of whom represents a significant proportion of the outstanding receivables balance.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet for trade receivables are net of allowances for uncollectible receivables, in respect of which in 2005 4.0m 2004: 2.1m has been charged to the income statement.
Cookson Group plc { 72 } Annual Report 2005 27.
INVENTORIES 2005 2004 m m Raw materials 71.5 73.5 Work-in-progress 28.9 29.9 Finished goods 79.2 70.7 Total inventories 179.6 174.1 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of goods sold in the income statement during the year was 742.9m 2004: 755.8m.
In addition to the inventory recorded in the balance sheet, the Group held precious metals on consignment terms with a total value as at 31 December 2005 of 228.5m 2004: 185.6m.
As at 31 December 2005 metal held under consignment comprised 599,001 ounces of gold 2004: 648,586 ounces, 6,714,921 ounces of silver 2004: 7,554,244 ounces, 22,118 ounces of platinum 2004: 20,549 ounces and 17,370 ounces of palladium 2004: 18,427 ounces.
The Group also held precious metals on behalf of customers for processing, the value of which as at 31 December 2005 was 66.8m 2004: 39.3m.
The Groups precious metal fabrication operations utilise significant amounts of precious metals, being primarily gold by value.
These metals are predominantly held on consignment under arrangements the terms of which provide, inter alia, that the consignor retains title to the metal and has a right of return over the metal without penalty.
Consignors are party to either committed or uncommitted arrangements.
Under uncommitted arrangements, the consignor is under no obligation to supply the precious metal to the Groups fabrication operations and has the right, with limited or in some cases no notice, to demand physical return of the consigned metal.
The metal which the Group fabricates for its customers may be purchased by the Group from the consignor and sold concurrently to the customer, thereby eliminating the Groups exposure to the risk of market fluctuations in metal prices.
Alternatively, the metal may be consigned or sold directly from the consignor to the Groups customers, the Group charging customers only for the fabrication process, which also eliminates the Groups exposure to the risk of market fluctuations in metal prices.
As the consignors retain title and associated risks and benefits of ownership under these arrangements, the physical metal so held is not recorded in the Group balance sheet.
Consignment fees are charged by the consignor and totalled 5.7m in 2005 2004: 5.7m.
OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS 2005 2004 m m Derivative financial assets 3.7 Assets held in Rabbi Trusts 8.5 Total other financial assets 12.2 Derivative financial assets comprise forward foreign exchange contracts that are accounted for in accordance with the policies in note 4.2.
Prior to 1 January 2005, when the Group adopted IAS 39, net investment hedges were netted against the interest-bearing borrowings to which they related.
The Group has designated a number of forward foreign exchange contracts as net investment hedges, to provide a hedge against the Groups exposure to changes in the value of its investment in the net assets of its foreign operations that arise from fluctuations in exchange rates.
As at 31 December 2005, the Group had Japanese yen forward foreign exchange contracts totalling JPY4,500m with a favourable fair value of 0.7m and euro forward foreign exchange contracts totalling 117m with a favourable fair value of 2.9m.
Net investment hedges and cash flow hedges are short-dated and expected to mature within a year of the balance sheet date.
The fair value of cash flow hedges as at 31 December 2005 amounted to 0.1m.
Assets held in Rabbi Trusts are held to fund certain non-qualified US pension plan obligations but are not included within pension plan assets as they are available to satisfy creditors in the event of the winding-up of the Group company in which they are held.
Prior to the adoption of IAS 39 on 1 January 2005, these assets were carried at cost and classified as other investments note 24.
Cookson Group plc { 73 } Annual Report 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29.
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR SALE The Group has entered into an agreement to sell its Laminates business to ISOLA Group S. A. R. L. and the transaction is expected to be completed in the first half of 2006.
Accordingly, the related assets and liabilities of the Laminates business were classified as held for sale at 31 December 2005 and remeasured at fair value less costs to sell.
The loss on remeasurement to fair value less costs to sell is shown in note 15.
Disclosed as other non-current assets in the table below are two manufacturing facilities in the Electronics division that were closed during the year and which are expected to be sold within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Accordingly, they have been classified as held for sale in the balance sheet and recognised at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Other nonLaminates current business assets Total m m m Assets held for sale: Property, plant and equipment 36.2 2.2 38.4 Intangible assets 4.5 4.5 Inventories 10.7 10.7 Trade and other receivables 33.6 33.6 Total assets held for sale 85.0 2.2 87.2 Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale: Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 2.1 2.1 Employee benefits 0.1 0.1 Trade and other payables 33.6 33.6 Deferred tax liabilities 0.4 0.4 Income tax payable 0.4 0.4 Total liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale 36.6 36.6 30.
SHARE CAPITAL Authorised 2005 2004 restated m m 1,935.0m ordinary shares of 10p each 193.5 193.5 727.6m deferred shares of 49p each 356.5 356.5 As at 31 December 550.0 550.0 Issued and fully paid number of shares Ordinary shares Deferred shares 2005 2004 2005 2004 m m m m As at 1 January 189.6 189.2 727.6 727.6 Issued on exercise of share options 0.8 0.4 As at 31 December 190.4 189.6 727.6 727.6 Issued and fully paid cost of shares Ordinary shares Deferred shares Total 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 m m m m m m As at 1 January 19.0 18.9 356.5 356.5 375.5 375.4 Issued on exercise of share options 0.1 0.1 As at 31 December 19.0 19.0 356.5 356.5 375.5 375.5 The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time, are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company and rank equally with regard to entitlement to the Companys residual assets.
The deferred shares carried no right to dividends or voting, are not listed and are, therefore, rendered effectively worthless.
Other disclosures relating to the Companys share capital can be found in note 58.
Cookson Group plc { 74 } Annual Report 2005 31.
SHARE PREMIUM ACCOUNT m As at 1 January 2004 642.6 On exercise of share options 0.8 As at 1 January 2005 643.4 On exercise of share options 2.1 As at 31 December 2005 645.5 The share premium account of the Company was cancelled on 15 February 2006.
Details of the cancellation can be found in note 59.
OTHER RESERVES Investment revaluation Translation reserve reserve Total m m m As at 1 January 2004 Exchange differences on translation of the net assets of foreign operations 34.7 34.7 Net investment hedges 23.8 23.8 As at 1 January 2005 10.9 10.9 Opening reserves adjustment note 45 2.6 2.6 As at 1 January 2005, as restated 2.6 10.9 8.3 Exchange differences on translation of the net assets of foreign operations 73.8 73.8 Net investment hedges 29.9 29.9 Changes in fair value of equity securities available-for-sale 2.2 2.2 As at 31 December 2005 4.8 33.0 37.8 Investment revaluation reserve Available-for-sale investments are carried in the Group balance sheet at fair value and remeasured at each balance sheet date.
Changes in fair value from one balance sheet date to the next are recorded in the investment revaluation reserve, together with any related tax.
When the investment is derecognised the cumulative amount relating to it in the investment revaluation reserve, together with any related tax, is recognised in the income statement.
Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences attributable to the equity holders of the parent company that arise from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations and from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Groups net investment in foreign operations.
Foreign exchange differences reported in the Group statement of recognised income and expense also include foreign exchange differences attributable to minority interests.
Cookson Group plc { 75 } Annual Report 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 33.
RETAINED EARNINGS Share Other Total Treasury option retained retained shares reserve earnings earnings m m m m As at 1 January 2004 12.4 1.0 519.5 530.9 Loss for the year 21.1 21.1 Actuarial loss on employee benefit plans 26.8 26.8 Recognition of share-based payments 2.2 2.2 As at 1 January 2005 12.4 3.2 567.4 576.6 Opening reserves adjustment note 45 16.6 16.6 As at 1 January 2005, as restated 12.4 3.2 550.8 560.0 Loss for the year 11.0 11.0 Actuarial loss on employee benefit plans 41.1 41.1 Recognition of share-based payments 2.3 2.3 As at 31 December 2005 12.4 5.5 602.9 609.8 The Treasury shares shown in the table above are ordinary shares of 10p each of the Company and are held by Cookson Investments Jersey Limited as Trustee of the Cookson Group ESOP note 60.
INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS The information in this note for 2005 is prepared under and meets the disclosure requirements of IFRS.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption allowing it to report comparative information under its previous GAAP that does not comply with IAS 32 and IAS 39.
Accordingly, the information presented for 2004 is prepared under and meets the disclosure requirements of UK GAAP.
In order to comply with IAS 32 and IAS 39, the comparative information below would present forward foreign exchange contracts separately on the face of the balance sheet as derivative financial instruments within other financial assets or liabilities as appropriate.
INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS continued Fixed Floating 2005 Fixed Floating 2004 rate rate Total rate rate Total m m m m m m The borrowings are repayable as follows: On demand or within one year 13.9 13.9 13.0 26.7 39.7 In the second year 104.8 1.5 106.3 40.9 40.9 In the third year 0.6 0.6 93.7 2.2 95.9 In the fourth year 23.3 23.4 46.7 In the fifth year 78.6 78.6 20.8 20.8 After five years 110.8 110.8 169.2 1.4 170.6 Capitalised borrowing costs 0.7 0.4 1.1 0.8 1.3 2.1 316.8 39.0 355.8 295.9 69.9 365.8 Less: amount repayable within one year 13.9 13.9 13.0 26.7 39.7 Amount repayable in more than one year 316.8 25.1 341.9 282.9 43.2 326.1 Total capitalised borrowing costs, including those in respect of the syndicated bank facility and the senior loan notes, which have been treated as a reduction in borrowings in the accounts amounted to 1.1m as at 31 December 2005 2004: 2.1m.
Of the 1.1m of capitalised borrowing costs, 0.7m related to the senior loan notes and 0.4m related to the syndicated bank facility.
2005 2004 Present value of minimum finance lease obligations m m Due within one year 2.2 4.2 Due between one and five years 1.5 Total present value of minimum finance lease obligations 3.7 4.2 35.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT a Fair values of financial instruments Fair value is defined as the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arms length transaction between informed and willing parties and is calculated by reference to market rates discounted to current value.
Where market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing rates translated at year end exchange rates.
2005 2004 Book Fair Book Fair value value value value m m m m Short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term borrowings 11.7 11.7 23.7 24.0 Long-term portion of long-term borrowings 341.5 378.1 328.2 375.4 Asset securitisation proceeds 10.7 10.7 Obligations under finance leases 3.7 3.7 4.2 4.2 Capitalised costs 1.1 2.1 Gross borrowings excluding forward foreign exchange contracts 355.8 393.5 364.7 414.3 Forward foreign exchange contracts 3.6 3.6 1.1 1.1 Gross borrowings including forward foreign exchange contracts 352.2 389.9 365.8 415.4 Cash and cash equivalents note 19 63.5 63.5 44.0 44.0 Net debt including forward foreign exchange contracts 288.7 326.4 321.8 371.4 As described in note 34, following the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 on 1 January 2005, for financial reporting purposes the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is shown on the face of the balance sheet as derivative financial instruments within other financial assets or liabilities as appropriate.
Cookson Group plc { 77 } Annual Report 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 35.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued b Interest rate exposure of financial assets and liabilities The interest rate and currency profiles of the Groups borrowings are set out below.
The figures are shown after taking into account the effect of forward foreign exchange contracts, which are used to manage the currency profile of the Groups net debt and which are shown separately from borrowings in the Group balance sheet.
2005 Financial Net Financial liabilities gross borrowings assets financial Fixed Floating cash and assets rate rate Total equivalents liabilities m m m m m Sterling 0.5 0.5 3.7 4.2 United States Dollar 317.5 82.4 235.1 30.1 205.0 Euro 92.3 92.3 3.2 89.1 Singapore Dollar 0.7 0.7 Japanese Yen 22.2 22.2 1.0 21.2 Chinese Renminbi 7.7 7.7 Other 3.1 3.1 17.1 14.0 As at 31 December 2005 317.5 34.7 352.2 63.5 288.7 2004 Financial Net Financial liabilities gross borrowings assets financial Fixed Floating cash and assets rate rate Total equivalents liabilities m m m m m Sterling 31.0 31.0 6.5 24.5 United States Dollar 283.7 41.2 242.5 22.7 219.8 Euro 56.3 56.3 1.3 55.0 Japanese Yen 22.7 22.7 1.7 21.0 Chinese Renminbi 0.7 0.7 4.4 3.7 Other 12.6 12.6 7.4 5.2 As at 31 December 2004 283.7 82.1 365.8 44.0 321.8 The financial assets shown in the tables above attract floating rate interest at the interbank offered rate of the appropriate currency, less a margin.
The floating rate financial liabilities bear interest at the interbank offered rate of the appropriate currency, plus a margin.
The interest rate profile of fixed rate financial liabilities is shown below.
2005 2004 Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average Total interest period for Total interest period for fixed rate rate of which fixed rate rate of which financial fixed rate rate financial fixed rate rate liabilities liabilities is fixed liabilities liabilities is fixed m % years m % years United States Dollar 317.5 7.6 4.1 283.7 7.6 5.1 Cookson Group plc { 78 } Annual Report 2005 35.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued c Currency exposure of financial assets and liabilities The table below shows the net unhedged monetary assets and liabilities of Group companies that are not denominated in their functional currency and which therefore give rise to exchange gains and losses in the income statement.
Net unhedged monetary assets liabilities Sterling US Dollar Euro Other Total m m m m m Functional currency: Sterling 0.4 0.8 0.4 United States Dollar 0.1 0.6 0.5 Euro 0.4 2.7 0.2 2.5 Other 0.7 8.0 5.7 1.9 11.1 As at 31 December 2005 1.0 10.3 5.9 1.2 14.0 Net unhedged monetary assets liabilities Sterling US Dollar Euro Other Total m m m m m Functional currency: Sterling 0.1 0.5 0.8 1.4 United States Dollar 0.1 8.1 8.0 Euro 1.8 1.6 0.3 0.1 Other 0.5 5.9 4.2 6.0 3.6 As at 31 December 2004 2.4 7.4 11.8 6.5 10.3 d Borrowing facilities Of the total borrowing facilities available to the Group, the undrawn committed facilities available were as follows: 2005 2004 m m Expiring in more than one year but not more than two years 108.0 Expiring in more than two years but not more than five years 176.7 As at 31 December 176.7 108.0 The Group had committed facilities of 517.5m as at 31 December 2005 2004: 444.7m.
The Groups near-term borrowing requirements have been met by a committed syndicated bank facility of 200m 2004: 148m.
The facility is for a term of three years, with options to extend for a further two years.
In the period since 31 December 2005, the Group has exercised the first of these options to extend the facilitys maturity to 1 March 2009 on the same pricing and terms.
The facility is unsecured, with all security and guarantees under the previous facility being fully released.
Borrowings under the facility are for general corporate purposes.
Cookson Group plc { 79 } Annual Report 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 36.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS The Group operates a number of pension plans around the world, both of the defined contribution and defined benefit type, and accounts for them in accordance with IAS 19 as amended.
Defined contribution plans The Groups principal defined contribution plans are in the UK and the US and the assets of the plans are held separately from the Group in trustee-administered funds.
The total expense for these plans in the income statement amounted to 7.9m 2004: 7.5m and represents the contributions payable for the year by the Group to the plans.
Defined benefit pension plans The Groups principal defined benefit pension plans are in the UK and the US.
The assets of these plans are held separately from the Group in trustee-administered funds.
The Group also has defined benefit pension plans in other territories but these are not material in relation to the Group as a whole.
The Group has one main defined benefit pension plan in the UK the UK Plan.
A full actuarial valuation of the UK Plan is carried out every three years and the last full valuation was carried out as at 31 December 2003.
At that date, the market value of plan assets was 179.6m and this represented 81% of accrued plan benefits at the time using the projected unit method of valuation.
The UK Plan was closed to new entrants in October 2004.
The US has a number of defined benefit plans, providing retirement benefits based on final salary or a fixed benefit.
In addition, one of the plans has characteristics similar to defined contribution plans but with a minimum performance level guaranteed by the Group on the members accounts.
The cash balance rate assumption in the table below refers to the assumed minimum guaranteed return on members accounts.
Actuarial valuations of the US defined benefit pension plans are carried out every year and the last full valuation was carried out as at 31 December 2004.
At that date the market value of the plan assets was 56.9m, representing 67% of accrued plan benefits at that date using the projected unit method of valuation.
Funding levels for the Groups US defined benefit pension plans are normally based upon annual valuations carried out by independent qualified actuaries and in accordance with US government regulations.
Assumptions The assumptions used in calculating the costs and obligations of the Groups defined benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit plans, as shown in the table below, are set by the Directors after consultation with independent professionally qualified actuaries.
31 December 2005 31 December 2004 UK US UK US Principal assumptions % p. a.
Discount rate 4.75 5.50 5.25 5.75 Price inflation 2.80 2.60 2.50 2.50 Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 3.80 3.60 4.00 4.00 e of increase to pensions in payment 2.70 n a 2.50 n a Rat Cash balance rate n a 5.25 n a 5.25 f return equities 7.60 8.00 8.00 8.50 Long-term rate o bonds 4.10 5.00 4.50 5.50 Healthcare cost trend rate long-term 3.80 5.00 4.00 5.00 next year 8.00 10.50 8.00 9.50 The overall expected rate of return on plan assets reflects market expectations at the valuation date of long-term asset returns and the mix of assets in the plans.
A one percent increase in the healthcare cost trend rate assumptions shown above would increase post-employment medical costs by 0.1m and a one percent decrease in the healthcare cost trend rate assumptions would decrease the costs by 0.1m.
Cookson Group plc { 80 } Annual Report 2005 36.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued Assumptions continued The mortality assumptions used in the Groups actuarial valuations since transition to IFRS have been amended to assume that pensioners have a longer life expectancy.
The mortality assumptions used in the valuation of the defined benefit pension liabilities of the Groups UK and US plans are summarised in the table below and have been selected to reflect the characteristics and experience of the membership of those plans.
This has been done by adjusting standard mortality tables which reflect recent research into mortality experience in the UK PA 92 tables combined with the 2002 short cohort improvement factors and the US UP-94 tables using projection scale AA.
In addition, the UK assumptions have been further adjusted to reflect the latest available trend information, which indicates that mortality relating, in particular, to blue collar workers may not be improving as quickly as indicated by the standard tables.
Accordingly, based on an analysis of the mix of blue and white collar workers in the Groups plan, the UK assumptions have been adjusted using a scaling factor of 118.75% to reflect a lower level of longevity amongst the blue collar membership.
UK US 2005 2004 2005 2004 years years years years Longevity at age 65 for current pensioners Men 19.7 18.4 17.7 17.7 Women 22.4 21.3 20.6 20.6 Longevity at age 65 for future pensioners Men 20.4 19.3 18.5 17.7 Women 23.1 22.3 21.0 20.6 If assumed life expectancies had been one year greater in each of the UK and US pension plans, the liabilities would have increased by approximately 13m for the UK plan and 4m for the US plan.
Income statement recognition The expense recognised in the income statement in respect of the Groups defined benefit retirement plans and other postretirement benefits is as follows: 2005 2004 Other Other Defined postDefined postbenefit retirement benefit retirement pension benefit pension benefit plans plans Total plans plans Total m m m m m m Current service cost 8.8 0.6 9.4 9.9 0.2 10.1 Past service cost 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Interest on obligation 23.0 1.2 24.2 22.0 1.7 23.7 Expected return on plan assets 18.9 18.9 18.0 18.0 Curtailment gains 0.9 0.9 2.2 2.2 Total expense 12.1 1.8 13.9 11.8 1.9 13.7 The actual return on plan assets was 42.3m 2004: 28.6m.
The expense recognised in the income statement in respect of the Groups defined benefit retirement plans and other postretirement benefits is recognised in the following lines: 2005 2004 m m Other manufacturing costs 6.3 7.3 Administration, selling and distribution costs 8.5 8.3 Loss on disposal of operations 0.9 1.9 Total expense 13.9 13.7 Cookson Group plc { 81 } Annual Report 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 36.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued Balance sheet recognition The amount recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the Groups defined benefit retirement plans and other post-retirement benefits is as follows: Other postretirement Defined benefit pension plans benefit 2005 UK US ROW Total plans Total m m m m m m Equities 147.1 43.2 190.3 190.3 Bonds 93.8 22.3 7.7 123.8 123.8 Other 4.6 0.2 6.1 10.9 10.9 Fair value of plan assets 245.5 65.7 13.8 325.0 325.0 Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 361.5 103.9 20.8 486.2 486.2 116.0 38.2 7.0 161.2 161.2 Present value of unfunded post-retirement benefit plans 1.4 22.9 7.3 31.6 32.0 63.6 Net liability recognised in the balance sheet 117.4 61.1 14.3 192.8 32.0 224.8 Other postretirement Defined benefit pension plans benefit 2004 UK US ROW Total plans Total m m m m m m Equities 129.9 37.6 167.5 167.5 Bonds 71.6 18.1 89.7 89.7 Other 3.3 1.2 12.8 17.3 17.3 Fair value of plan assets 204.8 56.9 12.8 274.5 274.5 Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 301.1 84.8 16.9 402.8 402.8 96.3 27.9 4.1 128.3 128.3 Present value of unfunded post-retirement benefit plans 2.5 19.5 8.4 30.4 31.2 61.6 Net liability recognised in the balance sheet 98.8 47.4 12.5 158.7 31.2 189.9 Defined benefit obligation Other postretirement Defined benefit pension plans benefit 2005 UK US ROW Total plans Total m m m m m m Present value as at 1 January 2005 303.6 104.3 25.3 433.2 31.2 464.4 Exchange differences 13.0 1.6 11.4 1.2 12.6 Current service cost 3.4 3.6 1.8 8.8 0.6 9.4 Past service cost 0.1 0.1 0.1 Interest cost 15.6 6.3 1.1 23.0 1.2 24.2 Curtailment gains 0.1 0.8 0.9 0.9 Actuarial losses 54.0 6.5 3.3 63.8 0.7 64.5 Contributions from members 1.6 0.1 1.7 1.7 Benefits paid 15.2 6.1 2.0 23.3 2.9 26.2 Present value as at 31 December 2005 362.9 126.8 28.1 517.8 32.0 549.8 Cookson Group plc { 82 } Annual Report 2005 36.
This includes a special funding contribution of 25.5m into the main UK pension plan.
The Group is also expected to make aggregate contributions in respect of its other post-retirement plans of 2.0m in 2006.
History The history of the fair value of the plan assets, the defined benefit obligation, the deficit in the plans and the experience adjustments on plan assets and liabilities are shown below: Defined benefit Other post-retirement pension plans benefit plans 2005 2004 2005 2004 m m m m Fair value of plan assets 325.0 274.5 Present value of defined benefit obligations 517.8 433.2 32.0 31.2 Deficit 192.8 158.7 32.0 31.2 Experience losses on plan liabilities 6.4 10.7 0.7 1.8 Experience gains on plan assets 23.4 11.4 The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense in 2005 is 67.9m 2004: 26.8m.
Cookson Group plc { 83 } Annual Report 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 37.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Group operates a number of different share-based payment schemes: the main features of each scheme are outlined below.
a Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP At the 2004 AGM of the Company shareholders approved a new LTIP to replace the Mid-Term Incentive Plan MTIP and the executive share option schemes, both of which are being phased out.
The LTIP has two elements.
Firstly, executives who are eligible receive a conditional annual award of shares worth up to a prescribed percentage of their base salary Performance Shares.
Secondly, executives can elect to invest all or part of their annual incentive in ordinary shares of the Company Bonus Investment Shares in return for which they receive a conditional award of ordinary shares equal in value to the pre-tax equivalent of the annual incentive so invested Matching Shares.
Performance Shares and Matching Shares vest after three years, with the proportion of shares vesting being based on the Companys TSR performance over that three-year period relative to that of the constituent companies of its comparator group.
For awards made during the year, the comparator group used for the Company was the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts.
This performance measure was chosen to enhance the link between the interests of the Groups senior executives, including the executive Directors, and shareholders.
Vesting of the Performance Shares and Matching Shares will be as follows: TSR ranking relative to FTSE Mid 250 Matching Shares Vesting Ratio excluding Investment Trusts Performance Shares Vesting Percentage Matching Shares: Bonus Investment Shares Below median 0% 0 Median 25% 0.5:1 Upper quintile top 20% 100% 2.25:1 Between median and upper quintile Pro rata between 25% and 100% Pro rata between 0.5:1 and 2.25:1 An executives Matching Shares award will only vest if the Bonus Investment Shares originally purchased have been retained.
No Performance Shares or Matching Shares vest for below median performance.
The fair value of awards granted under the LTIP is measured using a stochastic pricing model.
b Mid-Term Incentive Plan MTIP Under the MTIP, executives were eligible to receive a bonus, paid partly in cash and partly in ordinary shares of the Company, the beneficial receipt of which is deferred for two years from the date of the award restricted shares based upon the achievement of target financial performance, measured over a three-year period.
For existing cycles, performance targets based on either the Groups cumulative profit or cumulative profit and cash flow performance were set by the Remuneration Committee for each three-year MTIP period.
The MTIP operated on a rolling three-year basis and the final remaining cycle culminated at the end of 2005.
The fair value of awards granted under the MTIP is measured using a Black-Scholes pricing model.
c Executive Option Schemes ESOS The last executive share option grant was made in 2003.
Under these schemes, share options were granted at the market price prevailing at the time of grant.
Options normally only became exercisable if the growth in headline earnings per share was at least equal to the increase in the UK Retail Price Index plus 3% per annum 2% per annum for options granted in 1995 and 1996 for a consecutive three-year period.
When options were granted in November 2002 and September 2003 the performance criteria were made more demanding for executive Directors.
Details of the additional performance conditions applicable can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The fair value of awards granted under the ESOS is measured using a stochastic pricing model.
d UK and International Sharesave Schemes SAYE schemes The last grant under the SAYE schemes was made in 2004.
Under the SAYE schemes, employees have the opportunity to purchase ordinary shares in the Group at a discounted price of up to 20% by using their savings together with an additional tax free bonus at the end of their saving period.
The schemes operate in conjunction with a three or five-year savings contract and options are granted at a discount of up to 20% of the market value of the shares at the date of grant.
Employees who have entered into this contract must make monthly savings of between 5 and 250.
The fair value of awards granted under the SAYE schemes is measured using a Black-Scholes pricing model.
Cookson Group plc { 84 } Annual Report 2005 37.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued e US Stock Purchase Plan USSPP The last grant under the USSPP was made in 2004.
An eligible employee who applied for an option under the USSPP agreed to savings being deducted from their net pay.
Regular deductions were made over a one-year period not more than US$5,000 in any year.
Shares were only acquired under the USSPP on exercise of the option using the savings together with interest on such savings.
The price payable for each ordinary share was the price in sterling determined by the Directors, provided that it was not less than 85% of the middle market quotation of the ordinary shares on the date of grant.
An option granted under the USSPP was exercisable not later than 18 months after the date of grant provided the option holder was still employed by the Group.
The fair value of awards granted under the USSPP is measured using a Black-Scholes pricing model.
f Stock Appreciation Rights SAR Due to the disadvantageous tax regime in Belgium, Belgian participants in the ESOS and SAYE schemes received SAR instead of share options.
These SAR were awarded under exactly the same rights and conditions as the share options, except that individuals received in cash the difference between the subscription price and market price of Cookson Group plc shares on the date of exercise, rather than having the right to purchase shares.
g IFRS 2 disclosures The Company has followed the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 and applied it only to those options that were granted after 7 November 2002 and which had not vested by 1 January 2005.
The following disclosures are only in respect of those options that fall within the scope of IFRS 2.
The exercise prices shown in the following tables are the weighted average exercise prices.
Options Outstanding options exercisable Latest As at 1 As at 31 as at 31 Earliest year in Range of January Forfeited December December year in which exercise 2005 Granted Exercised lapsed 2005 2005 which options prices No.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued g IFRS 2 disclosures continued Outstanding options Options exercisable Latest As at 1 As at 31 as at 31 Earliest year in Range of January Forfeited December December year in which exercise 2004 Granted Exercised lapsed 2004 2004 which options prices No.
LTIP MTIP Options granted during 2005: Fair value of options granted per share 227p 395p Share price on date of grant per share 329p 395p Expected volatility 70.8% n a Risk-free interest rate 4.4% n a Exercise price per share nil nil Expected term years 3.00 1.75 Expected dividend yield nil nil LTIP MTIP ESOS SAYE USSPP Options granted modified during 2004: Fair value of options granted per share 297p 426p 24p 162p 118p Share price on date of grant per share 419p 426p 345p 300p 308p Expected volatility 66.3% n a 69.8% 64.7% 70.2% Risk-free interest rate 5.0% n a 4.4% 4.7% 4.4% Exercise price per share nil nil 266p 270p 261p Expected term years 3.00 1.75 1.17 3.77 1.25 Expected dividend yield nil nil nil nil nil Share price volatility is based upon weekly movements in the Companys share price over a period prior to the grant date that is equal in length to the expected term of the award and for an additional rolling five-year period prior to that.
Cookson Group plc { 86 } Annual Report 2005 37.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued g IFRS 2 disclosures continued The terms and conditions of certain ESOS options granted to Mr S L Howard, a former Group Chief Executive of the Company, were modified in 2004 following Mr Howards departure in November 2004.
The majority of Mr Howards options lapsed on the date of his departure, but it was agreed that he should retain the right to exercise options granted to him in November 2002 and September 2003, subject to the average mid-market closing price of Cooksons shares exceeding 500p for a period of 30 consecutive dealing days prior to the option lapse date of 31 December 2005.
This price hurdle was not met and the options subsequently lapsed.
The incremental fair value granted as a result of these modifications was 74,000.
Fair value was calculated using a stochastic option-pricing model.
The total expense recognised in the income statement for each of the share-based payment schemes, all of which was charged within administration, distribution and selling costs, was as follows: 2005 2004 m m LTIP 0.9 0.2 MTIP 0.4 0.3 ESOS 0.9 0.9 SAYE 0.3 0.1 USSPP 0.3 0.3 SAR 0.4 0.4 Total expense 3.2 2.2 The total intrinsic value at the end of the year for cash-settled share-based payments that had vested was 0.7m 2004: 0.3m.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2005 2004 m m Non-current: Deferred purchase consideration 2.1 2.9 Accruals and other creditors 33.4 55.4 Total non-current payables 35.5 58.3 Current: Trade payables 132.2 152.7 Other taxes and social security 24.0 22.2 Accruals and other creditors 91.9 117.5 Deferred purchase consideration 1.1 10.8 Total current payables 249.2 303.2 Included within accruals and other creditors are liabilities in respect of cash-settled share-based payments of 0.7m 2004: 0.3m.
Cookson Group plc { 87 } Annual Report 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 39.
PROVISIONS Disposal Rationaliand sation and closure integration costs costs Other Total m m m m As at 1 January 2004 16.4 13.4 4.3 34.1 Exchange adjustments 0.7 0.1 0.3 0.5 Charged to income statement 22.7 22.7 Cash spend 6.0 14.2 0.7 20.9 Asset write-offs 1.0 6.3 0.6 7.9 Disposals 2.6 2.6 Reclassifications transfers 3.7 0.4 0.6 4.7 As at 31 December 2004 7.6 15.1 2.7 25.4 Exchange adjustments 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.8 Charged to income statement 1.9 18.5 0.2 20.2 Cash spend 5.3 17.0 0.1 22.4 Asset write-offs 3.0 3.0 Disposals 5.9 5.9 Reclassifications transfers 7.5 1.2 1.5 4.8 As at 31 December 2005 17.9 12.7 1.1 31.7 2005 2004 m m Analysed as: Non-current 11.1 10.3 Current 20.6 15.1 Total provisions 31.7 25.4 The provision for disposal and closure costs includes the Directors current best estimates of the costs to be incurred both in the fulfilment of obligations undertaken in connection with business disposals and those involved in the demolition and clean-up of closed sites.
The majority of the amounts provided for such projects is expected to be utilised over the next two years and the underlying estimates of costs are regularly updated to reflect changed circumstances with regard to individual transactions or projects.
The provisions for rationalisation and integration costs are used to manage the costs of all of the Groups initiatives to rationalise its operating activities.
The balance of 12.7m as at 31 December 2005 related mainly to future cash expenditure on rationalisation initiatives commenced in 2004 and 2005 and is expected to be spent over the course of the next two years.
The amount shown in respect of Other provisions comprises a number of items none of which are individually material in a Group context.
Cookson Group plc { 88 } Annual Report 2005 40.
COMMITMENTS 2005 2004 m m Capital commitments: Contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment 0.9 5.0 Operating lease commitments: The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Not later than one year 12.8 18.5 Later than one year and not later than five years 30.7 41.7 Later than five years 81.8 95.1 Total operating lease commitments 125.3 155.3 41.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Guarantees of borrowings for the Group as at 31 December 2005 amounted to 0.4m 2004: 1.4m and guarantees under property leases of discontinued operations amounted to 4.5m 2004: nil.
Details of guarantees given by the Company, on behalf of the Group, are given in note 63.
The Group has extensive international operations and several companies within the Group are parties to legal proceedings, certain of which are insured claims arising in the ordinary course of the operations of the Group company involved.
While the outcome of litigation can never be predicted with certainty, having regard to legal advice received and the Groups insurance arrangements, the Directors believe that none of these matters will, either individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition or results of operations.
Legal claims have been brought against Group companies by third parties alleging that persons have been harmed by exposure to hazardous materials.
Two of the Groups subsidiaries are subject to suits in the US relating to a small number of products containing asbestos manufactured prior to the acquisition of those subsidiaries by the Group.
To date, there have been no liability verdicts against any of these subsidiaries.
A number of suits have been withdrawn, dismissed or settled, and the amount paid, including costs, in relation to this litigation has not been material to the Groups financial position or results of operations.
EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE Except as disclosed in notes 58 and 59, there were no disclosable post balance sheet events.
SUBSIDIARIES Details of the principal subsidiaries and joint ventures of Cookson Group plc and the countries in which they are incorporated are given in note 52.
RELATED PARTIES Transactions between Group subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
During the year, Group subsidiaries made sales of products and services to Group joint venture companies of 1.3m 2004: 1.5m and made purchases of goods and services from Group joint venture companies of 3.7m 2004: 1.9m.
As at 31 December 2005 amounts owed by the Groups joint ventures to Group subsidiaries was nil 2004: 0.1m and amounts owed to Group joint ventures by Group subsidiaries was nil 2004: nil.
Any amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of amounts owed by related parties.
Details of related party information in relation to key management personnel are given in note 12.
Cookson Group plc { 89 } Annual Report 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 45.
EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS As stated in note 2, these are the Groups first financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS.
The accounting policies set out in note 3 have been consistently applied in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005, the comparative information for the year ended 31 December 2004 and the Groups opening IFRS balance sheet as at 1 January 2004.
The transition of the Groups financial statements from UK GAAP to IFRS involved a two-stage process.
The first stage was to make presentational and format changes to the financial statements as disclosed under UK GAAP to make them consistent with the presentation adopted by IFRS.
The second stage was to identify the areas of difference in recognition and measurement criteria between UK GAAP and IFRS and to restate the previously disclosed UK GAAP amounts accordingly.
45.1 PRESENTATIONAL AND FORMAT CHANGES The principal presentational and format changes are described below.
a Income statement i Various changes in terminology have been made, the most significant of which are shown as below: UK GAAP IFRS Profit and loss account Income statement Turnover Revenue Interest Finance costs ii Under UK GAAP the income statement showed revenue for the Group both gross and net of its share of revenue from joint ventures, whereas under IFRS revenue excludes the revenue from joint ventures.
iii Under UK GAAP the Groups share of trading profit from joint ventures was shown separately in the income statement and the Groups finance costs and taxation included its share of the finance costs and taxation of its joint ventures.
Under IFRS, the Groups share of profit after tax from its joint ventures is presented as a single item before profit before tax.
iv Under UK GAAP the profit or loss on disposal of discontinued operations was disclosed before tax, whereas under IFRS it is shown after tax.
b Balance sheet i Long-term debtors previously included within current assets amounting to 10.6m as at 31 December 2004 1 January 2004: 8.2m have been reclassified as other non-current assets.
ii Deferred tax assets and liabilities are shown separately on the balance sheet as non-current items.
This has resulted in a reclassification as at 31 December 2004 of deferred tax assets previously included within debtors of 35.3m 1 January 2004: 53.5m to non-current deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities previously included within provisions of 8.6m as at 31 December 2004 1 January 2004: 11.5m to non-current deferred tax liabilities.
iii Income taxes recoverable and payable are shown as separate line items on the balance sheet and as current or non-current as appropriate.
This has resulted in a reclassification as at 31 December 2004 of amounts previously included within debtors of 2.2m 1 January 2004: nil to non-current income tax recoverable and 0.9m 1 January 2004: 3.0m to current income tax recoverable and of amounts previously included within creditors of 11.6m 2004: 15.5m to current income tax payable.
iv Amounts received under debtor securitisation arrangements are shown as liabilities and not as a deduction from the associated debtor balances.
This has resulted in a reclassification of these receipts as at 31 December 2004 of 10.7m 1 January 2004: 11.2m from debtors to interest-bearing loans and borrowings within current liabilities.
v Provisions expected to be settled within one year of the balance sheet date are shown as current liabilities.
This has resulted in a reclassification as at 31 December 2004 of 15.1m 1 January 2004: 13.4m from non-current liabilities to current liabilities.
vi Certain US assets that are held in Rabbi Trusts to meet pension obligations are not classified by IAS 19 as pension assets.
This has resulted in a reclassification of these assets as at 31 December 2004 of 6.4m 1 January 2004: 6.9m from current asset prepayments to non-current other investments.
vii Overdrafts, previously shown as a component of borrowings within current liabilities, are now included within cash and cash equivalents.
This has resulted in a reclassification as at 31 December 2004 of 3.4m 1 January 2004: 4.0m from current liabilities to current assets.
viii Pension balances as at 31 December 2004 that were previously reported within trade and other receivables of 26.7m 1 January 2004: 19.9m, trade and other payables of 39.6m 1 January 2004: 41.3m and provisions for liabilities and charges of 23.3m 1 January 2004: 25.7m are shown as a single line item for employee benefits within non-current liabilities amounting to 36.2m 1 January 2004: 47.1m.
c Statement of cash flows i In addition to the change in presentation brought about by item vii above, the Group statement of cash flows under IFRS must comply with the format and headings prescribed by IAS 7, Cash Flow Statements.
With the exception of the reclassification described in vii above, no other IFRS transitional adjustments impacted on the restated net cash flow from operating, investing or financing activities.
Cookson Group plc { 90 } Annual Report 2005 45.
EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS continued 45.2 CHANGES TO AMOUNTS PREVIOUSLY DISCLOSED UNDER UK GAAP In the tables shown below, amounts appearing in the columns headed As reported under UK GAAP have been subject to the presentational and format adjustments described in 45.1 above.
a Reconciliation of the Groups income statement for the year ended 31 December 2004 As reported under Effect of As reported UK GAAP transition under IFRS Notes m m m Revenue i 1,653.0 0.5 1,652.5 Manufacturing costs raw materials ii 756.2 0.4 755.8 other 447.1 447.1 Administration, selling and distribution costs iii 334.1 0.6 334.7 Trading profit 115.6 0.7 114.9 Rationalisation of operating activities 22.7 22.7 Amortisation and impairment of intangibles iv 32.5 31.7 0.8 Loss relating to fixed assets 16.8 16.8 Profit from operations 43.6 31.0 74.6 Net finance costs ongoing activities v 31.9 0.3 32.2 other activities 5.4 5.4 Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 2.3 2.3 Profit before tax 19.4 30.7 50.1 Income tax costs ongoing activities vi 24.5 0.2 24.3 other activities vi 3.8 4.1 7.9 Loss profit on disposal of operations vii 37.2 2.3 34.9 Loss profit for the year 46.1 29.1 17.0 Loss profit for the year attributable to: Equity holders of the parent company 50.2 29.1 21.1 Minority interests 4.1 4.1 Loss profit for the year 46.1 29.1 17.0 Cookson Group plc { 91 } Annual Report 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 45.
EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS continued 45.2 CHANGES TO AMOUNTS PREVIOUSLY DISCLOSED UNDER UK GAAP continued a Reconciliation of the Groups income statement for the year ended 31 December 2004 continued Effect of transition m i Revenue Adjustment of sales to prior period 0.5 ii Manufacturing costs raw materials Adjustment of sales to prior period 0.4 iii Administration, selling and distribution costs Long-term employee benefits note c i 1.6 Holiday pay accruals note c ii 0.1 Share-based payments note c iii 2.2 Operating leases reclassified as finance leases note c v 0.3 Depreciation charge on mothballed assets 0.2 Total administration, selling and distribution costs 0.6 iv Amortisation and impairment of intangibles Reversal of goodwill amortisation charged under UK GAAP note c iv 31.7 v Net finance costs ongoing activities Operating leases reclassified as finance leases note c v 0.3 vi Income tax Deferred tax on IFRS adjustments for: Long-term employee benefits, holiday pay accruals and share-based payments 0.2 Goodwill note c vi 4.1 Total income tax 3.9 vii Loss profit on disposal of operations Reversal of goodwill amortisation charged under UK GAAP note c iv 2.3 Cookson Group plc { 92 } Annual Report 2005 45.
EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS continued 45.2 CHANGES TO AMOUNTS PREVIOUSLY DISCLOSED UNDER UK GAAP continued b Reconciliation of the Groups equity continued Effect of Effect of transition transition 1 January 31 December 2004 2004 m m i Property, plant and equipment Operating leases reclassified as finance leases note c v 4.5 3.9 Accumulated depreciation charge on mothballed assets 0.4 0.6 Total property, plant and equipment 4.1 3.3 ii Intangible assets Reversal of goodwill amortisation charged under UK GAAP note c iv 31.7 iii Deferred tax assets Deferred tax on IFRS adjustments for: Long-term employee benefits, holiday pay accruals and share-based payments 1.6 1.9 Goodwill note c vi 2.2 6.0 Total deferred tax assets 0.6 4.1 iv Inventories Adjustment of sales to prior period 0.3 0.1 v Current trade and other receivables Adjustment of sales to prior period 0.4 0.1 vi Retained earnings Holiday pay accruals note c ii 0.8 1.0 Operating leases reclassified as finance leases note c v 0.3 0.3 Recognition of actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension and other post-retirement obligations note c i 126.1 153.7 Adjustment of sales to prior period 0.1 Reversal of goodwill amortisation charged under UK GAAP note c iv 31.7 Accumulated depreciation charge on mothballed assets 0.4 0.6 127.5 123.9 Tax effect of all IFRS adjustments 0.5 4.1 Total retained earnings 128.0 128.0 vii Employee benefits Recognition of actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension and other post-retirement obligations note c i 126.1 153.7 viii Current interest-bearing loans and borrowings Operating leases reclassified as finance leases note c v 4.8 4.2 ix Current trade and other payables Holiday pay accruals note c ii 0.8 1.0 x Income tax payable Income taxes on long-term employee benefit deficit 0.1 Cookson Group plc { 94 } Annual Report 2005 45.
EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS continued 45.2 CHANGES TO AMOUNTS PREVIOUSLY DISCLOSED UNDER UK GAAP continued c Explanation of the significant changes to amounts previously reported under UK GAAP i Long-term employee benefits Under UK GAAP, the Group accounted for pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations in accordance with SSAP 24, Accounting for Pension Costs.
Additional disclosures were also given in compliance with FRS 17, Retirement Benefits.
Under IFRS, the Group accounts for pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations in accordance with IAS 19, Employee Benefits as amended, which is similar to FRS 17 in many respects, particularly in that it requires the net deficit of the Groups defined benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit arrangements to be brought onto the Group balance sheet.
As permitted by IFRS 1, all cumulative actuarial gains and losses relating to the Groups pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations have been recognised in equity at the transition date.
Under IAS 19, the fair value of pension scheme assets is determined using the bid price, as opposed to the mid-market price used under UK GAAP.
With regard to other post-retirement obligations, adoption of IAS 19 leads to the recognition of certain long-term benefit obligations, including leaving and termination obligations, which were not previously recognised under UK GAAP.
Under UK GAAP, the Group recognised net accruals for pension and other post-retirement obligations as at 31 December 2004 of 29.8m 1 January 2004: 40.2m.
Under IFRS, these balances are reversed to reserves and replaced in total with an  value of the net deficit arising on the Groups defined benefit pension schemes and other postretirement benefit arrangements.
The actuarial valuation of the Groups combined defined benefit pension schemes and other post-retirement benefit arrangements as at 31 December 2004 produced a net deficit of 189.9m 1 January 2004: 173.2m, which is recognised in the Group balance sheet as Employee benefits.
The comparative combined net deficit valuation of the Groups employee benefit obligations under FRS 17 as at 31 December 2004 was 175.3m.
Under UK GAAP, the regular charge to the profit and loss account in respect of defined benefit pension and other postretirement obligations was 17.1m in 2004.
The equivalent charge to the income statement under IAS 19 for 2004 was 13.7m.
As a result of the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS, the net impact on Group reserves in respect of the Groups employee benefit arrangements was a reduction of 153.7m as at 31 December 2004 1 January 2004: 126.1m.
ii Short-term employee benefits holiday pay accruals Under IAS 19, Cookson accrues for the cost of all short-term accumulating compensated absences, such as holiday entitlement earned but not taken at the balance sheet date.
Under UK GAAP, Group companies accrued for holiday pay only where this was required under local accounting requirements.
The impact of IAS 19 on the Groups transition to IFRS is to increase the holiday pay accrual by 1.0m as at 31 December 2004 1 January 2004: 0.8m.
The incremental charge to the income statement for 2004 was 0.1m.
iii Share-based payments The Group has a number of share-based incentive option arrangements.
Under IFRS 2, Share-based Payment, the Group has to fair value the cost of share options at the date the options are granted and recognise that cost over the relevant vesting period.
Historically, the Company shares used to satisfy the exercise of those options granted under the Groups share-based incentive arrangements that are equity-settled have been newly-issued shares, or shares held through the Groups Employee Share Ownership Plan.
Accordingly, no profit and loss account charge was recognised under UK GAAP.
The Company has followed the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 and applied it only to those awards made after 7 November 2002 that had not vested by 1 January 2005.
As a result of the adoption of IFRS 2, an income statement charge of 2.2m was made for 2004.
Cookson Group plc { 95 } Annual Report 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 45.
EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS continued 45.2 CHANGES TO AMOUNTS PREVIOUSLY DISCLOSED UNDER UK GAAP continued c Explanation of the significant changes to amounts previously reported under UK GAAP continued iv Business combinations and Goodwill Under IFRS 3, Business combinations, the purchase cost of all business acquisitions is required to be applied against the fair value of all identified tangible, separable intangible assets and liabilities of the acquired business in the determination of any goodwill arising on acquisition.
IFRS 3 further requires that any such separable intangible fixed assets are amortised over their useful lives and that goodwill must then be carried at cost with annual impairment reviews.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption under IFRS 1 not to restate all business combinations prior to 1 January 2004 in line with the requirements of IFRS 3.
As a result of the adoption of IFRS 3, goodwill amounting to 317.8m as at 1 January 2004 that had arisen on acquisitions made before 1998 and that had previously been written-off to Group reserves remains so written-off and will no longer be recycled through the income statement on any subsequent disposal of the businesses to which it originally related.
In addition, goodwill of 505.6m recognised on the Group balance sheet under UK GAAP as at 1 January 2004, is now carried unamortised and is subject to an annual impairment review.
The goodwill amortisation charge for 2004 of 31.7m under UK GAAP has been reversed and the loss arising on business disposals has been restated to take account of the impact of IFRS 3 on the goodwill previously associated with these disposals.
vLeases Under IAS 17, Leases, the distinction between finance leases and operating leases is similar to, but not exactly the same as, that under UK GAAP and following a review of the operating lease arrangements throughout the Group, certain of these leases have been determined to qualify as finance leases under IFRS.
Accordingly, as at 31 December 2004 3.9m 1 January 2004: 4.5m in relation to these leases has been capitalised within property, plant and equipment and the corresponding obligation under the leases of 4.2m 1 January 2004: 4.8m has been recognised within interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
The impact on the income statement is to replace the operating lease rentals charged under UK GAAP with a depreciation charge under IFRS, the net effect of which is to increase trading profit by 0.3m.
In addition, the finance element of the lease payments is recognised within net finance costs, which are increased by 0.3m.
vi Deferred tax With certain exceptions, deferred tax under IFRS is recognised on all temporary differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
The principal exceptions relate to temporary differences arising from Group investments where the Group is able to control the reversal of those temporary differences and those differences are not expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
In addition, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is more likely than not that they will be realised within the foreseeable future.
On transition to IFRS, the main areas in which changes to deferred tax assets and liabilities have been identified are in respect of rolled-over taxable gains, pensions, holiday pay accruals, share-based payments and on tax deductible goodwill.
In the case of the latter, since goodwill arising on consolidation is now frozen in value under IFRS, subject to any impairment charges required, but goodwill amortisation is still allowed as a deduction for tax purposes in certain jurisdictions, this has the effect of generating a deferred tax liability which will continue to grow in future periods until such time as the goodwill amortisation tax deductions cease or the goodwill asset is written-off on disposal of the underlying businesses or as a result of impairment charges.
The net tax impact of the adjustments made on adoption of IFRS by the Group resulted in a reduction of deferred tax assets of 4.1m as at 31 December 2004 1 January 2004: 0.6m, including a liability of 6.0m as at 31 December 2004 1 January 2004: 2.2m associated with the Groups goodwill balance.
Cookson Group plc { 96 } Annual Report 2005 45.
EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS continued 45.2 CHANGES TO AMOUNTS PREVIOUSLY DISCLOSED UNDER UK GAAP continued d Other transitional adjustments i Financial instruments A net adjustment to opening Group reserves of 19.2m has been made in the period, the major components of which are explained below.
As part of its transition to IFRS, the Company has adopted for the purpose of its consolidated Group accounts, with effect from 1 January 2005, IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation: and IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Comparative figures have not been amended in connection with these changes of accounting policy, as permitted by IFRS 1.
As a consequence of the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39, the Group accounts must recognise certain financial instruments used in its operations at fair value.
The use of financial instruments to any significant extent is restricted mainly to the Groups central treasury operations, which uses forward foreign exchange contracts to convert the currency denomination of debt instruments and interest rate swaps to switch debt instruments between fixed and floating rates of interest.
In addition, certain of the Groups manufacturing operations use commodity forward purchase and sale contracts and forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the impact on their trading results of underlying movements in commodity prices and foreign exchange rates.
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 39, the fair value of certain financial investments at the end of the reporting period is reflected on the Group balance sheet as either a financial asset or financial liability, with the corresponding charge or credit being recognised either in the income statement or through reserves.
As the adoption of these standards represents a change in accounting policy, the impact of the adoption of IAS 39 as at 1 January 2005 has been accounted for as an adjustment to the opening Group balance sheet.
There was no impact to opening Group reserves as a result of the adoption of these standards, with interest-bearing loans and borrowings being decreased by 1.1m, inventory reduced by 1.2m and trade and other receivables reduced by 0.2m.
As a further consequence resulting from the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39, deferred income of 22.3m as at 1 January 2005, which was being carried on the Group balance sheet in respect of the close-out of interest rate swaps in prior periods, has been credited to opening Group reserves, net of an associated tax charge.
Under UK GAAP this deferred income was being credited to the income statement over the term of the underlying loan arrangements to which the swaps had related.
As a consequence of adopting IAS 39, the Group has included within other investments as at 1 January 2005 two equity trade investments at market value and, accordingly, an opening credit to Group reserves was recognised as at 1 January 2005 of 2.6m to reflect this change.
ii Cumulative currency translation differences Under UK GAAP, translation differences arising on the consolidation of the results of and investment in foreign operations do not have to be separately identified and accounted for in subsequent disposals of those foreign operations.
Under IAS 21, The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates, such translation differences must be separately reported in equity, net of the result on any related hedging instruments: and on disposal of a foreign operation, any associated cumulative translation differences are transferred to the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
The Company has adopted the exemption allowed under IFRS 1 not to separately recognise cumulative translation differences arising prior to the transition date.
As a result, all cumulative translation differences as at 1 January 2004 are deemed to be zero and all subsequent disposals will exclude any translation differences arising prior to the date of transition.
Cookson Group plc { 97 } Annual Report 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 46.
COMPANY-ONLY BALANCE SHEET AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2005 Notes 46 to 64 relate to the Company-only financial statements of Cookson Group plc, from which the following balance sheet is extracted and which were authorised for issue by the Directors on 14 March 2006 and signed on its behalf by Robert Beeston, Chairman and Michael Butterworth, Group Finance Director.
2005 2004 As restated note 47 Notes m m Fixed assets Tangible assets 51 0.2 0.7 Investment in subsidiaries 52 1,891.9 1,888.1 Total fixed assets 1,892.1 1,888.8 Current assets Debtors amounts falling due within one year 53 5.5 10.4 Cash and short-term deposits 7.2 Derivative financial instruments 54 3.6 Total current assets 9.1 17.6 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 55 56.7 81.6 Other creditors 56 207.5 183.9 Total current liabilities 264.2 265.5 Net current liabilities 255.1 247.9 Total assets less current liabilities 1,637.0 1,640.9 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 55 339.7 321.6 Other creditors 56 18.2 Total non-current creditors 339.7 339.8 Provisions for liabilities and charges 57 6.7 Post-retirement benefit liability 6.3 6.7 Net assets 1,284.3 1,294.4 Equity capital and reserves Called up share capital 58 375.5 375.5 Share premium account 59 645.5 643.4 Retained earnings 60 126.4 69.6 Other reserves 60 136.9 205.9 Total equity shareholders funds 1,284.3 1,294.4 Cookson Group plc { 98 } Annual Report 2005 47.
BASIS OF PREPARATION The accounts at note 46 are prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and under the historical cost convention and have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
The Companys results are included in the consolidated financial statements of Cookson Group plc, a company registered in the United Kingdom.
Consequently, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 revised 1996.
The Company is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8 from disclosing related party transactions with entities that are part of the Cookson Group plc group.
A separate profit and loss account dealing with the results of the Company has not been presented, as permitted by Section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The following principal accounting policies have been applied consistently when dealing with all items which are material in relation to the Company-only accounts.
48.1 CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING POLICY During the year the Company adopted the following new Financial Reporting Standards FRS issued by the Accounting Standards Board: FRS 20 Share-based payment FRS 21 Events after the balance sheet date FRS 22 Earnings per share FRS 23 The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates FRS 24 Financial reporting in hyperinflationary economies FRS 25 Financial instruments: disclosure and presentation FRS 26 Financial instruments: measurement FRS 27 Life Assurance FRS 28 Corresponding amounts In addition, in compliance with the transitional arrangements of FRS 17, the Company has also recognised the actuarial deficit in relation to its post-retirement obligations other than pensions and its unapproved unfunded pension benefit obligations.
Where required, comparative figures for 2004 have been restated, details of which are given in note 60.
48.2 CURRENT AND DEFERRED TAXATION Tax currently payable is based on the taxable result for the year.
Deferred taxation is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences that have originated, but not reversed, at the balance sheet date, with the exception that deferred taxation assets are only recognised if it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable future profits from which the reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Provision is made for the tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable.
48.3 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Company operates equity-settled share-based payment arrangements for employees.
The fair value determined at the grant date takes account of the effect of marketbased conditions, such as the Total Shareholder Return targets upon which vesting is conditioned, and is expensed on a straightline basis over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity.
48.4 PENSION COSTS The Company participates in a UK-wide Group pension plan providing benefits based on final pensionable salary.
The assets of the plan are held separately from those of the Company.
The Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the plan on a consistent and reasonable basis and therefore, as required by FRS 17, Retirement Benefits, accounts for the plan as if it were a defined contribution scheme.
As a result, the amount charged to the profit and loss account represents the contributions payable to the plan in respect of the accounting period.
The Company also participates in a UK-wide Group defined contribution pension plan.
The assets of the plan are held separately from those of the Company in an independently administered fund.
The amount charged to the profit and loss account represents the contributions payable to the plan in respect of the accounting period.
Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Cookson Group plc { 99 } Annual Report 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 48.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 48.5 FOREIGN CURRENCIES Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Differences arising from the translation, at closing rates, of loans to overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures, foreign currency borrowings, trading and other items are taken to profit or loss.
48.6 INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES Shares in subsidiaries are stated at cost, together with long-term loans that are stated at amortised cost, less any impairment in value.
48.7 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Company uses derivative financial instruments in the form of forward foreign exchange contracts to manage the Companys exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates on retranslation of the Companys subsidiaries net assets on consolidation.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Forward foreign exchange contracts are initially recognised at fair value, which is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date.
At each subsequent balance sheet date, forward foreign exchange contracts are measured at their quoted market price at the balance sheet date with any change in fair value being recognised in profit or loss.
48.8 PROVISIONS Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Company will be required to settle that obligation.
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSE The total employee benefit expense for the year comprises: 2005 2004 m m Wages and salaries 5.9 7.5 Social security costs 0.6 0.8 Share-based payments note 62 0.9 0.4 Pension costs 7.4 10.6 Other post-retirement benefits note 61 0.2 0.2 Total employee benefit expense 15.0 19.5 The average number of employees during the year was 40 2004: 44.
For Directors remuneration, refer to the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 44.
TANGIBLE ASSETS The net book value of the Companys tangible fixed assets as at 31 December 2005 amounted to 0.2m in respect of leasehold improvements, for which depreciation charged to profit or loss during the year amounted to 0.5m.
Cookson Group plc { 100 } Annual Report 2005 52.
INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES Net book Cost Loans Provisions value m m m m As at 1 January 2005 446.8 1,518.8 77.5 1,888.1 Exchange adjustments 37.0 37.0 Additions 52.6 63.5 116.1 Disposals, repayments and other movements 31.6 123.9 6.2 149.3 As at 31 December 2005 467.8 1,495.4 71.3 1,891.9 The principal subsidiaries and joint ventures of Cookson Group plc and the countries in which they are incorporated are as follows: Cookson America, Inc. USA Electroplating Engineers of Japan Ltd, Japan 50% Cookson Australia Pty Ltd, Australia Frys Metals Inc. USA Cookson Ceramics Ltd, England and Wales Polyclad Laminates, Inc. USA Cookson Europe SA, Switzerland Stern Leach Company, USA Cookson Investments, Inc. USA Stern Metals, Inc. USA Cookson Investments Ltd, England and Wales Vesuvius Crucible Company, USA Cookson Singapore Pte Ltd, Singapore Vesuvius United States Corporation, USA Cookson Overseas Ltd, England and Wales Wilkes-Lucas Ltd, England and Wales Cookson Precious Metals Ltd, England and Wales Where marked with an asterisk, the ordinary capital of the above companies was owned by a Cookson Group plc subsidiary as at 31 December 2005.
All of the above are wholly-owned, unless otherwise stated.
A full list of Group companies will be included in the Companys Annual Return to the Registrar of Companies.
All of the above companies have the same year-end as Cookson Group plc with exception of Electroplating Engineers of Japan Ltd which has a year-end of 31 March.
As detailed in note 15, on 15 December 2005 the Company announced that it had entered into an agreement to sell its Laminates business to ISOLA Group S. A. R. L. 53.
DEBTORS 2005 2004 m m Amounts falling due within one year: Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 1.3 4.8 Prepayments 0.1 0.1 Corporate taxes recoverable 2.9 2.9 Other debtors 1.2 2.4 5.5 10.2 Amounts falling due after more than one year: Other debtors 0.2 Total debtors 5.5 10.4 54.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Derivative financial instruments comprise forward foreign exchange contracts that are measured at fair value, with changes in fair value recognised in the profit and loss account.
Prior to the Company adopting FRS 26 on 1 January 2005, these forward foreign exchange contracts were offset against borrowings.
The fair value of these forward foreign exchange contracts as at 31 December 2005 was 3.6m.
Cookson Group plc { 101 } Annual Report 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 55.
INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS 2005 2004 m m Amounts falling due within one year: Loans 14.1 Bank overdrafts 56.7 67.5 Total amounts falling due within one year 56.7 81.6 Amounts falling due after more than one year: Loans 340.8 323.7 Capitalised borrowing costs 1.1 2.1 Total amounts falling due after more than one year 339.7 321.6 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 396.4 403.2 Analysis of loans and bank overdrafts: 2005 2004 m m Loans and bank overdrafts repayable within five years: Secured 40.0 Unsecured senior loan notes 206.7 127.5 Unsecured other 80.0 68.6 Loans repayable after five years: Unsecured senior loan notes 110.8 169.2 Capitalised borrowing costs 1.1 2.1 Total loans and bank overdrafts 396.4 403.2 The loans and bank overdrafts are repayable as follows: 2005 2004 m m On demand or within one year 56.7 81.6 In the second year 104.7 40.0 In the third year 93.7 In the fourth year 46.7 In the fifth year 78.6 20.8 After five years 110.8 169.2 Capitalised borrowing costs 1.1 2.1 Total loans and bank overdrafts 396.4 403.2 Less: amount repayable within one year 56.7 81.6 Amount repayable in more than one year 339.7 321.6 Cookson Group plc { 102 } Annual Report 2005 56.
OTHER CREDITORS 2005 2004 m m Amounts falling due within one year: Amounts owed to subsidiaries 195.9 167.2 Other taxes and social security 0.4 0.6 Accruals and other creditors 11.2 16.1 Total amounts falling due within one year 207.5 183.9 Amounts falling due after more than one year: Other creditors 18.2 57.
PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES The balance of 6.7m as at 31 December 2005 2004: nil represents a deferred tax liability note 60 in respect of 22.3m of deferred income relating to interest rate swaps closed-out in prior years, which the Company recognised on 1 January 2005 on adoption of FRS 26.
SHARE CAPITAL 2004 2005 restated m m Authorised 1,935.0m ordinary shares of 10p each 193.5 193.5 727.6m deferred shares of 49p each 356.5 356.5 As at 31 December 550.0 550.0 Issued and fully paid 190.4m ordinary shares of 10p each 19.0 19.0 727.6m deferred shares of 49p each 356.5 356.5 As at 31 December 375.5 375.5 At the Companys Annual General Meeting held on 26 May 2005, shareholders approved a share consolidation.
The share consolidation took effect following the close of business on 26 May 2005, with shareholders receiving one new ordinary share of 10p each for every 10 existing ordinary shares of 1p each held at the close of business on 26 May 2005.
Trading in the new ordinary shares of 10p commenced on 27 May 2005.
On 15 February 2006, the High Court of Justice confirmed a reduction of capital of the Company from 550 million divided into 1,934,963,124 ordinary shares of 10 pence each and 727,558,546 deferred shares of 49 pence each to 193.5m divided into 1,934,963,124 ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
The Order of the Court was registered on 15 February 2006 and the reduction of capital was therefore effective on that date.
Cookson Group plc { 103 } Annual Report 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 58.
SHARE CAPITAL continued Movements in the issued share capital of the Company during the year were as follows: Ordinary shares Deferred shares mm mm In issue as at 1 January 2005, as restated 189.6 19.0 727.6 356.5 Issued on exercise of share options 0.8 As at 31 December 2005 190.4 19.0 727.6 356.5 The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time, are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company and rank equally with regard to entitlement to the Companys residual assets.
At an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held on 12 January 2006, shareholders approved special resolutions to reduce the issued share capital of the Company by cancelling and extinguishing the deferred shares of 49p each.
The cancellation of the deferred shares became effective on 15 February 2006 upon registration of the order of the High Court with the Registrar of Companies, at which date the balance of 356.5m on the account became a non-distributable reserve of the Company.
This reserve becomes distributable only at such time when all external creditors of the Company as at 15 February 2006 have either been fully settled, or have agreed that this reserve may be deemed distributable.
Also at the Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held on 12 January 2006, shareholders approved a special resolution to amend the Companys Articles of Association to facilitate termination of the Companys registration with the Securities Exchange Commission SEC of the US.
The amendment included a provision conferring upon the Board the power to require ordinary shares which are held directly or indirectly by US resident shareholders to be sold in order to reduce the number of such shareholders below 300, as presently required by the SEC for termination of registration.
In order to avoid the costs of complying with SEC registration requirements in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2005, the Board commenced exercising these compulsory transfer provisions soon after the amendment was approved by shareholders and, having reduced the number of US resident shareholders below 300, the Company announced on 21 February 2006 that it had filed a Form 15 with the SEC to terminate the SEC registration of its ordinary shares.
SEC fide-registration will occur 90 days after 21 February 2006 or such shorter period as the SEC may determine.
On filing of the Form, the Companys obligations to file certain forms and reports with the SEC, including Forms 20-F and 6-K, were suspended.
Under currently applicable SEC regulations, after the fide-registration takes effect, the number of the Companys US resident shareholders must remain below 300 at each financial year-end to avoid re-commencement of SEC reporting and other applicable US obligations.
The Companys Articles of Association give the Companys Directors the ability to limit the number of US resident shareholders for this purpose.
SHARE PREMIUM ACCOUNT As at 31 December 2005 the share premium account amounted to 645.5m 2004: 643.4m.
The share option exercises during 2005, shown in note 58, increased the balance on the account by 2.1m.
At an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held on 12 January 2006, shareholders approved a special resolution to cancel the share premium account of the Company.
The cancellation became effective on 15 February 2006 upon registration of the order of the High Court with the Registrar of Companies, at which date the balance of 646.9m on the account became a nondistributable reserve of the Company.
Cookson Group plc { 104 } Annual Report 2005 60.
RESERVES Share Other Total Treasury option retained retained Other Total shares reserve earnings earnings reserves reserves m m m m m m As at 1 January 2005, as previously reported 12.4 109.5 97.1 205.9 303.0 Prior year adjustments see below 0.5 28.0 27.5 27.5 As at 1 January 2005, as restated 12.4 0.5 81.5 69.6 205.9 275.5 Opening reserves adjustment 15.6 15.6 15.6 Net loss transferred from the profit and loss account 27.3 27.3 27.3 Acturial loss on employee benefit plans 1.3 1.3 1.3 Recognition of share-based payments 0.8 0.8 0.8 Transfers 69.0 69.0 69.0 As at 31 December 2005 12.4 1.3 137.5 126.4 136.9 263.3 The net loss for the year is after charging dividends of nil 2004: nil.
During the year, and after receiving independent professional legal advice, cumulative interest income received from a subsidiary company, previously held to be unrealised, was deemed to have been realised and resulted in a transfer of 69.0m from other reserves to retained earnings.
Prior year adjustments Share-based payments The Company has made a prior period adjustment during 2005 following the adoption of FRS 20, Share-based payment.
Under FRS 20, the Company is required to fair value the cost of equity-settled share-based payments at the date of the options being granted, which cost has to be recognised over the relevant vesting periods.
The Company has adopted the exemption given by FRS 20 to only apply the standard to awards made after 7 November 2002.
The adoption of FRS 20 has given rise to a cumulative prior period adjustment to opening retained earnings of 0.5m debit as at 31 December 2004.
A separate share option reserve has been created and a cumulative opening adjustment of 0.5m credit as at 31 December 2004 has been made to this reserve to recognise the equity-settled share based payments.
Post-employment benefits The Company has made a prior period adjustment during 2005 following the full implementation of FRS 17, Retirement benefits.
Under FRS 17, the Company is required to bring onto the Company balance sheet the originally-valued net deficit of the Companys unfunded post-employment benefit arrangements, which relate to legacy healthcare benefits and certain unapproved unfunded retirement benefit obligations.
A cumulative prior period adjustment of 0.7m debit as at 31 December 2004 has been made to the opening profit and loss account.
In addition, the Company participates in a UK-wide Cookson defined benefit pension scheme, note 61.
As the Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme, it therefore accounts for its membership of the scheme as it would for a defined contributions scheme.
Under FRS 17, the Company is required to derecognise its SSAP 24 pension prepayment and has accordingly recognised a cumulative prior year adjustment of 26.8m debit as at 31 December 2004 to the opening balance of retained earnings.
Opening reserves adjustment Derivative financial instruments The balance sheet as at 1 January 2005 included 22.3m in respect of deferred income relating to interest rate swaps closed-out in prior years.
The total profit arising on the close-out of these swaps was previously being brought into income over the term of the underlying loan arrangements to which the swaps had related.
On adoption of FRS 26 with effect from 1 January 2005, such credit balance was taken directly to reserves, net of a related tax charge of 6.7m.
Treasury shares As at 1 January 2005 and 31 December 2005 1.2m ordinary shares of 10p each of the Company were held by Cookson Investments Jersey Limited as Trustee of the Cookson Group Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP, with a nominal value of 0.1m, which were purchased at a gross cost of 12.4m.
The purchase of these shares was financed by the Company out of borrowings included in the Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2005.
The market value of these shares as at 31 December 2005 was 4.9m 2004: 4.1m.
The Trustee of the ESOP has waived its rights to receive dividends on the shares held.
The shares are held, as Treasury Shares, to meet share option obligations as and when they arise at the discretion of the Company.
Cookson Group plc { 105 } Annual Report 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 60.
RESERVES continued Treasury shares continued Options exercisable over ordinary shares and capable of being satisfied through new allotments of shares or through shares held by the Company's ESOP as at 31 December 2005 were as follows: Number of Option Latest years options Years of allocation of exercise allocations award grant prices vesting outstanding Long-Term Incentive Plan 2004-2005 2.93-4.23 2007-2008 1,329,833 Mid-Term Incentive Plan 2004-2005 4.00-4.40 2006 268,549 Executive Option Schemes 1996-2003 2.50-29.79 2006-2013 5,734,699 UK and International share savings schemes 2000-2004 2.50-18.36 2006-2010 965,147 US Stock Purchase Plan 2004 2.61 2006 268,987 61.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Pension plans The Company participates in a UK-wide Group defined benefit pension scheme.
As the Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme on a consistent and reasonable basis, it therefore accounts for its membership of the scheme as it would for a defined contribution scheme.
Costs charged in the year in respect of its contributions to the scheme were 7.3m 2004: 10.6m.
The pension scheme is a closed scheme and therefore under the projected unit method the current service cost would be expected to increase as the members of the scheme reach retirement.
The last full actuarial valuation of the UK defined benefit scheme, which was performed by an independent qualified actuary, was carried out as at 31 December 2003.
At that date, the market value of the plan assets was 185.9m, representing 69% of accrued plan benefits at the time using the projected unit method of valuation.
The 2003 full valuation has been updated, as appropriate, in order to estimate the liabilities of the scheme as at 31 December 2005, at which date the market value of the plan assets was 245.9m 2004: 204.1m, representing 68% 2004: 67% of estimated accrued plan benefits, including the Companys obligation with respect to its unapproved unfunded retirement benefit plan.
The Company also participates in a UK-wide Group defined contribution pension scheme.
The pension cost charge for 2005 represents contributions payable by the Company to the scheme and amounted to 0.1m 2004: nil.
There were no outstanding contributions payable to the scheme as at 31 December 2005 2004: nil.
Post-employment plans other than pension plans The Company operates a post-employment healthcare benefits plan.
The costs of providing these benefits are not funded.
The level of the accrued plan benefits provision is based on independent actuarial valuations, using the projected unit method.
The last full actuarial valuation of the plan, which was performed by an independent qualified actuary, was carried out at 31 December 2003, which has been updated, as appropriate, in order to estimate the liabilities of the plan as at 31 December 2005.
Principal assumptions used to calculate post-employment plan obligations: 2005 2004 % % Discount rate 4.75 5.25 Healthcare cost trend long-term 3.80 4.00 next year 8.00 8.00 The movement on the present value of post-employment benefit plan liabilities is as follows: 2005 2004 m m Liabilities as at 1 January 4.2 4.5 Interest cost 0.2 0.2 Net benefits paid out 0.2 0.2 Actuarial loss gain recognised in equity 0.7 0.3 Liabilities as at 31 December 4.9 4.2 Cookson Group plc { 106 } Annual Report 2005 61.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued The history of experience adjustments is as follows: 2005 2004 2003 2002 Experience gains losses arising on the plan liabilities m 0.3 0.1 as % of present value of plan liabilities 7% 2% Actuarial loss gain recognised in equity m 0.7 0.3 1.6 as % of present value of plan liabilities 13% 7% 36% 62.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Company operates a number of different share-based payment schemes, the main features of each scheme are detailed in note 37.
exercisable expire pence LTIP 288,834 502,679 156,034 635,479 2007 2008 Exercise price nil nil nil nil n a MTIP 28,738 14,932 13,806 2006 2006 Exercise price nil nil nil n a ESOS 705,535 480,311 225,224 1,903 2006 2013 Exercise price 271p 267p 280p 320p 250-360p SAYE 11,052 6,049 5,003 2006 2008 Exercise price 312p 308p 316p 270-350p Options Outstanding options exercisable Latest As at 1 As at 31 as at 31 Earliest year in Range of January Forfeited December December year in which exercise 2004 Granted Exercised lapsed 2004 2004 which options prices No.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued Details of modifications are provided in note 37.
The fair values of options granted in the year, together with the other inputs into the option pricing models, are shown below.
LTIP Options granted during 2005: Fair value of options granted per share 247p Share price on date of grant per share 349p Expected volatility 70.7% Risk-free interest rate 4.5% Exercise price per share nil Expected term years 3.00 Expected dividend yield nil LTIP MTIP ESOS SAYE Options granted modified during 2004: Fair value of options granted per share 294p 427p 24p 166p Share price on date of grant per share 416p 427p 345p 300p Expected volatility 66.3% n a 69.8% 63.0% Risk-free interest rate 5.0% n a 4.4% 4.7% Exercise price per share nil nil 266p 270p Expected term years 3.00 1.75 1.17 4.18 Expected dividend yield nil nil nil nil 2005 2004 The total expense recognised in respect of share-based payments was as follows: m m Long-Term Incentive Plan 0.6 0.1 Mid-Term Incentive Plan 0.1 0.1 Executive Option Scheme 0.2 0.2 Total expense recognised in respect of share-based payments 0.9 0.4 63.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Guarantees of borrowings for the Company as at 31 December 2005 amounted to 73.8m 2004: 61.6m and guarantees under property leases of discontinued operations amounted to 4.5m 2004: nil.
The Company has also provided guarantees to its subsidiary companies where appropriate.
In addition the Company has, on behalf of its subsidiaries, given guarantees to precious metals consignors amounting to 228.5m 2004: 185.6m, representing all of the value of precious metals held by its subsidiaries on consignment terms as at 31 December 2005.
Further details of these consignment arrangements are given in note 27.
Cookson has extensive international operations and several of its subsidiaries are parties to legal proceedings, certain of which are insured claims arising in the ordinary course of the operations of the company involved.
While the outcome of litigation can never be predicted with certainty, having regard to legal advice received and the insurance arrangements of the Company and its subsidiaries, the Directors believe that none of these matters will, either individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition or results of operations.
Cookson Group plc { 108 } Annual Report 2005
