793529 2030 3 6 05 10:42 Page 82 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Basis of Consolidated Financial Statements Statutory financial information The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and in conformity with UK GAAP, which differ in certain material respects from US GAAP see note 36.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements are stated in pounds sterling, the currency of the country in which the Company is incorporated.
The translation into US dollars of the Consolidated Financial Statements as of, and for the financial year ended, 31 March 2005, is for convenience only and has been made at the Noon Buying Rate for cable transfers as announced by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for customs purposes on 31 March 2005.
This translation should not be construed as a representation that the sterling amounts actually represented have been, or could be, converted into dollars at this or any other rate.
Accounting policies The Groups material accounting policies are described below.
For a discussion on the Groups critical accounting estimates see Operating and Financial Review and Prospects Critical Accounting Estimates elsewhere in this Annual Report.
Accounting convention The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards of the United Kingdom Accounting Standards Board and pronouncements of its Urgent Issues Task Force.
Basis of consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the Company, its subsidiary undertakings and its share of the results of associated undertakings for financial statements made up to 31 March 2005.
A listing of the Companys principal subsidiary undertakings and associated undertakings is given in note 34.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rates ruling on the dates of those transactions, adjusted for the effects of any hedging arrangements.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated into sterling at year end rates.
The results of international subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associated undertakings are translated into sterling at average rates of exchange.
The adjustment to year end rates is taken to reserves.
Exchange differences, which arise on the retranslation of international subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associated undertakings balance sheets at the beginning of the year, and equity additions and withdrawals during the financial year, are dealt with as a movement in reserves.
Other translation differences are dealt with in the profit and loss account.
Turnover Group turnover comprises turnover of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings and excludes sales taxes, discounts and sales between Group companies.
Total Group turnover comprises Group turnover plus the Groups share of the turnover of its associated undertakings and joint ventures.
Turnover from mobile telecommunications comprises amounts charged to customers in respect of monthly access charges, airtime usage, messaging, the provision of other mobile telecommunications services, including data services and information provision, fees for connecting customers to a mobile network, revenue from the sale of equipment, including handsets and revenue arising from agreements entered into with Partner Networks.
Access charges and airtime used by contract customers are invoiced and recorded as part of a periodic billing cycle and recognised as turnover over the related access period, with unbilled turnover resulting from services already provided from the billing cycle date to the end of each period accrued and unearned turnover from services provided in periods after each accounting period deferred.
Revenue from the sale of prepaid credit is deferred until such time as the customer uses the airtime, or the credit expires.
Other turnover from mobile telecommunications primarily comprises equipment sales, which are recognised upon delivery to customers, and customer connection revenue.
Customer connection revenue is recognised together with the related equipment revenue to the extent that the aggregate equipment and connection revenue does not exceed the fair value of the equipment delivered to the customer.
Any customer connection revenue not recognised together with related equipment revenue is deferred and recognised over the period in which services are expected to be provided to the customer.
Revenue from data services and information provision is recognised when the Group has performed the related service and, depending on the nature of the service, is recognised either at the gross amount billed to the customer or the amount receivable by the Group as commission for facilitating the service.
Turnover from other businesses primarily comprises amounts charged to customers of the Groups xed line businesses, mainly in respect of access charges and line usage, invoiced and recorded as part of a periodic billing cycle.
82 | Financials 793529 2030 3 6 05 10:42 Page 83 Derivative financial instruments Transactions in derivative financial instruments are undertaken for risk management purposes only.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk.
To the extent that such instruments are matched against an underlying asset or liability, they are accounted for using hedge accounting.
Gains or losses on interest rate instruments are matched against the corresponding interest charge or interest receivable in the profit and loss account over the life of the instrument.
For foreign exchange instruments, gains or losses and premiums or discounts are matched to the underlying transactions being hedged.
Termination payments made or received in respect of derivative financial instruments held for hedging purposes are spread over the life of the underlying exposure where the underlying exposure continues to exist.
Where the underlying exposure ceases to exist, termination payments are taken to the profit and loss account.
Pensions Costs relating to dened benefit plans, which are subject to periodic valuations calculated by professionally qualied actuaries, are charged against profits, within staff costs so that the expected costs of providing pensions are recognised during the period in which benefit is derived from the employees services.
The costs of the various pension schemes may vary from the funding, dependent upon actuarial advice, with any difference between pension cost and funding being treated as a provision or prepayment.
Dened contribution pension costs charged to the profit and loss account represent contributions payable in respect of the period.
Research and development and advertising costs Expenditure on research and development and advertising is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Goodwill Goodwill is calculated as the surplus of fair value of consideration over fair value attributed to the identiable net assets and liabilities excluding goodwill of subsidiary, joint venture and associated undertakings acquired.
For acquisitions made after the financial year ended 31 March 1998, goodwill is capitalised and held as a foreign currency denominated asset, where applicable.
Goodwill is amortised on a straight line basis over its estimated useful economic life.
For acquired network businesses, whose operations are governed by xed term licences, the amortisation period is determined primarily by reference to the unexpired licence period and the conditions for licence renewal.
The amortisation periods range between 3 and 20 years, with the exception of the goodwill arising on the formation of Verizon Wireless and the acquisition of interests in Vodafone Japan.
The goodwill arising on the formation of Verizon Wireless is amortised over 25 years as the Group has assessed the renewal of Verizon Wireless licences as perfunctory and as such believes a useful economic life for the acquired business of greater than 20 years is appropriate.
During the 2005 financial year, as a result of the acquisition of the minority stakes in Vodafone Japan as described in Business Overview History and Development of the Company, the Group reviewed the amortisation period for goodwill arising on the acquisition of interests in Vodafone Japan, including acquisitions prior to 31 March 2004.
The Group concluded that although licences in Japan are issued for a five year term with a presumption of renewal where there is a continuing need for spectrum, the licence issued is technology dependent.
Accordingly, the amortisation period for this goodwill was increased from 16 years to 21 years.
The effect of this change on the amortisation charge for the 2005 financial year is not material.
For other acquisitions, including customer bases, the amortisation period for goodwill is typically between 3 and 10 years.
For acquisitions made before 1 April 1998, when FRS 10, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, was adopted, goodwill was written off directly to reserves.
Goodwill written off directly to reserves is included in the profit and loss account when the related business is sold.
Other intangible xed assets Purchased intangible xed assets, including licence fees, are capitalised at cost.
Network licence costs are amortised over the periods of the licences.
Amortisation is charged from commencement of service of the network.
The annual charge is calculated in proportion to the capacity of the network during the start up period and on a straight line basis thereafter.
Other intangible xed assets are amortised over their expected useful economic life on a straight line basis.
Tangible xed assets Tangible xed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land.
The cost of other tangible xed assets is written off from the time they are brought into use, by equal instalments over their expected useful lives as follows: Freehold buildings 25-50 years Leasehold premises the term of the lease Equipment, xtures and ttings 3-10 years The cost of tangible xed assets includes directly attributable incremental costs incurred in their acquisition and installation.
Financials | 83 793529 2030 3 6 05 10:42 Page 84 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Investments The Consolidated Financial Statements include investments in associated undertakings using the equity method of accounting.
An associated undertaking is an entity in which the Group has a participating interest and, in the opinion of the directors, can exercise significant inuence over its operational and financial policies.
The Consolidated profit and Loss Account includes the Groups share of the operating profit or loss, exceptional items, interest income or expense and attributable taxation of those entities.
The Balance Sheet shows the Groups share of the net assets or liabilities of those entities, together with loans advanced and attributed goodwill.
The Consolidated Financial Statements include investments in joint ventures using the gross equity method of accounting.
A joint venture is an entity in which the Group has a long-term interest and exercises joint control.
Under the gross equity method, a form of the equity method of accounting, the Groups share of the aggregate gross assets and liabilities underlying the investment in the joint venture is included in the Balance Sheet and the Groups share of the turnover of the joint venture is disclosed in the Consolidated profit and Loss Account.
Other investments, held as xed assets, comprise equity shareholdings and other interests.
They are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
Dividend income is recognised upon receipt and interest when receivable.
Stocks Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value.
Trade debtors Trade debtors are accounted for at cost.
Allowances are maintained for bad and doubtful debts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of customers to make required payments.
Estimates are based on the ageing of the debt balances and historical experience.
Debtors are written off when management deems them not to be collectable.
Taxation Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences that exist at the balance sheet date and that result in an obligation to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax in the future.
The deferred tax is measured at the rate expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on the tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation of xed assets where there is no binding commitment to sell the asset.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Leases Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account in equal annual amounts over the periods of the leases.
Assets acquired under finance leases, which transfer substantially all the rights and obligations of ownership, are accounted for as though purchased outright.
The fair value of the asset at the inception of the lease is included in tangible xed assets and the capital element of the leasing commitment included in creditors.
Finance charges are calculated on an actuarial basis and are allocated over each lease to produce a constant rate of charge on the outstanding balance.
Lease obligations which are satisfied by cash and other assets deposited with third parties are set-off against those assets in the Groups balance sheet.
