Report of Independent Auditors financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Independent Auditors Report to the Members of circumstances of the Company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately Vodafone Group Plc disclosed.
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Vodafone Group Plc for the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and year ended 31 March 2005, which comprise the consolidated and Company balance explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient sheets at 31 March 2005 and 2004, the consolidated profit and loss accounts, the evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the consolidated cash ow statements, the consolidated statements of total recognised Boards Report to Shareholders on Directors Remuneration described as having been gains and losses and the movement in total equity shareholders funds for the three audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other years ended 31 March 2005 and the related notes 1 to 37.
These financial irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Boards have also audited the information in the part of the Boards Report to Shareholders on Report to Shareholders on Directors Remuneration described as having been audited.
Directors Remuneration that is described as having been audited.
Opinions Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors UK opinion As described in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Companys directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with In our opinion: applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the for the preparation of the other information contained in the Annual Report including Company and the Group at 31 March 2005 and of the loss of the Group for the the Boards Report to Shareholders on Directors Remuneration.
Our responsibility is to year then ended: and audit the financial statements and the part of the Boards Report to Shareholders on Directors Remuneration described as having been audited in accordance with relevant the financial statements and that part of the Boards Report to Shareholders on United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
Directors Remuneration described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Boards Report to US opinion Shareholders on Directors Remuneration described as having been audited have been In our opinion: properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the financial position of the Group at 31 March 2005 and 2004 and the consolidated information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law results of its operations and cash ows for each of the three years in the period regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other ended 31 March 2005 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the Companys Accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom vary in significant compliance with the nine provisions of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for respects from accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it Information relating to the nature and effect of such differences is presented in note 36 does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal to the consolidated financial statements.
control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the Directors Report and the other information contained in the Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2005 as described in the contents section, including the unaudited part of the Boards Report to Shareholders on Directors Remuneration and Deloitte & Touche LLP consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
London, England Basis of Audit Opinion 24 May 2005 We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board and with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting.
Notes: An audit does not provide assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular on whether any changes may have Our audit included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis occurred to the financial statements since first published.
These matters are the responsibility for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances but not for the of the directors but no control procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area.
purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial over financial reporting.
Accordingly, we express no such opinion.
An audit includes statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Boards Report to Shareholders on Directors Remuneration described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Financials | 137 793529 2050 3 6 05 10:42 Page 138 Information on International Financial Reporting Standards Introduction On 19 July 2002, the European Parliament adopted Regulation No.
1606 2002 requiring listed companies in the Member States of the European Union to prepare their consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS from 2005.
IFRS will apply for the first time in the Groups Annual Report for the year ending 31 March 2006.
Consequently, the Groups interim results for the six month period ending 30 September 2005 will be presented under IFRS together with restated information for the six months ended 30 September 2004 and the year ended 31 March 2005.
The Group provided an update of its adoption of IFRS on 20 January 2005 which included restated financial information for the six months ended 30 September 2004, and additional IFRS segmental information was released on 18 March 2005.
The Group currently intends to publish restated IFRS financial information for the year ended 31 March 2005 in July 2005.
These updates are available on the Companys website, www.
Basis of preparation of IFRS financial information The Groups IFRS financial information for the year ending 31 March 2006 will be prepared in accordance with the IFRS, International Accounting Standards IAS and interpretations issued by the IASB and its committees, and as interpreted by any regulatory bodies applicable to the Group, for those standards that are mandatory for EU listed companies adopting IFRS for the first time.
In addition, the Group has elected to adopt early the amendment to IAS 19, Employee Benets, issued on 16 December 2004 which allows actuarial gains and losses to be charged or credited to equity.
On 19 November 2004, the European Commission endorsed an amended version of IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement rather than the full version as previously published by the IASB.
In accordance with guidance issued by the UK Accounting Standards Board, the full version of IAS 39, as issued by the IASB, will be adopted.
Following the SECs issuance on 12 April 2005 of its final rule, First-Time Application of International Financial Reporting Standards, the Groups Annual Report for the year ending 31 March 2006 will provide one year of comparative financial information under IFRS and the opening balance sheet date for adoption of IFRS will be 1 April 2004.
IFRS 1 exemptions IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards sets out the procedures that the Group must follow when it adopts IFRS for the first time as the basis for preparing its consolidated financial statements.
The Group is required to establish its IFRS accounting policies as at 31 March 2006 and, in general, apply these retrospectively to determine the IFRS opening balance sheet at its date of transition, 1 April 2004.
This standard provides a number of optional exceptions to this general principle.
The most significant of these are set out below, together with a description in each case of the exception to be adopted by the Group.
Business combinations that occurred before the opening IFRS balance sheet date IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
The Group has elected not to apply IFRS 3 retrospectively to business combinations that took place before the date of transition.
As a result, in the opening balance sheet, goodwill arising from past business combinations remains as stated under UK GAAP at 31 March 2004.
Employee Benets actuarial gains and losses IAS 19, Employee Benets The Group has elected to recognise all cumulative actuarial gains and losses in relation to employee benefit schemes at the date of transition.
Share-based Payments IFRS 2, Share-based Payment The Group has elected to apply IFRS 2 to all relevant share-based payment transactions granted but not fully vested at 1 April 2004.
Financial Instruments IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation The Group has applied IAS 32 and IAS 39 for all periods presented and has therefore not taken advantage of the exemption in IFRS 1 that would enable the Group to only apply these standards from 1 April 2005.
Reconciliation of IFRS equity shareholders funds at opening balance sheet date The following is a summary of the effects of the differences between IFRS and UK GAAP on the Groups total equity shareholders funds at the opening balance sheet date.
Further significant differences may arise from accounting standards and pronouncements that the IASB could issue in the future and which the Group may elect to early adopt in its first IFRS accounts.
At 1 April 2004 m Total equity shareholders funds UK GAAP 111,924 Proposed dividends 728 Financial instruments 385 Dened benefit pension schemes 257 Licence fee amortisation 164 Deferred and current taxes 1,011 Share based payments 12 Other 66 Total equity shareholders funds IFRS 111,551 138 | Shareholder information 793529 2050 3 6 05 10:42 Page 139 Principal differences between IFRS and UK GAAP Measurement and Recognition The Group has identied the principal differences between IFRS and the Groups UK GAAP accounting policies, which are summarised below.
Proposed dividends IAS 10, Events after the Balance Sheet Date requires that dividends declared after the balance sheet date should not be recognised as a liability at that balance sheet date as the liability does not represent a present obligation as dened by IAS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
The final dividend declared in May 2004 in relation to the financial year ended 31 March 2004 of 728 million has been reversed in the opening balance sheet.
Financial Instruments IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement address the accounting for, and reporting of, financial instruments.
IAS 39 sets out detailed accounting requirements in relation to financial assets and liabilities.
All derivative financial instruments are accounted for at fair market value whilst other financial instruments are accounted for either at amortised cost or at fair value depending on their classication.
Subject to stringent criteria, financial assets and financial liabilities may be designated as forming hedge relationships as a result of which fair value changes are offset in the income statement or charged credited to equity depending on the nature of the hedge relationship.
Reclassication of non-equity minority interests to liabilities The primary impact of the implementation of IAS 32 is the reclassication of the $1.65 billion preferred shares issued by the Groups subsidiary, Vodafone Americas Inc. from nonequity minority interests to liabilities.
The reclassication at 1 April 2004 was 875 million.
Dividend payments by this subsidiary, which were previously reported in the Groups income statement as non-equity minority interests, have been reclassied to nancing costs.
Fair value of available for sale financial assets The Group has classied certain of its cost-based investments as available for sale financial assets as dened in IAS 39.
This classication does not reect the intentions of management in relation to these investments.
These assets are measured at fair value at each reporting date with movements in fair value taken to equity.
At 1 April 2004, a cumulative increase of 233 million in the fair value over the carrying value of these investments has been recognised.
Other adjustments Hedge accounting has been adopted for the majority of the Groups interest rate swaps and underlying capital market debt, thereby reducing potential volatility in the income statement.
Certain derivative financial instruments used to manage interest rate and foreign exchange exposures are not held in hedge relationships.
However, these tend to be relatively short term in nature, causing limited income statement volatility.
Dened benefit pension schemes The Group currently applies the provisions of SSAP 24 under UK GAAP and provides detailed disclosure under FRS 17 in accounting for pensions and other post-employment benets.
The Group has elected to adopt early the amendment to IAS 19, Employee Benets issued by the IASB on 16 December 2004 which allows all actuarial gains and losses to be charged or credited to equity.
The Groups opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 April 2004 reects the assets and liabilities of the Groups dened benefit schemes totalling a net liability of 154 million.
This amount represents less than 0.2% of the Groups market capitalisation at 31 March 2004.
The transitional adjustment of 257 million to opening reserves comprises the reversal of entries in relation to UK GAAP accounting under SSAP 24 less the recognition of the net liabilities of the Groups and associated undertakings dened benefit schemes.
Goodwill and acquired intangible asset amortisation IAS 38, Intangible Assets requires that goodwill is not amortised.
Instead it is subject to an annual impairment review.
As the Group has elected not to apply IFRS 3 retrospectively to business combinations prior to the opening balance sheet date under IFRS, the UK GAAP goodwill balance at 31 March 2004 96,931 million has been included in the opening IFRS consolidated balance sheet and is no longer amortised.
Licence fee amortisation Under IAS 38, capitalised payments for mobile licences are amortised on a straight line basis over their useful economic life.
Amortisation is charged from the commencement of service of the network.
Under UK GAAP, the Groups policy is to amortise such costs in proportion to the capacity of the network during the start up period and then on a straightline basis thereafter.
Shareholder information | 139 793529 2050 3 6 05 10:42 Page 140 Information on International Financial Reporting Standards continued Deferred and Current Taxes The scope of IAS 12, Income Taxes is wider than the corresponding UK GAAP standards, and requires deferred tax to be provided on all temporary differences rather than just timing differences under UK GAAP.
As a result, the Groups IFRS opening balance sheet at 1 April 2004 includes an additional deferred tax liability of 1,801 million in respect of the differences between the carrying value and tax written down value of the Groups investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures.
This comprises 1.3 billion in respect of differences that arose when US investments were acquired and 0.5 billion in respect of undistributed earnings of certain associated undertakings and joint ventures, principally Vodafone Italy.
UK GAAP does not permit deferred tax to be provided on the undistributed earnings of the Groups associated undertakings and joint ventures until there is a binding obligation to distribute those earnings.
IAS 12 also requires deferred tax to be provided in respect of the Groups liabilities under its post employment benefit arrangements and on other employee benets such as share and share option schemes.
Share-based Payments IFRS 2, Share-based Payment requires that an expense for equity instruments granted be recognised in the financial statements based on their fair value at the date of grant.
This expense, which is primarily in relation to employee option and performance share schemes, is recognised over the vesting period of the scheme.
While IFRS 2 allows the measurement of this expense to be calculated only on options granted after 7 November 2002, the Group has applied IFRS 2 to all instruments granted but not fully vested as at 1 April 2004.
The Group has adopted the binomial model for the purposes of computing fair value under IFRS.
Principal presentational differences Scope of consolidation IAS 31, Interests in Joint Ventures defines a jointly controlled entity as an entity where unanimous consent over the strategic financial and operating decisions is required between the parties sharing control.
Control is dened as the power to govern the financial and operating decisions of an entity so as to obtain economic benefit from it.
The Group has reviewed the classication of its investments and concluded that the Groups 76.8% interest in Vodafone Italy, currently classied as a subsidiary undertaking under UK GAAP, should be accounted for as a joint venture under IFRS.
In addition, the Groups interests in South Africa, Poland, Romania, Kenya and Fiji, which are currently classied as associated undertakings under UK GAAP, have been classied as joint ventures under IFRS as a result of the contractual rights held by the Group.
The Group has adopted proportionate consolidation as the method of accounting for these six entities.
Under UK GAAP, the revenue, operating profit, net nancing costs and taxation of Vodafone Italy are consolidated in full in the income statement with a corresponding allocation to minority interest.
Under proportionate consolidation, the Group recognises its share of all income statement lines with no allocation to minority interest.
There is no effect on the result for a financial period from this adjustment.
Under UK GAAP, the Groups interests in South Africa, Poland, Romania, Kenya and Fiji are accounted for under the equity method, with the Groups share of operating profit, interest and tax being recognised separately in the consolidated income statement.
Under proportionate consolidation, the Group recognises its share of all income statement lines.
Under UK GAAP, the Group fully consolidates the cash ows of Vodafone Italy, but does not consolidate the cash ows of its associated undertakings.
The IFRS consolidated cash ow statements reect the Groups share of cash ows relating to its joint ventures on a line by line basis, with a corresponding recognition of the Groups share of net debt for each of the proportionately consolidated entities.
Associated undertakings taxation Under IFRS, in accordance with IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, Tax on loss profit on ordinary activities on the face of the consolidated income statement comprises the tax charge of the Company, its subsidiaries and its share of the tax charge of joint ventures.
The Groups share of its associated undertakings tax charges is shown as part of Share of result in associated undertakings rather than being disclosed as part of the tax charge under UK GAAP.
In respect of the Verizon Wireless partnership, the line Share of result in associated undertakings includes the Groups share of pre-tax partnership income and the Groups share of the post-tax income attributable to corporate entities as determined for US corporate income tax purposes held by the partnership.
The tax attributable to the Groups share of allocable partnership income is included as part of Tax on loss profit on ordinary activities on the consolidated income statement.
This treatment reects the fact that tax on allocable partnership income is, for US corporate income tax purposes, a liability of the partners and not the partnership.
