2 Adjusted earnings per share is calculated before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
3 Certain financial information is presented on a proportionate basis.
Proportionate presentation is not a measure recognised under UK GAAP and is not intended to replace the consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
However, since significant entities in which the Group has an interest are not consolidated, proportionate information is provided as supplemental data to facilitate a more detailed understanding and assessment of the consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
Proportionate financial information is not presented in the Groups Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2005.
UK GAAP requires consolidation of entities controlled by the Group and the equity method of accounting for entities in which the Group has significant influence but not a controlling interest.
Proportionate presentation is a pro rata consolidation, which reflects the Groups share of turnover and expenses in both its consolidated and unconsolidated entities.
Proportionate results are calculated by multiplying the Groups ownership interest in each entity by each entitys results.
Proportionate information includes results from the Groups equity accounted investments and investments held at cost.
The Group does not have control over the turnover, expenses or cash flows of these investments and is only entitled to cash from dividends received from these entities.
The Group does not own the underlying assets of these investments.
Group proportionate turnover is stated net of intercompany turnover.
Proportionate EBITDA is defined as operating profit before exceptional items and depreciation and amortisation of subsidiary undertakings, associated undertakings and investments, proportionate to equity stakes.
Proportionate EBITDA represents the Groups ownership interests in the respective entities EBITDA.
As such, proportionate EBITDA does not represent EBITDA available to the Group.
Summary Financial Information 35 | Additional Information Vodafone shares under the Dividend Reinvestment Plan Financial calendar 2005 06 see below.
Annual General Meeting see below 26 July 2005 If a holder of ordinary shares does decide to receive cash dividends, it is recommended that these are paid directly to Interim results announcement 15 November 2005 the shareholders bank or building society account via Preliminary announcement 30 May 2006 BACS EFTS.
This avoids the risk of cheques being lost in the of full year results post and means the dividend will be in that shareholders account on the dividend payment date.
The shareholder will be sent a tax voucher confirming the amount of dividend and Listings the account into which it has been paid.
Ordinary shares of Vodafone Group Plc are traded on the Please contact our Registrars for further details.
London Stock Exchange and, in the form of American Holders of ADSs can: Depositary Shares ADSs, on the New York Stock have cash dividends paid direct to a bank account: or Exchange.
have cash dividends paid by cheque: or ADSs, each representing ten ordinary shares, are traded elect to have the dividends reinvested to purchase on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol VOD.
additional Vodafone ADSs see below for contact details.
The ADSs are evidenced by American Depositary Receipts ADRs.
Dividends and ADS holders ADS holders are not members of the Company but may instruct The Bank of New York on the exercise of voting Holders of ADRs evidencing ADSs are generally eligible for all rights relative to the number of ordinary shares represented dividends or other entitlements attaching to the underlying by their ADRs.
shares of Vodafone Group Plc and receive cash dividends in US dollars.
Report to ADS holders The US and UK previously agreed a Double Taxation Convention which entered into force in 1980 the Old ADS holders receive the Annual Review & Summary Treaty and subsequently agreed a replacement Double Financial Statement issued to holders of ordinary shares.
Taxation Convention which entered into force in March 2003 A copy of the Annual Report is available on the Companys the New Treaty.
The New Treaty has been effective in website or may be obtained by writing to the Investor respect of taxes withheld at source for amounts paid or Relations Department, Vodafone Group Plc, Vodafone House, credited on or after 1 May 2003.
Other provisions of the The Connection, Newbury, Berkshire RG14 2FN, England.
New Treaty, however, took effect for UK purposes for Vodafone Group Plc will file with the Securities and Exchange individuals on 6 April 2003 1 April 2003 for UK companies Commission in the US its Annual Report on Form 20-F and took effect, for US purposes, on 1 January 2004. which corresponds to the 10-K for a US corporation and The rules of the Old Treaty remained applicable until these other information as required.
However, a taxpayer can elect to have the Old Treaty in its entirety for a period of twelve months after Dividends the applicable effective dates of the New Treaty.
Set out below is information relevant to the final dividend for Under the New Treaty, a US holder is not entitled to a tax the financial year ended 31 March 2005. credit from the UK Inland Revenue.
However, a dividend received by a US holder is generally not subject to any Ex-dividend date 1 June 2005 withholding tax by the UK.
Record date 3 June 2005 Under the Old Treaty, a US holder other than corporations who together with associated corporations hold more than DRIP election date 15 July 2005 10% of the voting shares of Vodafone Group Plc was in Dividend payment date 5 August 2005 principle entitled to receive a tax credit from the UK Inland Revenue.
However, as the required witholding tax was equal Payment date for both ordinary shares and ADSs.
to the UK tax credit, no credit was repayable.
A US holder is subject to federal income tax on the gross amount of any dividend paid by the Company out of its Dividend payment methods current or accumulated earnings and profits.
Dividends paid Holders of ordinary shares can: to a non-corporate US holder in tax years beginning before 1 January 2009 that constitute qualified dividend income have cash dividends paid direct to a bank or building will be taxable at a maximum rate of 15%, provided that society account: or the holder meets certain holding period requirements.
have cash dividends paid in the form of a cheque: or Dividends paid by the Company will generally be qualified elect to use the cash dividends to purchase more dividend income.
36 Shareholder Information | Dividends and any related UK tax credit available are income Telephone share dealing from sources outside the United States and are generally A telephone share dealing service with the Company's passive income or financial services income to the holder Registrars is available for holders of ordinary shares.
for Federal income tax purposes and these types of income The service is available from 8.00 am to 4.30 pm, Monday are treated separately for the purposes of computing any to Friday, excluding bank holidays on telephone number allowable foreign tax credit.
ADS holders unsure of their tax 44 0 870 703 0084. position should consult their independent tax adviser.
Detailed terms and conditions are available on request by calling the above number.
Dividend reinvestment The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan which Postal share dealing allows holders of ordinary shares who choose to participate to use their cash dividends to acquire additional shares in A postal share dealing service is available for holders of the Company.
These are purchased on their behalf by the ordinary shares with 1,000 shares or less who want either to Plan Administrator through a low cost dealing arrangement.
increase their holding or sell their entire holding.
Further details can be obtained from the Plan Administrator Further information about this service can be obtained from on 44 0 870 702 0198. the Company's Registrars on 44 0 870 702 0198.
For ADS holders, The Bank of New York maintains a Global BuyDIRECT Plan for the Company, which is a direct purchase Online shareholder services and sale plan for depositary receipts, with a dividend www.
For additional information, please call toll-free on 1 800 233 5601, or write to The Bank of New Register to receive electronic shareholder communications.
York, Shareholder Relations Department, Global BuyDIRECT, Benefits to shareholders and the Company include faster P. O.
receipt of communications such as annual reports and cost For calls from outside the US, call 1 610 382-7836. and time savings for Vodafone.
Electronic shareholder Please note that this number is not toll-free.
communications are also more environmentally friendly.
View a live webcast of the AGM of the Company on Registrars and transfer office 26 July 2005 and a recording will be available to view after that date.
The Companys ordinary share register is maintained by Computershare Investor Services PLC, P. O.
Box 82, View and or download the Annual Report and the The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH England.
Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2005.
Check the current share price.
Fax: 44 0 870 703 6101 or by Calculate dividend payments.
co. uk Use interactive tools to calculate the value of share Holders of ordinary shares who are resident in Ireland can holdings, look up the historic price on a particular contact Computershare Investor Services Ireland Limited, date and chart Vodafone ordinary share price changes P. O.
Telephone: 353 0 818 300 999 or Fax: 353 0 1 216 3151 or by Shareholders and other interested parties can also receive Email: web.
ie Company press releases, including London Stock Exchange announcements, by registering for Vodafone News via the Any queries about the administration of holdings of ordinary Companys web site at www.
com news shares, such as change of address, change in ownership or dividend payments, should be directed to the Companys Registering for Vodafone News will enable users to: Registrars at the relevant address or telephone number.
be alerted by free SMS as soon as news breaks: Holders of ordinary shares may also check details of their access the latest news direct from your mobile: and shareholding, subject to passing an identity check, on the Registrars web site at www.
com have news automatically e-mailed to them.
The Depositary Bank for the Companys ADR programme is The Bank of New York, Investor Relations Dept, P. O.
Box Annual General Meeting 11258, Church St. Station, New York NY 10286-1258 USA.
The 21st AGM of the Company will be held at the Queen Telephone: 1 800 233 5601 Toll free.
Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, ADS holders should address any queries or instructions London SW1 on 26 July 2005 at 11.00 am.
regarding their holdings to The Bank of New York at the above The Notice of Meeting, together with details of the business address or telephone number.
ADS holders can also, subject to passing an identity check, view their account balances and to be conducted at the Meeting, is being circulated to transaction history, sell shares and request certificates from shareholders with this Annual Review & Summary Financial their Global BuyDIRECT Plan at www.
com Statement and can be viewed at the Companys website.
Shareholder Information 37 | Additional Information continued The AGM will be transmitted via a live webcast and can be ShareGift viewed at the Companys website www.
com agm The Company supports ShareGift, the charity share donation on the day of the meeting and a recording will be available scheme administered by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation to review after that date.
To find out more about the AGM and how to view the Through ShareGift, shareholders who have only a very small webcast, visit www.
com agm number of shares which might be considered uneconomic to sell are able to donate them to charity.
Further details Holders of ordinary shares at 31 March 2005 about ShareGift can be obtained from its website at and Geographical analysis of shareholders www.
org or at The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, 46 Grosvenor Street, London W1K 3HN.
Over 98% of the Companys ordinary shares are held by Telephone: 44 0 20 7337 0501. institutional investors or corporate bodies.
As at 23 May 2005, 12.5% of the Companys ordinary shares were held in the form of ADSs.
The Unclaimed Assets Register At 31 March 2005, approximately 51.53% of the Companys The Company participates in the Unclaimed Assets Register, shares were held in the UK, 32.17% in North America, which provides a search facility for financial assets which 13.91% in Europe excluding the UK and 2.39% in the Rest may have been forgotten and which donates a proportion of of the World.
its public search fees to a group of three UK charities Age Concern, NSPCC and Scope.
For further information, contact The Unclaimed Assets Register, Garden Floor, Bain Consolidation of ordinary share accounts House, 16 Connaught Place, London W2 2ES telephone: Shareholders whose total registered shareholding is 44 0 870 241 1713, or visit its website at www.
co. uk represented by more than one account, evidenced by the receipt of duplicate copies of communications from the Registered Office Company to shareholders, and who wish to have their holdings consolidated should send an appropriate letter of The registered office of the Company is at Vodafone House, instruction to the Companys Registrars.
The Connection, Newbury, Berkshire RG14 2FN, England Telephone.
Share Price History ordinary shares Upon flotation of the Company on 11 October 1988 the ordinary shares were valued at 170p each.
On 16 September 1991, when the Company was finally demerged, for UK taxpayers the base cost of Racal Electronics Plc shares was apportioned between the Company and Racal Electronics Plc for Capital Gains Tax purposes in the ratio of 80.036% and 19.964% respectively.
Opening share prices on 16 September 1991 were 332p for each Vodafone share and 223p for each Racal Electronics Plc share.
On 21 July 1994, the Company effected a bonus issue of two new shares for every one then held and on 30 September 1999 it effected a bonus issue of four new shares for every one held at that date.
The flotation and demerger share prices, therefore, may be restated as 11.333p and 22.133p, respectively.
The share price on 23 May 2005 was 146.5p.
