793529 2060 3 6 05 10:42 Page 141 Investor Information Dividend reinvestment Contents The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan which allows holders of ordinary Page shares who choose to participate to use their cash dividends to acquire additional Financial Calendar for the 2006 financial year 141 shares in the Company.
These are purchased on their behalf by the Plan Administrator Dividends 141 through a low cost dealing arrangement.
Further details can be obtained from the Plan Telephone share dealing 141 Administrator on 44 0 870 702 0198.
Postal share dealing 141 Registrars and transfer ofce 141 For ADS holders, The Bank of New York maintains a Global BuyDIRECT Plan for the Online Shareholder Services 142 Company, which is a direct purchase and sale plan for depositary receipts, with a Annual General Meeting 142 dividend reinvestment facility.
For additional information, please call toll-free from ShareGift 142 within the US on 1 800 233 5601, or write to: The Unclaimed Assets Register 142 The Bank of New York Share Price History 142 Shareholder Relations Department Markets 143 Global BuyDIRECT Memorandum and Articles of Association and Applicable English Law 143 P. O.
Box 1958 Documents on Display 146 Newark Material Contracts 146 New Jersey 07101-1958 Exchange Controls 146 USA Taxation 146 Contact Details 148 For calls from outside the US, call 1 610 382 7836.
Please note that this number is not toll-free.
Financial calendar for the 2006 financial year Telephone share dealing Annual General Meeting see below 26 July 2005 A telephone share dealing service with the Companys Registrars is available for Interim Results announcement 15 November 2005 holders of ordinary shares.
The service is available from 8.00 am to 4.30 pm, Monday Preliminary announcement of full year results 30 May 2006 to Friday, excluding bank holidays, on telephone number 44 0 870 703 0084.
Dividends Detailed terms and conditions are available on request by calling the above number.
Full details on the dividend amount per share or ADS can be found on page 45.
Set out below is information relevant to the final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2005.
Postal share dealing A postal share dealing service is available for holders of ordinary shares with 1,000 Ex-dividend date 1 June 2005 shares or fewer who want to either increase their holding or sell their entire holding.
Record date 3 June 2005 DRIP election date 15 July 2005 Further information about this service can be obtained from the Companys Registrars 1 Dividend payment date 5 August 2005 on 44 0 870 702 0198.
1 Payment date for both ordinary shares and ADSs.
Registrars and transfer ofce Dividend Payment Methods The Companys ordinary share register is maintained by: Holders of ordinary shares can: Computershare Investor Services PLC have cash dividends paid direct to a bank or building society account: or P. O.
Box 82 have cash dividends paid in the form of a cheque: or The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 7NH elect to use the cash dividends to purchase more Vodafone shares under the England Dividend Reinvestment Plan see below.
Telephone: 44 0 870 702 0198 Fax: 44 0 870 703 6101 If a holder of ordinary shares does decide to receive cash dividends, it is recommended Email: web.
co. uk that these are paid directly to the shareholders bank or building society account via BACS or EFTS.
This avoids the risk of cheques being lost in the post and means the Holders of ordinary shares resident in Ireland should contact: dividend will be in the shareholders account on the dividend payment date.
The Computershare Investor Services Ireland Limited shareholder will be sent a tax voucher conrming the amount of dividend and the P. O.
Box 9742 account into which it has been paid.
Dublin 18 Please contact the Companys Registrars for further details.
ie have cash dividends paid direct to a bank account: or have cash dividends paid by cheque: or elect to have the dividends reinvested to purchase additional Vodafone ADSs see below for contact details.
Shareholder information | 141 793529 2060 3 6 05 10:42 Page 142 Investor Information continued Any queries about the administration of holdings of ordinary shares, such as change of The AGM will be transmitted via a live webcast and can be viewed at the Companys address, change of ownership or dividend payments, should be directed to the website www.
com agm on the day of the meeting and a recording will be Companys Registrars at the relevant address or telephone number immediately above.
available to review after that date.
Holders of ordinary shares may also check details of their shareholding, subject to To nd out more about the AGM and how to view the webcast, visit passing an identity check, on the Registrars website at www.
The Depositary Bank for the Companys ADR programme is: ShareGift The Bank of New York The Company supports ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme administered by Investor Relations Dept, P. O.
Box 11258 The Orr Mackintosh Foundation registered charity number 1052686.
Through Church St. Station ShareGift, shareholders who have only a very small number of shares which might be New York, NY 10286-1258 considered uneconomic to sell are able to donate them to charity.
Donated shares are USA aggregated and sold by ShareGift, the proceeds being passed on to a wide range of UK Telephone: 1 800 233 5601 Toll free charities.
Donating shares to charity gives rise neither to a gain nor a loss for UK Capital Gains purposes and UK taxpayers may also be able to claim income tax relief ADS holders should address any queries or instructions regarding their holdings to The on the value of the donation.
Bank of New York at the above address or telephone number.
ADS holders can also, subject to passing an identity check, view their account balances and transaction ShareGift transfer forms specically for the Companys shareholders are available from history, sell shares and request certicates from their Global BuyDIRECT Plan at the Companys Registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC and, even if the share www.
com certicate has been lost or destroyed, the gift can be completed.
The service is generally free.
However, there may be an indemnity charge for a lost or destroyed Online Shareholder Services share certicate where the value of the shares exceeds 100.
com investor ShareGift can be obtained from its website at www.
org or at The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, 46 Grosvenor Street, London W1K 3HN telephone: Register to receive electronic shareholder communications.
Benets to 44 0 20 7337 0501. shareholders and the Company include faster receipt of communications such as annual reports, and cost and time savings for Vodafone.
Electronic shareholder The Unclaimed Assets Register communications are also more environmentally friendly.
The Company participates in the Unclaimed Assets Register, which provides a search View a live webcast of the AGM of the Company on 26 July 2005 and a recording facility for financial assets which may have been forgotten and which donates a will be available to review after that date.
proportion of its public search fees to a group of three UK charities Age Concern, NSPCC and Scope.
For further information, contact The Unclaimed Assets Register, View and or download the Annual Report and the Annual Review & Summary Garden Floor, Bain House, 16 Connaught Place, London W2 2ES telephone: Financial Statement 2005.
Check the current share price.
Share Price History Calculate dividend payments.
Upon otation of the Company on 11 October 1988, the ordinary shares were valued at Use interactive tools to calculate the value of shareholdings, look up the historic 170 pence each.
On 16 September 1991, when the Company was nally demerged, price on a particular date and chart Vodafone ordinary share price changes against for UK taxpayers the base cost of Racal Electronics Plc shares was apportioned indices.
between the Company and Racal Electronics Plc for Capital Gains Tax purposes in the Shareholders and other interested parties can also receive Company press releases, ratio of 80.036% and 19.964% respectively.
Opening share prices on 16 September including London Stock Exchange announcements, by registering for Vodafone News 1991 were 332 pence for each Vodafone share and 223 pence for each Racal share.
via the Companys website at www.
On 21 July 1994, the Company effected a bonus issue of two new shares for every Registering for Vodafone News will enable users to: one then held and, on 30 September 1999, it effected a bonus issue of four new shares for every one held at that date.
The otation and demerger share prices, be alerted by free SMS as soon as news breaks: therefore, may be restated as 11.333 pence and 22.133 pence, respectively.
access the latest news from their mobile: and The share price at 31 March 2005 was 140.50 pence 31 March 2004: have news automatically e-mailed to them.
The share price on 23 May 2005 was 146.50 pence.
The following tables set out, for the periods indicated, i the reported high and low Annual General Meeting middle market quotations of ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange, ii the The twenty first AGM of the Company will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference reported high and low sales prices of ordinary shares on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1 on 26 July 2005 at 11.00 a. m. and iii the reported high and low sales prices of ADSs on the NYSE.
The Notice of Meeting, together with details of the business to be conducted at the The Companys ordinary shares were traded on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange from Meeting, is being circulated to shareholders with this Annual Report or the Annual 3 April 2000 until 23 March 2004 and, therefore, information has not been provided Review & Summary Financial Statement and can be viewed at the Companys website for periods outside these dates.
142 | Shareholder information 793529 2060 3 6 05 10:42 Page 143 ADS holders are not members of the Company but may instruct The Bank of New York Five year data on an annual basis on the exercise of voting rights relative to the number of ordinary shares represented London Stock Frankfurt Stock Exchange Exchange NYSE by their ADSs.
See Memorandum and Articles of Association and Applicable English Pounds per Euros per Dollars Law Rights attaching to the Companys shares Voting rights below.
Fourth Quarter 1.50 1.24 2.22 1.88 27.88 22.81 2004 2005 Memorandum and Articles of Association and First Quarter 1.44 1.21 25.90 21.87 Applicable English law Second Quarter 1.34 1.14 24.21 20.83 The following description summarises certain provisions of the Companys Third Quarter 1.49 1.32 28.54 24.06 Memorandum and Articles of Association and applicable English law.
This summary is Fourth Quarter 1.46 1.35 27.53 25.60 qualied in its entirety by reference to the Companies Act 1985 of Great Britain the 2005 2006 Companies Act, as amended, and the Companys Memorandum and Articles of 1 First Quarter 1.47 1.35 26.91 25.43 Association.
Information on where shareholders can obtain copies of the Memorandum Note: and Articles of Association is provided under Documents on Display.
1 covering period up to 23 May 2005.
All of the Companys ordinary shares are fully paid.
Accordingly, no further contribution Six month data on a monthly basis of capital may be required by the Company from the holders of such shares.
London Stock Exchange NYSE English law species that any alteration to the Articles of Association must be approved Pounds per Dollars by a special resolution of the shareholders.
ordinary share per ADS Financial Year High Low High Low The Companys Objects November 2004 1.49 1.37 27.55 25.45 The Company is a public limited company under the laws of England and Wales.
The December 2004 1.48 1.37 28.54 26.62 Company is registered in England and Wales under the name Vodafone Group Public January 2005 1.46 1.37 27.53 25.68 Limited Company, with the registration number 1833679.
The Companys objects are February 2005 1.42 1.35 26.89 25.60 set out in the fourth clause of its Memorandum of Association and cover a wide range March 2005 1.44 1.36 27.50 26.23 of activities, including to carry on the business of a holding company, to carry on April 2005 1.43 1.35 26.91 25.70 1 business as dealers in, operators, manufacturers, repairers, designers, developers, May 2005 1.47 1.37 26.90 25.43 importers and exporters of electronic, electrical, mechanical and aeronautical Notes: equipment of all types as well as to carry on all other businesses necessary to attain 1 High and low share prices for May 2004 only reported until 23 May 2005. the Companys objectives.
The Memorandum of Association grants the Company a The current authorised share capital comprises 78,000,000,000 ordinary shares of broad range of powers to effect its objects.
$0.10 each and 50,000 7% cumulative xed rate shares of 1.00 each.
Directors Markets The Companys Articles of Association provide for a board of directors, consisting of not Ordinary shares of Vodafone Group Plc are traded on the London Stock Exchange and, fewer than three directors, who shall manage the business and affairs of the Company.
in the form of ADSs, on the New York Stock Exchange.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, a director cannot vote in respect of any ADSs, each representing ten ordinary shares, are traded on the New York Stock proposal in which the director, or any person connected with the director, has a Exchange under the symbol VOD.
The ADSs are evidenced by ADRs issued by The material interest other than by virtue of the directors interest in the Companys shares Bank of New York, as Depositary, under a Deposit Agreement, dated as of 12 October or other securities.
However, this restriction on voting does not apply to resolutions 1988, as amended and restated as of 26 December 1989, as further amended and a giving the director or a third party any guarantee, security or indemnity in respect of restated as of 16 September 1991 and as further amended and restated as of 30 June obligations or liabilities incurred at the request of or for the benefit of the Company, 1999, between the Company, the Depositary and the holders from time to time of b giving any guarantee, security or indemnity to the director or a third party in respect ADRs issued thereunder.
Shareholder information | 143 793529 2060 3 6 05 10:42 Page 144 Investor Information continued of obligations of the Company for which the director has assumed responsibility under If a dividend has not been claimed for one year after the later of the resolution passed at an indemnity or guarantee, c relating to an offer of securities of the Company in which a general meeting declaring that dividend or the resolution of the directors providing for the director participates as a holder of shares or other securities or in the underwriting payment of that dividend, the directors may invest the dividend or use it in some other of such shares or securities, d concerning any other company in which the director way for the benefit of the Company until the dividend is claimed.
If the dividend remains together with any connected person is a shareholder or an officer or is otherwise unclaimed for 12 years after the relevant resolution either declaring that dividend or interested, provided that the director together with any connected person is not providing for payment of that dividend, it will be forfeited and belong to the Company.
interested in 1% or more of any class of the companys equity share capital or the Voting rights voting rights available to its shareholders, e relating to the arrangement of any The Companys Articles of Association provide that voting on Substantive Resolutions employee benefit in which the director will share equally with other employees and i. e. any resolution which is not a Procedural Resolution at a general meeting shall be f relating to any insurance that the Company purchases or renews for its directors or decided on a poll.
On a poll, each shareholder who is entitled to vote and is present in any group of people, including directors.
person or by proxy has one vote for every share held.
Procedural Resolutions such as The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow a resolution to adjourn a General Meeting or a resolution on the choice of Chairman of money, subject to the limitation that the aggregate amount of all liabilities and a General Meeting shall be decided on a show of hands, where each shareholder who obligations of the Group outstanding at any time shall not exceed an amount equal to is present at the meeting has one vote regardless of the number of shares held, unless 1.5 times the aggregate of the Groups share capital and reserves calculated in the a poll is demanded.
In addition, the Articles of Association allow persons appointed as manner prescribed in the Articles of Association, unless sanctioned by an ordinary proxies of shareholders entitled to vote at general meetings to vote on a show of resolution of the Companys shareholders.
hands, as well as to vote on a poll and attend and speak at general meetings.
Holders of the Companys ordinary shares do not have cumulative voting rights.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, a third of all the directors retire at each AGM.
The specic retiring directors are those last elected or re-elected Under English law, two shareholders present in person constitute a quorum for at or before the AGM held in the third calendar year before the current year.
This year, purposes of a general meeting, unless a companys articles of association specify the Company reviewed its policy regarding the retirement and re-election of directors otherwise.
The Companys Articles of Association do not specify otherwise, except that and, although it is not intended to amend the Companys Articles in this regard, the the shareholders do not need to be present in person, and may instead be present by Board has decided, in the interests of good corporate governance, that all the directors proxy, to constitute a quorum.
should offer themselves for re-election annually.
Accordingly, all the directors will Under English law, shareholders of a public company such as the Company are not submit themselves for re-election at the 2005 AGM, except for Ken Hydon and Sir permitted to pass resolutions by written consent.
David Scholey, who are retiring.
Record holders of the Companys ADSs are entitled to attend, speak and vote on a poll No person is disqualified from being a director or is required to vacate that ofce by or a show of hands at any general meeting of the Companys shareholders by the reason of age.
If, at a general meeting, a director who is 70 or more years of age is Depositarys appointment of them as corporate representatives with respect to the proposed for election or re-election, that directors age must be set out in the notice of underlying ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
Alternatively, holders of ADSs the meeting.
are entitled to vote by supplying their voting instructions to the Depositary or its Directors are not required, under the Companys Articles, to hold any shares of the nominee, who will vote the ordinary shares underlying their ADSs in accordance with Company as a qualication to act as a director, although executive directors their instructions.
participating in long term incentive plans must comply with the Companys share Employees are able to vote any shares held under the Vodafone Group Share Incentive ownership guidelines.
In accordance with best practice in the UK for corporate Plan, the Vodafone Group profit Sharing Scheme and My ShareBank a vested share governance, compensation awarded to executive directors is decided by a account through the respective plans trustees, Mourant ECS Trustees Limited.
remuneration committee consisting exclusively of non-executive directors.
Liquidation rights In addition, as required by The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations, the Board has, since 2003, prepared a report to shareholders on the directors remuneration In the event of the liquidation of the Company, after payment of all liabilities and which complies with the Regulations see pages 65 to 74.
The report is also subject deductions in accordance with English law, the holders of the Companys 7% to a shareholder vote.
cumulative xed rate shares would be entitled to a sum equal to the capital paid up on such shares, together with certain dividend payments, in priority to holders of the Rights attaching to the Companys shares Companys ordinary shares.
The holders of the xed rate shares do not have any other Dividend rights right to share in the Companys surplus assets.
Holders of the Companys ordinary shares may by ordinary resolution declare dividends Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares but may not declare dividends in excess of the amount recommended by the directors.
Under Section 80 of the Companies Act, directors are, with certain exceptions, unable The Board of directors may also pay interim dividends.
No dividend may be paid other to allot relevant securities without the authority of the shareholders in a general than out of profits available for distribution.
Dividends on ordinary shares will be meeting.
Relevant securities as dened in the Companies Act include the Companys announced in pounds sterling.
Holders of ordinary shares with a registered address in ordinary shares or securities convertible into the Companys ordinary shares.
In a euro-zone country dened, for this purpose, as a country that has adopted the euro addition, Section 89 of the Companies Act imposes further restrictions on the issue of as its national currency will receive their dividends in euro, exchanged from pounds equity securities as dened in the Companies Act, which include the Companys sterling at a rate xed by the Board of directors in accordance with the Articles of ordinary shares and securities convertible into ordinary shares which are, or are to be, Association.
Dividends for ADS holders represented by ordinary shares held by the paid up wholly in cash and not first offered to existing shareholders.
The Companys Depositary will be paid to the Depositary in US dollars, exchanged from pounds sterling Articles of Association allow shareholders to authorise directors for a period up to five at a rate xed by the directors in accordance with the Articles of Association, and the years to allot a relevant securities generally up to an amount xed by the shareholders Depositary will distribute them to the ADS holders.
and b equity securities for cash other than in connection with a rights issue up to an 144 | Shareholder information 793529 2060 3 6 05 10:42 Page 145 amount specified by the shareholders and free of the restriction in Section 89.
In operator of a unit trust recognised scheme collective investment scheme open-ended accordance with institutional investor guidelines, the amount of relevant securities to be investment company.
xed by shareholders is normally restricted to one third of the existing issued ordinary Sections 204 to 206 of the Companies Act set out particular rules of disclosure where share capital, and the amount of equity securities to be issued for cash other than in two or more parties each a concert party have entered into an agreement to acquire connection with a rights issue is restricted to 5% of the existing issued ordinary share interests in shares of a public company, and the agreement imposes capital.
obligations restrictions on any concert party with respect to the use, retention or Variation of rights disposal of the shares in the company and an acquisition of shares by a concert party pursuant to the agreement has taken place.
If, at any time, the Companys share capital is divided into different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class may be varied, subject to the provisions of the Under Section 212 of the Companies Act, the Company may by notice in writing Companies Act, either with the consent in writing of the holders of three fourths in require a person that the Company knows or has reasonable cause to believe is or was nominal value of the shares of that class or upon the adoption of an extraordinary during the preceding three years interested in the Companys shares to indicate resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
whether or not that is correct and, if that person does or did hold an interest in the Companys shares, to provide certain information as set out in the Companies Act.
At every such separate meeting, all of the provisions of the Articles of Association relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, except that a the quorum is to be Sections 324 to 329 of the Companies Act further deal with the disclosure by persons the number of persons which must be at least two who hold or represent by proxy not and certain members of their families of interests in shares or debentures of the less than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or, if such companies of which they are directors and certain associated companies.
quorum is not present on an adjourned meeting, one person who holds shares of the There are additional disclosure obligations under Rule 3 of the Substantial Acquisitions class regardless of the number of shares he holds, b any person present in person or Rules where a person acquires 15% or more of the voting rights of a listed company or by proxy may demand a poll, and c each shareholder will have one vote per share when an acquisition increases his holding of shares or rights over shares so as to held in that particular class in the event a poll is taken.
increase his voting rights beyond that level by a whole percentage point.
Notication in Class rights are deemed not to have been varied by the creation or issue of new shares this case should be to the Company, the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers and the UK ranking equally with or subsequent to that class of shares in sharing in profits or assets Listing Authority through one of its approved regulatory information services no later of the Company or by a redemption or repurchase of the shares by the Company.
than 12 noon on the business day following the date of the acquisition.
Limitations on voting and shareholding The City Code on Takeovers and Mergers also contains strict disclosure requirements There are no limitations imposed by English law or the Companys Articles of on all parties to a takeover with regard to dealings in the securities of an offeror or Association on the right of non-residents or foreign persons to hold or vote the offeree company and also on their respective associates during the course of an offer Companys shares other than those limitations that would generally apply to all of the period.
General meetings and notices Disclosure of interests in the Companys shares Annual general meetings are held at such times and place as determined by the There are no provisions in the Articles of Association whereby persons acquiring, directors of the Company.
The directors may also, when they think t, convene an holding or disposing of a certain percentage of the Companys shares are required to extraordinary general meeting of the Company.
Extraordinary general meetings may make disclosure of their ownership percentage, although such requirements exist also be convened on requisition as provided by the Companies Act.
An annual general meeting and an extraordinary general meeting called for the passing The basic disclosure requirement under Sections 198 to 211 of the Companies Act of a special resolution need to be called by not less than twenty-one days notice in imposes upon a person interested in the shares of the Company a statutory obligation writing and all other extraordinary general meetings by not less than fourteen days to provide written notication to the Company, including certain details as set out in the notice in writing.
The directors may determine that persons entitled to receive notices Companies Act, where: of meetings are those persons entered on the register at the close of business on a day determined by the directors but not later than twenty-one days before the date the a he acquires or becomes aware that he has acquired or ceases to have or relevant notice is sent.
The notice may also specify the record date, which shall not be becomes aware that he has ceased to have an interest in shares comprising any more than forty-eight hours before the time xed for the meeting.
class of the Companys issued and voting share capital: and Shareholders must provide the Company with an address or so far as the Companies b as a result, EITHER he obtains, or ceases to have: Act allows an electronic address or fax number in the United Kingdom in order to be i a material interest in 3%, or more: or entitled to receive notices of shareholders meetings and other notices and documents.
In certain circumstances, the Company may give notices to shareholders by ii an aggregate interest whether material or not in 10%, or more of the advertisement in newspapers in the United Kingdom.
Holders of the Companys ADSs Companys voting capital: or are entitled to receive notices under the terms of the Deposit Agreement relating to the iii the percentage of his interest in the Companys voting capital remains above ADSs.
the relevant level and changes by a whole percentage point.
Under Section 366 of the Companies Act 1985 and the Companys Articles of A material interest means, broadly, any beneficial interest including those of a Association, the annual general meeting of shareholders must be held each calendar spouse or a child or a step-child under the age of 18, those of a company which is year with no more than fifteen months elapsing since the date of the preceding annual accustomed to act in accordance with the relevant persons instructions or in which general meeting.
one third or more of the votes are controlled by such person and certain other interests set out in the Companies Act other than those of an investment manager or an Shareholder information | 145 793529 2060 3 6 05 10:42 Page 146 Investor Information continued The New Treaty has been effective in respect of taxes withheld at source for amounts Documents on Display paid or credited on or after 1 May 2003.
Other provisions of the New Treaty, however, The Company is subject to the information requirements of the US Securities and including capital gains tax, took effect for UK purposes for individuals on 6 April 2003 Exchange Act of 1934 applicable to foreign private issuers.
In accordance with these 1 April 2003 for UK companies and took effect for US purposes on 1 January 2004. requirements, the Company les its Annual Report on Form 20-F and other related The rules of the Old Treaty remained applicable until these effective dates.
Moreover, a documents with the SEC.
These documents may be inspected at the SECs public taxpayer can elect to have the Old Treaty apply in its entirety for a period of twelve reference rooms located at 450 Fifth Street, NW Washington, DC 20549.
Information months after the applicable effective dates of the New Treaty if such a taxpayer would on the operation of the public reference room can be obtained in the US by calling the be entitled to greater benets under the Old Treaty.
In addition, some of the Companys SEC lings, including This section is further based in part upon the representations of the Depositary and all those led on or after 4 November 2002, are available on the SECs website at assumes that each obligation in the Deposit Agreement and any related agreement will www.
Shareholders can also obtain copies of the Companys Memorandum be performed in accordance with its terms.
and Articles of Association from the Vodafone website at www.
com or from the Companys registered ofce.
Based on this assumption, for purposes of the Old Treaty and the New Treaty and the US-UK double taxation convention relating to estate and gift taxes the Estate Tax Material Contracts Convention, and for US federal income tax and UK tax purposes, a holder of ADRs At the date of this Annual Report, the Group is not party to any contracts that are evidencing ADSs will be treated as the owner of the shares in the Company considered material to the Groups results or operations, except for its $10.4 billion represented by those ADSs.
Generally, exchanges of shares for ADRs, and ADRs for credit facilities which are discussed under Operating and Financial Review and shares, will not be subject to US federal income tax or to UK tax, other than stamp duty Prospects Liquidity and Cash Resources.
or stamp duty reserve tax see the section on these taxes below.
Exchange Controls Taxation of dividends There are no UK government laws, decrees or regulations that restrict or affect the UK Taxation export or import of capital, including but not limited to, foreign exchange controls on Under current UK tax law, no withholding tax will be deducted from dividends paid by remittance of dividends on the ordinary shares or on the conduct of the Groups the Company.
operations, except as otherwise set out under Taxation.
A shareholder that is a company resident for UK tax purposes in the United Kingdom will not be taxable on a dividend it receives from the Company.
A shareholder in the Taxation Company who is an individual resident for UK tax purposes in the United Kingdom is As this is a complex area, investors should consult their own tax adviser regarding the entitled, in calculating their liability to UK income tax, to a tax credit on cash dividends US federal, state and local, the UK and other tax consequences of owning and paid on shares in the Company or ADSs, and the tax credit is equal to one-ninth of the disposing of shares and ADSs in their particular circumstances, and in particular cash dividend.
whether they are eligible for the benets of the Old Treaty and or the New Treaty.
If applicable, under the Old Treaty, a US holder was entitled to a tax credit from the UK This section describes for a US holder as dened below, in general terms, the Inland Revenue equal to the amount of the tax credit available to a shareholder resident principal US federal income tax and UK tax consequences of owning shares or ADSs in in the United Kingdom i. e. one-ninth of the dividend received but the amount of the the Company as capital assets for US and UK tax purposes.
This section does not, dividend plus the amount of the tax credit were then subject to withholding in an however, cover the tax consequences for members of certain classes of holders subject amount equal to the amount of the tax credit.
A US holder, therefore, did not, in fact, to special rules and holders that, directly or indirectly, hold 10 per cent or more of the receive any repayment from the UK Inland Revenue in respect of a dividend from the Companys voting stock.
Company, although assuming the US holder was not resident in the United Kingdom for A US holder is a beneficial owner of shares or ADSs that is for US federal income tax UK tax purposes, there was no further UK tax to pay in respect of that dividend.
purposes: Under the New Treaty, a US holder is not entitled to a tax credit from the UK Inland i a citizen or resident of the United States: Revenue in the manner described above and dividends received by the US holder from the Company are not subject to any withholding by the United Kingdom under the New ii US domestic corporation: Treaty or otherwise.
iii an estate the income of which is subject to US federal income tax regardless of its US Federal Income Taxation source: or A US holder is subject to US federal income taxation on the gross amount of any iv a trust if a US court can exercise primary supervision over the trusts administration dividend paid by the Company out of its current or accumulated earnings and profits and one or more US persons are authorised to control all substantial decisions of as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate the trust.
US holder in tax years beginning before 1 January 2009 that constitute qualied dividend income will be taxable to the holder at a maximum tax rate of 15%, provided This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its legislative that the ordinary shares or ADSs are held for more than 60 days during the 121-day history, existing and proposed regulations thereunder, published rulings and court period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend rate and the holder meets other decisions, and on the tax laws of the United Kingdom, all as currently in effect, as well holding period requirements.
Dividends paid by the Company with respect to the as on the Double Taxation Convention between the United States and the United shares or ADSs will generally be qualied dividend income.
Kingdom entered into force in 1980 the Old Treaty and the Double Taxation Convention between the United States and the United Kingdom that entered into force A US holder that is eligible and elects the benets of the Old Treaty, for dividends paid on 31 March 2003 the New Treaty.
These laws are subject to change, possibly on prior to 1 May 2004 may include in the gross amount of income the UK tax withheld a retroactive basis.
from the dividend payment pursuant to the Old Treaty as described under 146 | Shareholder information 793529 2060 3 6 05 10:42 Page 147 UK Taxation.
Subject to certain limitations, the UK tax withheld in accordance with United Kingdom or the United States and who have been residents of the other the Old Treaty and effectively paid over to the UK Inland Revenue will be creditable jurisdiction the US or the UK, as the case may be at any time during the six years against the US holders US federal income tax liability, provided the US holder is eligible immediately preceding the relevant disposal of shares or ADSs may be subject to tax for the benets of the Old Treaty and has properly led Internal Revenue Form 8833. with respect to capital gains arising from the dispositions of the shares or ADSs not Special rules apply in determining the foreign tax credit limitation with respect to only in the country of which the holder is resident at the time of the disposition, but dividends that are subject to the maximum 15% tax rate.
also in that other country although, in respect of UK taxation, generally only to the extent that such an individual comprises a Temporary Non-Resident.
Under the New Treaty, a US holder is not entitled to a UK tax credit payment, but is also not subject to a UK withholding tax.
The US holder includes in gross income for US federal US federal income taxation income tax purposes only the amount of the dividend actually received from the Company, A US holder that sells or otherwise disposes of the Companys shares or ADSs will and the receipt of a dividend does not entitle the US holder to a foreign tax credit.
recognise a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount realised and the holders tax basis, In either case, dividends must be included in income when the US holder, in the case of determined in US dollars, in the shares or ADSs.
Generally, capital gain of a nonshares, or the Depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively receives the corporate US holder that is recognised before 1 January 2009 is taxed at a maximum dividend and will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction generally allowed rate of 15%, provided the holder has a holding period of more than one year.
The gain to US corporations in respect of dividends received from other US corporations.
or loss will generally be income or loss from sources within the United States for foreign Dividends will be income from sources outside the United States and will generally be tax credit limitation purposes.
The deductibility of losses is subject to limitations.
passive income or financial services income, which is treated separately from other types of income for the purposes of computing any allowable foreign tax credit.
Additional tax considerations In the case of shares, the amount of the dividend distribution to be included in income will UK inheritance tax be the US dollar value of the pound sterling payments made, determined at the spot pound An individual who is domiciled in the United States for the purposes of the Estate Tax sterling US dollar rate on the date of the dividend distribution, regardless of whether the Convention and is not a UK national will not be subject to UK inheritance tax in respect payment is in fact converted into US dollars.
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from of the Companys shares or ADSs on the individuals death or on a transfer of the currency exchange uctuations during the period from the date the dividend payment is to shares or ADSs during the individuals lifetime, provided that any applicable US federal be included in income to the date the payment is converted into US dollars will be treated gift or estate tax is paid, unless the shares or ADSs are part of the business property of as ordinary income or loss.
Generally, the gain or loss will be income or loss from sources a UK permanent establishment or pertain to a UK xed base used for the performance within the United States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
Where the shares or ADSs have been placed in trust by a settlor, they may be subject to UK inheritance tax unless, when the trust was Taxation of capital gains created, the settlor was domiciled in the United States and was not a UK national.
UK taxation Where the shares or ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance tax and to US federal gift A US holder may be liable for both UK and US tax in respect of a gain on the disposal or estate tax, the Estate and Gift Tax Convention generally provides a credit against US of the Companys shares or ADSs if the US holder is: federal tax liabilities for UK inheritance tax paid.
i a citizen of the United States resident or ordinarily resident for UK tax purposes in UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax the United Kingdom: Stamp duty will, subject to certain exceptions, be payable on any instrument ii a citizen of the United States who has been resident or ordinarily resident for UK tax transferring shares in the Company to the Custodian of the Depositary at the rate of purposes in the United Kingdom, ceased to be so resident or ordinarily resident for 1.5% on the amount or value of the consideration if on sale or on the value of such a period of less than 5 years of assessment and who disposed of the shares or shares if not on sale.
Stamp duty reserve tax SDRT, at the rate of 1.5% of the price ADSs during that period a Temporary Non-Resident, unless the shares or ADSs or value of the shares, could also be payable in these circumstances, and on issue to were also acquired during that period, such liability arising on that individuals such a person, but no SDRT will be payable if stamp duty equal to such SDRT liability is return to the UK: paid.
In accordance with the terms of the Deposit Agreement, any tax or duty payable on deposits of shares by the Depositary or the Custodian of the Depositary will be iii a US domestic corporation resident in the United Kingdom by reason of being charged to the party to whom ADSs are delivered against such deposits.
centrally managed and controlled in the United Kingdom: or No stamp duty will be payable on any transfer of ADSs of the Company, provided that iv a citizen of the United States or a corporation that carries on a trade, profession or the ADSs and any separate instrument of transfer are executed and retained at all vocation in the United Kingdom through a branch or agency or, in respect of times outside the United Kingdom.
companies through a permanent establishment and that has used the shares or ADSs for the purposes of such trade, profession or vocation or has used, held or A transfer of shares in the Company in registered form will attract ad valorem stamp acquired the shares or ADSs for the purposes of such branch or agency or duty generally at the rate of 0.5% of the purchase price of the shares.
There is no permanent establishment.
charge to ad valorem stamp duty on gifts.
On a transfer from nominee to beneficial owner the nominee having at all times held the shares on behalf of the transferee However, subject to applicable limitations and eligibility to the provisions of the Old under which no beneficial interest passes and which is neither a sale nor in Treaty, such persons may be entitled to a tax credit against their US federal income tax contemplation of a sale, a xed 5.00 stamp duty will be payable.
liability for the amount of UK capital gains tax or UK corporation tax on chargeable gains as the case may be which is paid in respect of such gain.
SDRT is generally payable on an unconditional agreement to transfer shares in the Company in registered form at 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration for Under the New Treaty, capital gains on dispositions of the shares or ADSs are generally the transfer, but is repayable if, within six years of the date of the agreement, an subject to tax only in the country of residence of the relevant holder as determined instrument transferring the shares is executed or, if the SDRT has not been paid, the under both the laws of the United Kingdom and the United States and as required by liability to pay the tax but not necessarily interest and penalties would be cancelled.
the terms of the New Treaty.
However, individuals who are residents of either the However, an agreement to transfer the ADSs of the Company will not give rise to SDRT.
Shareholder information | 147 793529 2060 3 6 05 10:42 Page 148 Investor Information continued Contact Details Registered Ofce Vodafone House The Connection Newbury Berkshire RG14 2FN England Telephone: 44 0 1635 33251 Fax: 44 0 1635 45713 Group Corporate Affairs Simon Lewis Group Corporate Affairs Director Telephone: 44 0 1635 673310 Fax: 44 0 1635 682890 Investor Relations Charles Butterworth Darren Jones Sarah Moriarty Telephone: 44 0 1635 673310 Media Relations Bobby Leach Ben Padovan Telephone: 44 0 1635 673310 Corporate Responsibility Charlotte Grezo Director of Corporate Responsibility Telephone: 44 0 1635 33251 Fax: 44 0 1635 674478 E-mail: responsibility@vodafone.
