Notes to the Company Financial Statements 1.
Accounting Policies Basis of preparation The Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP and applicable accounting standards.
In preparing the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005 the Company has adopted FRS20 Share-based Payment, FRS21 Events After the Balance Sheet Date, FRS23 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates, FRS25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, FRS26 Financial Instruments: Measurement and FRS28 Corresponding Amounts.
Further information is provided in note 11 to the financial statements.
Foreign currency translation The presentation and functional currency of the Company is sterling.
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the Companys functional currency at the exchange rate ruling on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate ruling on the balance sheet date.
Currency translation differences are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Tangible assets Tangible assets are stated at cost and the cost is depreciated over the estimated useful life by equal annual instalments at rates of 7.5% for ofce equipment and 25% for computer equipment.
Investments Investments in subsidiaries and associates are held at historical cost less a provision for impairment.
Previously, investments in subsidiaries and associates were held at valuation representing the amount of attributable underlying net assets at the balance sheet date including related unamortised goodwill together with the unallocated pension liability relating to subsidiaries.
Following conversion of the Group financial statements onto an IFRS basis it was considered that this policy was no longer practical.
The comparative gures have been restated accordingly and the effect of this is disclosed in notes 4 and 11.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less or to receive more, tax, with the exception that deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Retirement benets The Company and other major UK subsidiaries of the Group participate in multi-employer dened benefit pension plans which are set up under separate trusts.
These plans are operated on a basis that does not enable individual companies to identify their share of the underlying assets and liabilities and in accordance with FRS17 the Company accounts for its contributions to the plans as if they are dened contribution plans.
In addition, the Company has unfunded unapproved pension promises.
Contributions are made on the advice of an independent qualied actuary.
Pension plan liabilities are measured using the projected unit method and discounted at the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
Any increase in the present value of the liabilities of the Companys unfunded unapproved pension promises expected to arise from employee service in the period is charged against operating profit.
The increase in the period in the present value of the plans liabilities, arising from the passage of time, is included in other finance income.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Contributions to dened contribution pension plans are charged to the profit and loss account when they become payable.
Leasing Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Share-based payments Equity settled share-based incentives are provided to employees under the Companys executive share option scheme, the savings-related share option scheme and the L-TIP.
The Company recognises a compensation cost in respect of these schemes that is based on the fair value of the awards.
For equity settled schemes, the fair value is determined at the date of grant and is not subsequently re-measured unless the conditions on which the award was granted are modied.
The fair value at the date of the grant is calculated using appropriate option pricing models and the cost is recognised on a straightline basis over the vesting period.
Adjustments are made to reect expected and actual forfeitures during the vesting period due to failure to satisfy service conditions or non-market performance conditions.
As permitted by FRS20, the Company has applied FRS20 Share-based Payment retrospectively only to equity settled awards that were granted on or after 7 November 2002 and had not vested as at 1 January 2005.
94 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2005
