Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Authorisation of financial statements & statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements of The Weir Group PLC for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005 were approved and authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors on 21 March 2006.
The comparative information is presented for the 53 weeks ended 31 December 2004.
For practical reasons, the Group prepares its financial statements to the week ending closest to the company reference date of 31 December.
The results on this basis are unlikely to be materially different from those that would be presented for a period of one year.
The Weir Group PLC is a limited company incorporated in Scotland and is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The consolidated financial statements of The Weir Group PLC have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and applied in accordance with the provisions of The Companies Act 1985.
The principal activities of the Group are described in note 3.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation This is the first year in which the Group has prepared its financial statements under IFRS and the comparatives have been restated from UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP to comply with IFRS.
An explanation of the transition to IFRS and the reconciliations from the previously published UK GAAP financial statements to IFRS are summarised in note 32.
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005.
Where the Group has applied different policies for part of the period since its transition to IFRS on 27 December 2003, this is explained in note 32.
The Group financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except when otherwise indicated.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the results, cash ows and assets and liabilities of The Weir Group PLC the Company and its subsidiaries together, the Group, and the Groups share of its joint ventures and associates results.
The financial statements of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are prepared for the same reporting period as the Company using consistent accounting policies.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled, either directly or indirectly, by the Company, where control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefit from its activities.
The results of a subsidiary acquired during the period are included in the Groups results from the effective date on which control is transferred to the Group.
The results of a subsidiary sold during the period are included in the Groups results up to the effective date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
All intragroup transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Minority interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from the Company shareholders equity.
Joint ventures & associates A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an interest on a long term basis and which is jointly controlled by the Group and one or more other venturers under a contractual arrangement.
The Groups interest in the results and assets and liabilities of its joint ventures, which are jointly controlled entities, are accounted for using the equity method.
An associate is an entity over which the Company, either directly or indirectly, is in a position to exercise significant inuence by participating in, but not controlling or jointly controlling, the financial and operating policies of the entity.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method.
These investments are carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets less any impairment in value.
The income statement reects the share of results of operations of these investments after tax.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the investees equity, the Group recognises its share of any changes and discloses this when applicable in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a joint venture or associate, representing the excess of the cost of the investment compared to the Groups share of the net fair value of the joint venture or associates identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, is included in the carrying amount of the joint venture or associate and is not amortised.
To the extent that the net fair value of the joint venture or associates identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater than the cost of the investment, a gain is recognised and added to the Groups share of the joint venture or associates profit or loss in the period in which the investment is acquired.
Foreign currency translation The financial statements for each of the Groups subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are prepared using their functional currency.
The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which an entity operates.
At entity level, transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the entitys functional currency at the exchange rate ruling on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate ruling on the balance sheet date.
Currency translation differences are recognised in the income statement except when hedge accounting is applied.
46 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2005
