Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the members of We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of The Weir Group PLC any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend We have audited the Company financial statements of The Weir to any other information.
Group PLC for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005 which comprise the balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 15.
These Basis of audit opinion Company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards information in the Remuneration Committee Report that is on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices described as having been audited.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Company financial We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of statements and the part of the Remuneration Commitee Report The Weir Group PLC for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005. to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, of the Company financial statements, and of whether the in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Company's members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility information and explanations which we considered necessary in to anyone other than the Company and the Company's members order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions assurance that the Company financial statements and the part we have formed.
of the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the the Remuneration Committee Report and the Company financial Company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law Committee Report to be audited.
and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice as set out in the Directors Statement Opinion of Responsibilities.
In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the Company financial statements the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, and the part of the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and Accounting Practice, of the state of the Company's affairs International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
as at 30 December 2005: and We report to you our opinion as to whether the Company financial the Company financial statements and the part of the statements give a true and fair view and whether the Company Remuneration Committee Report to be audited have been financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Committee properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the Company financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper Ernst & Young LLP accounting records, if we have not received all the information Registered auditor and explanations we require for our audit, or if information Glasgow specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other 21 March 2006 transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Financial Highlights 2005, 2005 Highlights, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Operational Review, the Financial Review, the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Remuneration Committee Report, the Corporate Governance Statement, the Audit Committee Report, the Nomination Committee Report and the Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
92 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2005
