Shareholder Information Registrars Website The Companys registrars are Computershare Investor Services You may wish to view the Company website containing details PLC, PO Box 82, The Pavillions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, of Group activities and investor information including the Notice BS99 7NH.
of the Annual General Meeting and the full annual report.
Shareholder enquiries relating to shareholding, dividend payments, change of address, loss of share certicate etc.
should be addressed Share dealing services to Computershare Investor Services PLC at the above address.
Share dealing services have been established with the Companys The registrars provide an on-line service that enables shareholders registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC which provide to access details of their Weir Group shareholdings.
A shareholder shareholders with an easy way to buy or sell Weir Group shares wishing to view the information, together with additional on the London Stock Exchange.
information such as indicative share prices and details of recent dividends, should visit www.
Internet Share Dealing commission is just 0.5%, subject to a minimum charge of GBP15.
In addition stamp duty, currently 0.5%, is payable on purchases.
There is no need to open an Dividends payment direct to banks account in order to deal.
Real time dealing is available during Dividends can be paid direct to your bank or building society market hours.
In addition there is a convenient facility to place account using the Bankers Automated Clearing Service BACS.
your order outside of market hours.
Up to 90 day limit orders This means that your dividend will be in your account on the same are available for sales.
To access the service log on to day the Company makes the payment.
Your tax voucher will be www.
Shareholders should have posted directly to your own address.
Shareholders who have not their Shareholder Reference Number SRN available.
The SRN yet arranged to use this method of payment, can telephone the appears on share certicates.
A bank debit card will be required registrars on 0870 702 0010.
The Company encourages you to for purchases.
Please note that, at present, this service is only have your dividends paid direct to a bank or building society.
available to shareholders in certain European jurisdictions.
Please refer to the website for an up-to-date list of these countries.
Annual General Meeting Telephone Share Dealing commission is 1%, subject to a The Annual General Meeting will be held in the Lecture Room, minimum charge of GBP15.
In addition stamp duty, currently The Burrell Collection, Pollok Park, Glasgow on 10 May 2006 at 0.5%, is payable on purchases.
The service is available from 12 noon.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual 8am to 4.30pm Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays, General Meeting are contained in the shareholders circular.
Shareholders should have their Shareholder Reference Number SRN ready when making Taxation the call.
The SRN appears on share certicates.
A bank debit card will be required for purchases.
Detailed terms and conditions are For the purpose of capital gains tax, the market value of The Weir available on request by telephoning 0870 703 0119.
Please note Group PLC ordinary shares as at 31 March 1982 was 29.75p.
this service is, at present, only available to shareholders resident Rights issues of ordinary shares took place in April 1987 at 157p in the UK and Ireland.
per share on the basis of one new ordinary share for every seven ordinary shares held, in July 1990 at 250p per share on the basis These services are offered on an execution only basis and subject to of one new ordinary share for every five ordinary shares held and the applicable terms and conditions.
This is not a recommendation in September 1994 at 252p per share on the basis of one new to buy, sell or hold Weir Group shares.
Shareholders who are ordinary share for every four ordinary shares held.
unsure of what action to take should obtain independent financial advice.
Share values may go down as well as up which may result With effect from 28 June 1993, each ordinary share of 25p was in a shareholder receiving less than he she originally invested.
sub-divided into two ordinary shares of 12.5p and the market value of an ordinary share as at 31 March 1982 takes account To the extent that this statement is a financial promotion for the of the sub-division.
share dealing service provided by Computershare Investor Services PLC, it has been approved by Computershare Investor Services Shareholder communications PLC for the purpose of Section 21 2 b of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 only.
Computershare Investor Services PLC You can now register to receive shareholder communications is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
annual reports, interim reports and other company Where this has been received in a country where the provision communications electronically and also appoint a proxy and of such a service would be contrary to local laws or regulations, vote electronically provided you have internet access and a this should be treated as information only.
To register, you will need your Shareholder Reference Number, which is given on your Share Certicate or Tax Dividend Voucher.
This service is provided in conjunction with our registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC.
To obtain more information and register for this service, please visit www.
104 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2005
