IFRS STATEMENTS for the year ended 28 February 2005 2005 2005 3.
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement m m For the year ended 28 February 2005 Cash flows from operating activities Profit from operations 147.1 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 2.3 Increase in working capital 35.0 Other non-cash movements 2.3 Cash from operating activities 116.7 Interest paid 22.0 Tax paid 36.7 Net cash inflow from operating activities 58.0 Cash flows from investing activities Purchases of property, plant and equipment 2.0 Disposals of property, plant and equipment 1.8 Advances to joint venture 12.7 Purchase of fixed asset investments 6.0 Net cash outflow from investing activities 18.9 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from issue of share capital 1.2 Dividends paid 16.8 Capital element of finance lease repayments 0.3 Repayment of loans 27.4 Loan issue expenses 0.9 Repayment of loan notes 0.4 Net cash outflow from financing activities 44.6 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 5.5 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 7.3 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 1.8 Cash and cash equivalents consists of: Cash in hand and balance with banks 1.8 Reconciliation of Net Cash and Debt for the year ended 28 February 2005 Decrease in cash and cash equivalents 5.5 Cash outflow from decrease in loans and short term borrowings 29.0 Non-cash movements in net funds 2.0 Movement in net funds 21.5 Westbury plc Annual Report 2005 69 IFRS STATEMENTS for the year ended 28 February 2005 Basis of Preparation The financial information has been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The accounting policies applied are set out on pages 70 to 72.
All IASB standards in issue at December 2004 have been endorsed by the EU, except as noted below: The EU has issued a revised version of IAS 39 referred to as the carve out version and has endorsed this rather than the full IASB standard.
The IASB has issued amendments to IAS 19 allowing actuarial gains or losses to be taken directly to reserves, as is required under FRS 17 Retirement Benefits.
These amendments, if endorsed by the EU, will be effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2006, with earlier adoption encouraged by the IASB.
Westbury has adopted the provisions of this amendment.
IFRS 2, IFRS 6 and various IFRIC interpretations and amendments to SIC 12 have not yet been endorsed.
References to IFRS refer to the application of International Accounting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and Standing Interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC.
Accounting Policies The interpretation of IFRS is still developing and so these accounting policies may be subject to change.
Basis of Accounting As set out in the Basis of Preparation, the financial information on pages 67 to 69 has been prepared in accordance with IAS and IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The accounting policy for financial instruments complies with the EU carve out version of IAS 39.
The policies also assume that the amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits published in December 2004 by the IASB, allowing actuarial gains and losses to be recognised in full through reserves, will be endorsed by the EU.
Westbury consider the following to be the most important accounting policies in the context of the Groups operations.
Revenue Turnover on new house sales is recognised on legal completion and is net of cash discounts.
The purchase of second-hand houses is regarded as an incentive for the sale of new houses and therefore the subsequent sale of these houses is excluded from turnover.
Space 4 turnover is recognised on the sale of factory manufactured house shells.
Incresco turnover is recognised on issue of an invoice commission on financial service related products, with provisioning for anticipated cancellation.
Debtors and Creditors In accordance with IAS the Group discounts its long term creditors and long term debtors.
Under this policy all debtors and creditors due over one year of initial recognition are discounted to their net present value at that date using the cost of borrowing for either the company or vendor as appropriate.
The Groups policy is to capitalise interest on discounted land vendors and other discounted creditors that arise from project specific loans.
Interest accruing to the land vendor balance is expensed to the Income Statement in direct proportion to the recognition of revenue on the project to which the creditor relates.
Where discounting is carried out for a long term debtor or creditor that is not project specific then interest will accrue to the debtor or creditor on a compounded basis and be credited or expensed to the Income Statement as it is accrued.
Employee benefits The Group accounts for pensions and similar benefits principally healthcare under IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
In respect of defined benefit plans, obligations are measured at discounted present value whilst plan assets are recorded at fair value.
The operating and financial costs of such plans are recognised separately in the income statement: service costs are spread over the working lives of employees and financing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Share-based payments In accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payments the fair value of the grants are charged to the income statement over the vesting period of the options.
The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of options vesting.
70 Westbury plc Annual Report 2005 IFRS STATEMENTS for the year ended 28 February 2005 Taxation The charge for current tax is based on the results for the year as adjusted for items which are non-assessable or disallowed.
It is calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
No deferred tax asset or liability is recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the Group is able to control the timing of reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated at the rates that are expected to apply when the asset or liability is settled.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Tangible fixed assets The Groups policy is to write off the difference between the cost of each tangible fixed asset and its residual value over its estimated useful life.
Reviews are made annually of the estimated remaining lives and residual values of individual productive assets, taking account of commercial and technological obsolescence as well as normal wear and tear.
The Group considers the following straight line depreciation rates to be appropriate for the following asset classes:- Plant, machinery and equipment 20-25% Motor vehicles 25-33% Buildings 4% Irrespective of the above depreciation rates, all tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Plant, machinery and equipment of Space4 is depreciated based on its expected usage in terms of units produced.
Intangible fixed assets Intangible fixed assets comprise purchased goodwill, know-how licences and software development costs.
On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the net assets acquired.
Goodwill arises where the consideration given for a business exceeds the fair value of such net assets.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and subject to impairment review, both annually and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Previously goodwill was amortised over its estimated useful life: such amortisation ceased on 29 February 2004.
Know-how licences for Space4 and Incresco are amortised based on expected usage in terms of units produced and the Incresco knowhow licence is amortised over 5 years.
The Group capitalises costs for the development of its software and amortises these costs over the expected useful economic life of the software.
Four years is normally considered to be an appropriate useful economic life for capitalised software.
Leases Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in tangible fixed assets at fair value.
Each asset is depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or its useful life.
The obligations related to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included, as appropriate, under creditors due within, or creditors due after more than, one year.
The interest element of the rental obligation is allocated to accounting periods during the lease term to reflect a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each accounting period.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures A subsidiary is an entity controlled, directly or indirectly, by Westbury plc.
Control is regarded as the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
An associate is an undertaking, not being a subsidiary or joint venture in which Westbury has a participating interest and over whose commercial and financial policy decisions Westbury has the power to exert significant influence.
Westbury plc Annual Report 2005 71 IFRS STATEMENTS for the year ended 28 February 2005 A joint venture is an entity in which Westbury holds an interest on a long term basis and which is jointly controlled by Westbury and one or more other venturers under a contractual arrangement.
Westburys share of the profit less losses of all significant joint ventures and associates is included in the Group Income statement on the equity accounting basis.
The holding value of significant associates and joint ventures in the Group balance sheet is calculated by reference to Westburys equity in the net assets of associates and joint ventures, as shown by the most recent accounts available.
Contingent liabilities Through the normal course of business, Westbury is involved in legal disputes, the settlement of which may involve cost to the Group.
Provision is made where an adverse outcome is probable and associated costs can be estimated reliably.
Inventories Stocks are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
The first in, first out or an average method of valuation is used.
For finished goods and work in progress, cost includes directly attributable costs and certain overhead expenses including depreciation.
Selling expenses and certain other overhead expenses principally central administration costs are excluded.
Net realisable value is determined as estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Financial instruments IAS 32 and 39 are to be adopted prospectively from 1 March 2005.
Financial instruments are recorded initially at fair value.
Subsequent measurement depends on the designation of the instrument, as follows: Investments other than interest in joint ventures, associates and fixed deposits and short term investments other than fixed deposits are normally designated as available for sale.
Where the exposure to a change in fair value of such an asset is substantially offset by the exposure to a change in the fair value of derivatives, the asset is generally classified as fair value through profit or loss.
Fixed deposits, comprising principally funds held with banks and other financial institutions, and short term borrowings and overdrafts are classified as loans and receivables and held at amortised cost.
Derivatives, comprising interest rate swaps, foreign exchange contracts and options and embedded derivatives, are classified as held for trading.
Changes in fair value are taken to the income statement.
Long term loans are generally held at amortised cost.
Where a derivative financial instrument generally an interest rate swap hedges the changes in fair value of a long term loan, any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement.
The hedged item is also stated at fair value in respect of the risk being hedged, with any gain or loss being recognised in the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of financial instruments are dealt with as follows: Assets which are available for sale, exchange losses and impairments are taken to the income statement.
All other changes in fair value are taken to reserves.
On disposal of the related asset, the accumulated changes in fair value recorded in reserves are included in the gain or loss recorded in the income statement.
For long term loans effectively hedged, assets at fair value through profit or loss and assets held for trading, all changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement.
72 Westbury plc Annual Report 2005 NOTICE OF MEETING THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
IF YOU ARE IN DOUBT AS TO THE ACTION YOU SHOULD TAKE, YOU SHOULD CONSULT IMMEDIATELY YOUR STOCKBROKER, BANK MANAGER, SOLICITOR, ACCOUNTANT OR OTHER INDEPENDENT FINANCIAL ADVISER AUTHORISED UNDER THE FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS ACT 2000.
IF YOU HAVE SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED ALL YOUR SHARES IN THE COMPANY, PLEASE SEND THIS DOCUMENT AND THE ACCOMPANYING DOCUMENTS TO THE PURCHASER OR TRANSFEREE OR TO THE STOCKBROKER, BANK OR OTHER AGENT THROUGH WHOM THE SALE OR TRANSFER WAS EFFECTED FOR TRANSMISSION TO THE PURCHASER OR TRANSFEREE.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the twentieth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at The Queens Hotel, The Promenade, Cheltenham, Gloucestershire GL50 1NN on Friday 1 July 2005 at 12.00 mid-day for the following purposes: Ordinary business 1.
To receive and adopt the reports of the directors and auditors together with the financial statements for the year ended 28 February 2005.
To re-elect M C Donohue as a director.
To re-elect D R Wilson as a director.
To re-elect J Ferrie as a director.
To approve the Remuneration Report.
To re-appoint  LLP as auditors of the Company.
To authorise the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Special business To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Resolutions of which Resolution 9 is to be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution and Resolutions 10 and 11 as Special Resolutions: 9.
THAT in place of all existing authorities the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot relevant securities within the meaning of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,482,448 for a period expiring unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the date on which this resolution is passed, but the Company may make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after expiry of this authority and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of that offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 9 in the notice of the Annual General Meeting and in place of all existing powers the directors be generally empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 94 2 to section 94 3A of the Companies Act 1985 for cash, pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 9 in the notice of the Annual General Meeting as if section 89 1 of the Companies Act 1985 did not apply to the allotment.
This power: a expires at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the date on which this resolution is passed, but the Company may make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after expiry of this power and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of that offer or agreement as if this power had not expired: and b shall be limited to: i the allotment of equity securities in connection with an issue in favour of holders of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in proportion as nearly as may be to their existing holdings of ordinary shares, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or any legal or practical problems under the laws of any territory, or the requirements of a regulatory body or stock exchange: and ii the allotment of equity securities for cash otherwise than pursuant to paragraph i up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 573,377.
This power applies in relation to a sale of shares which is an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 94 3A of the Companies Act 1985 as if in the first paragraph of this resolution the words pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 9 in the notice of the Annual General Meeting were omitted.
Westbury plc Annual Report 2005 73 NOTICE OF MEETING 11.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of its ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company, subject to the following conditions: a the maximum number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased is 11,467,552 representing 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 26 April 2005: b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share is 10 pence being the nominal value of an ordinary share : c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for each ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the ordinary shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is contracted to be purchased: d this authority shall expire at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2006: and e a contract to purchase shares under this authority may be made prior to the expiry of this authority, and concluded in whole or in part after the expiry of this authority.
Your directors believe that the proposed Resolutions are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders and unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of them.
By order of the Board C N Chandler Westbury House Secretary Lansdown Road Cheltenham Gloucestershire GL50 2WH 26 April 2005 Notes i A member entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting the Meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and on a poll vote on his her behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
ii A form of proxy for use in relation to the Meeting is enclosed with this report.
To be effective the form of proxy must be completed in accordance with the instructions set out therein and lodged at the office of the Companys Registrar, Capita IRG Plc, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU at least 48 hours before the Meeting.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not preclude a member from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
iii Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that only those shareholders registered in the Register of Members of the Company as at 6.00pm on 29 June 2005, or in the event that the Meeting is adjourned, in the Register of Members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend or vote at the Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at the relevant time.
Changes to entries on the Register of Members after 6.00pm on 29 June 2005 or, in the event that the Meeting is adjourned, less than 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
iv Brief biographical details of directors standing for re-election at the Meeting are set out on pages 30 and 31. v The following documents will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company, during business hours, from the date of this notice until the date of the Meeting Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted and on that date they will be available for inspection at the place of the Meeting from 11.45am until the conclusion of the Meeting: directors service contracts or letters of appointment with the Company, a register of directors interests and the Companys articles of association.
vi CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so.
CREST Electronic Proxy Appointment Service CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 1 July 2005 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The CREST Proxy Instruction, regardless, of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction s given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST Personal Member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
