NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 28 February 2005 1.
Principal accounting policies continued This goodwill is subject to impairment reviews in accordance with the provisions of FRS 11.
Goodwill on acquisitions before 28 February 1998 was written off to reserves and has not been reinstated, as permitted under FRS 10.
The know-how licences for Space4 and Incresco are stated at cost less amortisation.
The Space4 know-how licence is amortised based on its expected usage in terms of units produced and the Incresco know-how licence is amortised over 5 years.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are written down to an estimated residual value on a straight-line basis at the following annual rates: Plant, machinery and equipment 20-25% Motor vehicles 25-33% Buildings 4% Plant, machinery and equipment of Space4 is depreciated based on its expected usage in terms of units produced.
Leases Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalised as though they had been purchased outright with the corresponding liability included as an obligation in finance lease creditors.
Depreciation is charged to the profit and loss account on such assets in accordance with the accounting policy above and the interest element of lease payments is charged to the profit and loss account in proportion to the reducing capital element outstanding.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Stocks Stocks, which comprise land held for development, work in progress and finished and second-hand houses, are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes an appropriate proportion of direct overheads.
Government grants In respect of commercial development, grants received are treated as deferred income and are recognised in the profit and loss account once the development to which they relate has been sold.
Finance costs In accordance with FRS 4 the costs of raising term finance are charged to the profit and loss account over the life of such finance.
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses straightforward derivative financial instruments to manage its interest rate exposures.
Hedge accounting principles are applied to these instruments and the gains and losses are matched against the underlying interest charge.
The instruments are not recognised on the balance sheet at the year end.
The cost of early termination is spread over the maturity period of the underlying debt.
Foreign currency Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction or, if hedged, at the forward contract rate.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date or, if appropriate, at the forward contract rate.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised on all timing differences where the transaction or events that give rise to an obligation to pay more tax in the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future, have occurred by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised when it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Pensions The Group operates two optional contributory final salary pension schemes for selected employees.
The schemes are externally invested and the funds of the schemes are administered by trustees.
Actuarial valuations of the schemes are carried out as determined by the trustees at intervals of three years, the rates of contributions payable being determined on the advice of the actuaries having regard to the results of these valuations.
In the intervening years the actuaries review whether the contribution rates continue to be appropriate.
In addition the Group provides a money purchase Group Personal Pension Plan for all other employees.
Contributions are charged against profits so as to spread the cost of pensions over employees working lives with the Group and are included within staff costs.
Related parties The Group has provided the information required by FRS 8 in respect of transactions and balances with related parties.
This information is given in note 13 in respect of joint ventures, note 20 in respect of the pension scheme and in note 27 in respect of transactions relating to directors and senior managers.
The Group had no other transactions with related parties.
