NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 28 February 2005 1.
Principal accounting policies The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable Accounting Standards in the United Kingdom.
A summary of the more important Group accounting policies is set out below.
These policies have been applied consistently, except in respect of UTIF 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts, UTIF 17 revised, interest capitalisation and the sales incentive policies as discussed below.
The financial statements are made up to the nearest Friday to 28 February each year.
Accordingly these financial statements comprise the 53 week period ended 4 March 2005.
Basis of accounting The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis of accounting.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Westbury plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
The results of subsidiary undertakings or businesses acquired during the year are included in the Consolidated Profit and Loss account from the date on which control passed.
Uniform accounting policies are adopted by the Group and its subsidiary undertakings.
Prior year adjustments and reclassifications The comparative financial information has been restated for UITF 38 and UITF 17 revised which became mandatory for all accounting periods ending on or after 22 June 2004.
This has resulted in own shares held in trust for Long Term Incentive Plan Awards and All Employee Share Scheme Awards being shown as a deduction from the profit and loss account reserves see note 22 instead of a fixed asset investment.
This has resulted in a reduction of net assets of 4.5m as at 29 February 2004.
There was no impact on the profit and loss account.
All sales incentives are now accounted for at the gross profit level whereas previously these had been partly included within operating expenses.
The financial impact of this adjustment is to reclassify 14.5m of incentive costs from operating expenses to cost of sales for the prior year which has been restated to ensure meaningful comparatives.
There is no net effect of this change at the operating profit level.
Following the completion of the Wescott joint venture with Bank of Scotland, the Group has changed its accounting policy in respect of interest capitalisation.
Previously all interest was expensed: however, given the nature of the projects being entered into by the joint venture, the Groups policy is now to capitalise interest where it relates to project-specific loans in accordance with the guidance contained in applicable UK accounting standards.
This change of policy has no impact on the comparative financial information.
The only impact in the current period has been to capitalise 6.9m of interest within the Wescott joint venture.
Turnover Group turnover for the year principally consists of the contract price from legally completed sales of new properties which are stated net of cash discounts and the sale of land where unconditional contracts have been exchanged.
The purchase of partexchange houses is regarded as an incentive for the sale of new houses.
Subsequent sale of part-exchange houses is therefore excluded from turnover and the profit loss arising are included as cost of sales.
Space4 turnover is recognised on the sale of factory manufactured house shells, which normally is the point of delivery.
Incresco turnover is recognised on issue of an invoice for the commission on financial service related products.
Joint arrangements A joint arrangement is an undertaking in which the Group has an interest that does not carry on its own business, but acts as a vehicle to facilitate the Groups activities.
The Groups share of profits and losses of joint arrangements is included in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account, and the Groups share of their separate assets, liabilities and cash flows are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and Group Cash Flow Statement respectively.
Joint ventures A joint venture is an undertaking in which the Group has a participating interest and is jointly controlled under a contractual arrangement.
The Groups share of profits less losses of joint ventures is included in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account, and the Groups share of their gross assets and gross liabilities is included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Since the accounting policies of joint ventures do not necessarily conform in all respects to those of the Group, adjustments are made on consolidation to reflect the accounting policies of the Group.
Intangible fixed assets Intangible assets comprise of purchased goodwill and know-how licences.
Goodwill, being the difference between the price paid for the subsidiary undertakings or businesses acquired and the fair value of their net assets at acquisition, is capitalised on the balance sheet and amortised through the profit and loss account over its useful economic life, being 20 years for the Maunders acquisition in 1998 and six years for the Prowting acquisition in 2002.
