Accounting convention D. Tangible xed assets F. Foreign exchange The accounts are prepared under the Prior to the adoption of FRS15 in the Assets and liabilities denominated historical cost convention, as modied 1999 2000 financial year, properties in foreign currencies are translated by the revaluation of property, were regularly revalued on a cyclical into sterling at the rates of exchange and in accordance with applicable basis.
Since the adoption of FRS15, quoted at the balance sheet date.
the group policy has been not to Trading results are translated into revalue its properties.
Consequently sterling at average rates of exchange B.
Basis of consolidation the transitional provisions of FRS15 for the year.
Day-to-day transactions have been applied and, while previous are recorded in sterling at the The consolidated accounts valuations have been retained, they rates ruling on the date of those incorporate the accounts of the have not been updated.
Currency gains and company and all group undertakings, the last revaluations are given in losses arising from the retranslation together with the groups share of the note 14.
Other xed assets are stated of the opening net assets of overseas net assets and results of joint ventures at cost.
Gross interest costs incurred operations, less those arising from and associates.
These are adjusted, on the nancing of major projects are related currency borrowings to the where appropriate, to conform to capitalised until the time that they extent that they are matched, are group accounting policies.
Apart from are available for use.
recorded as a movement on reserves, the acquisition of Whitbread Group net of tax.
The dierences which PLC by Whitbread PLC in 2000 1, Depreciable xed assets are written arise from translating the results which was accounted for using o on a straight line basis over their of overseas businesses at average merger accounting, acquisitions are estimated useful lives, as follows: rates of exchange, and their assets accounted for under the acquisition Freehold land is not depreciated.
and liabilities at closing rates, are method and any goodwill arising also dealt with in reserves.
All other is capitalised as an intangible xed Freehold buildings are depreciated currency gains and losses are dealt asset.
On disposal of a business, the to their estimated residual values with in the profit and loss account.
profit or loss on disposal is calculated over periods up to 50 years.
after including any goodwill previously Leasehold properties are depreciated G. Financial instruments written o direct to reserves in to their estimated residual values Derivative financial instruments respect of that business.
The results of over the shortest of 50 years, their are used by the group for the companies acquired or disposed of are estimated useful lives and their management of foreign currency included in the profit and loss account remaining lease periods.
Amounts from or up to the date that control Administration and logistics payable or receivable in respect of passes respectively.
As a consolidated furniture, xtures and equipment interest rate swap and interest rate profit and loss account is published, are depreciated over 3 to 30 years.
cap agreements are recognised as a separate profit and loss account of adjustments to the interest expense the parent company is omitted from Retail furniture, xtures and over the period of the contracts.
Gains the group accounts by virtue of the equipment are depreciated over or losses on foreign currency forward exemption granted by section 230 of 4 to 25 years.
and option contracts are recognised the Companies Act 1985.
The carrying values of tangible xed in the profit and loss account when C. Intangible xed assets assets are reviewed for impairment the hedged transaction occurs.
In the if events or changes in circumstances balance sheet, payments made to Goodwill arising on acquisitions indicate that their carrying value may secure a hedge are included with the is capitalised.
It is amortised, on a not be recoverable.
Any impairment hedged item to which they relate.
straight line basis, over its estimated in the value of xed assets below useful economic life up to a maximum Option premiums paid are recognised depreciated historical cost is charged of 20 years.
Goodwill written o in the profit and loss account over to the profit and loss account.
profits against reserves in previous years the life of the contract.
Premiums and and losses on disposal of xed assets has not been reinstated.
discounts arising on financial liabilities reect the dierence between net IT software is amortised, on a straight are amortised over the remaining life selling price and net book value at the line basis over five years.
The carrying values of intangible xed H. Turnover E. Stocks assets are reviewed for impairment Turnover is the value of goods and Stocks are stated at the lower of cost if events or changes in circumstances services sold to third parties as part and net realisable value.
The cost of indicate that their carrying value may of the groups trading activities, after nished goods includes appropriate not be recoverable.
deducting discounts and sales-based overheads.
Cost is calculated on taxes.
the basis of first in, first out and net realisable value is the estimated selling price less any costs of disposal.
PAGE 50 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 5 ACCOUNTING POLICIES I.
Leases Rental payments in respect of operating leases are charged against operating profit on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Lease incentives are charged to operating profit on a straight line basis over the period to the review date on which the rent is first expected to be adjusted to the prevailing market rate.
Pension funding Pension costs are charged to the profit and loss account over the average expected service life of current employees.
Actuarial surpluses and deficits are amortised over the expected remaining service lives of current employees, using the percentage of pensionable salaries method.
Dierences between the amount charged in the profit and loss account and payments made to the schemes are treated as assets or liabilities in the balance sheet.
K. Tax Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing dierences that have originated but not been reversed by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is not recognised when an asset is sold if it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable.
Provisions for deferred tax are not discounted.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
L. Own shares held by the ESOT Own shares held by the ESOT are carried at cost and disclosed within shareholders funds.
M. Comparative amounts Comparative amounts are restated where necessary to conform to current presentation.
