Critical accounting judgments and key sources of estimation uncertainty In accordance with the requirements of International Financial Carrying value of land and work in progress Reporting Standards the Group has detailed below the critical The Groups principal activity is housebuilding and property accounting judgments made in, and the key sources of estimation development.
Due to the nature of this activity much of the uncertainty within these financial statements.
development entered into by the Group is speculative in nature.
Accordingly, the Group has in its balance sheet at 31st December Critical accounting judgments 2005 current assets that are not covered by a forward sale.
In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, which The Groups internal controls are designed to identify any are described in the accounting policies note, management have developments where the carrying value of stock and work in made no individual judgments that have a significant impact upon progress is less than the lower of cost and net realisable value.
the financial statements, apart from those involving estimations, which are dealt with below.
Estimation of costs to complete In order to determine the profit that the Group is able to recognise Key sources of estimation uncertainty on its developments in a specific period, the Group has to allocate The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of the total shared costs of the development between the proportion estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date are discussed below.
completing in the period and the proportion to complete in a future period.
The assessment of the total costs to be incurred Recognition of profit where developments are accounted on a development requires a degree of estimation.
However, Group for under IAS11 Construction Contracts management have established internal controls to review and ensure The Group applies its policy on contract accounting when recognising the appropriateness of estimates made.
revenue and profit on partially completed contracts.
The application of this policy requires judgments to be made in respect of the total Impairment of goodwill expected costs to complete each relevant contract.
The Group has The determination of the value of the impairment of goodwill in place established internal control processes to ensure that the requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating evaluation of costs and revenues are based upon appropriate estimates.
units to which goodwill has been allocated as defined in note 9.
The value in use calculation requires an estimate of the future cash flows expected from these cash generating units including the anticipated growth rate of revenue and costs and requires the determination of a suitable discount rate to calculate the present value of the cash flows.
The carrying amount of goodwill at the balance sheet date was 4.3m after an impairment of 7.3m was recognised during 2005.
Details of the impairment loss calculation are included in note 9.
Impact of Standards and Interpretations in issue but not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRIC4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a lease IFRIC5 Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds IFRIC6 Liabilities arising from participating in a specific market waste electrical and electronic equipment The Directors expect that, with the exception of the additional financial instruments disclosures required by IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will not have any significant impact on the financial statements of the Group.
52 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2005
