Principal accounting policies Company Basis of accounting Financial instruments The separate financial statements of the Company consisting of the Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Balance Sheet, Principal Accounting Policies, notes C1 to C18 and Companys balance sheet when the Company becomes a party note 19 of the Group financial statements are presented as required to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the revaluation of certain Bank borrowings financial instruments and share-based payments, and in accordance Interest bearing bank loans are recorded at amortised cost, being the with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and law.
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
The more important Company accounting policies, which have been Where bank agreements include a legal right of offset for in hand applied consistently, with the exception of the changes in accounting and overdraft balances, and the Company intend to net settle the policy caused by the adoption of new Accounting Standards, are set outstanding position, the offset arrangements are applied to record out below.
Changes in accounting policy Borrowing costs are recorded in the period to which they relate.
Where relevant, the requirements of all new Accounting Standards and pronouncements, whose implementation dates were during the Derivative financial instruments year, have been adopted.
The Company has entered into derivative transactions in the form of swap arrangements to manage the interest rate and currency risks The adoption of the following standards had no significant impact arising from the Companys operations and its sources of finance.
upon these financial statements: FRS22 Earnings per share, The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Companys policies FRS23 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates, FRS24 approved by the Board of Directors.
Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies, FRS25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and FRS28 The swap arrangements are designated as a hedge against changes in Corresponding Amounts.
future cash flows as a result of currency movements.
Gains and losses on the fair value of these swap arrangements are taken to reserves The effects of the adoption of the following standards are set out in note until realised.
On realisation such gains and losses are recognised C1: FRS20 Share-based Payment, FRS21 Events after the Balance in the profit and loss account.
Sheet Date and FRS26 Financial Instruments: Measurement.
Share-based payments Differences in accounting policy between the Company The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain and the consolidated financial statements employees and has applied the requirements of FRS20 Share-based The individual Company financial statements of Wilson Bowden plc Payment.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, FRS20 has are prepared in accordance with applicable Accounting Standards in been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7th November the United Kingdom whereas the consolidated financial statements 2002 that had not vested as at 1st January 2005. of the Wilson Bowden plc Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as endorsed by Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the European Union and applying to periods beginning on or after the date of grant.
The fair value is expensed on a straight line basis 1st January 2005.
As such, due to the different Accounting Standards over the vesting period, based on the Companys estimate of shares applied, there are differences in the accounting polices between the that will eventually vest.
parent Company and the Group.
These differences primarily relate to the treatment of taxation, and the policies applied in the Company Deferred tax are detailed below.
Deferred tax is recognised on all timing differences where the transaction or events that gave rise to an obligation to pay more tax Investments in the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future, have occurred Investments held as fixed or current assets are stated at cost less by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised when provision for any impairment.
it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the Pensions periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively schemes for certain employees.
The Companys contributions enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on to the schemes are charged against profits in the year in which the a non-discounted basis.
74 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2005
