Principal accounting policies Group The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Pensions International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for the first time.
The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension The disclosures required by IFRS1 concerning the transition from schemes for certain employees.
The Groups contributions to UK GAAP to IFRS are given in note 27.
The financial statements the schemes are charged against profits in the year in which the have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the contributions are made.
European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulation.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the fair Basis of accounting value of the consideration over the fair value of the separable The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost identifiable net assets acquired.
basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments and share-based payments.
Goodwill arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and businesses is capitalised as an asset and reviewed for impairment The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of The Groups financial statements consolidate the financial statements the cash-generating units determined on acquisition.
Cash-generating of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
The results of any units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment subsidiaries sold or acquired are included in the Group income at least annually.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating statement up to, or from, the date control passes.
Intra-group sales unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment and profits are eliminated fully on consolidation.
The year ends loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill for all the Companys undertakings are 31st December and all allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata subsidiary undertakings are included in the Groups consolidated on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
On acquisition of a subsidiary, all of the subsidiarys identifiable assets and liabilities existing at the date of acquisition are recorded at their Goodwill arising prior to 1998 and previously written off against fair values reflecting their conditions at that date.
All changes to those reserves as a matter of accounting policy under UK GAAP has not assets and liabilities, and the resulting gains and losses that arise after been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent the Group has gained control of the subsidiary are charged to the profit or loss on disposal.
Contract accounting Jointly controlled operations Revenue is only recognised on a construction contract where the The Group enters into jointly controlled operations as part of its outcome can be estimated reliably.
Revenue and costs are recognised housebuilding and property development activities.
The Groups share by reference to the stage of completion of contract activity at the of profits and losses from its investments in such jointly controlled balance sheet date.
This is normally measured by surveys of work operations are accounted for on a direct basis and are included in the performed to date.
The Groups share of its investments assets and liabilities is accounted for on a directly proportional basis Amounts recoverable on contracts are included in debtors and stated in the consolidated balance sheet.
at cost plus attributable profit less any foreseeable losses.
Payments received on account of contracts are deducted from amounts Revenue recoverable on contracts.
Payments received in excess of amounts Revenue comprises the fair value of consideration received or recoverable are included in trade payables.
receivable for goods and services supplied to customers during the year and the appropriate proportion of revenue from construction Inventories contracts, which is covered by a distinct accounting policy.
IntraInventories, including land held for development and completed group transactions, value added tax and proceeds from the sales of and part-exchanged properties, and residential work in progress are part exchange houses and undeveloped residential land are excluded valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location Revenue from the sale of newly constructed residential properties and condition.
is recognised as the consideration received or receivable on legal completion.
Work in progress on construction contracts is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value less progress payments received Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the and receivable.
principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2005 49 Principal accounting policies Group continued Government grants Deferred taxation Government grants are recognised in the income statement so as Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on to match with related costs that they are intended to compensate.
differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities Grants related to assets are deducted from the carrying amount of in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used the asset.
Grants related to income are deducted from the related in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the expense in the income statement.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax Property, plant and equipment assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated profits will be available against which deductible temporary depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is provided on the recognition other than in a business combination of other assets original cost of assets in equal annual instalments at the following rates: and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Freehold buildings 2% The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Plant, equipment and vehicles 10% to 25% balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer Computers, scaffolding and other assets probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all with short economic lives 20% to 50% or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset is determined as in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
credited directly to reserves, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in reserves.
Leases as lessee Leases are classified as operating leases when the terms of the lease Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally do not substantially transfer all the risks and rewards of ownership enforceable right to set-off current tax assets against current tax to the lessee.
liabilities and when they relate to taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and The annual rentals of operating leases are charged to trading profits liabilities on a net basis.
on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Share-based payments Leases as lessor The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain The Group enters into leasing arrangements with third parties employees and has applied the requirements of IFRS2 Share-based following the completion of constructed developments until the date Payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS2 has of the sale of the development to third parties.
Rental income from been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7th November operating leases is recognised on a straight line basis over the term 2002 that had not vested as at 1st January 2005. of the lease.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at asset and recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Fair value is measured either using Black-Scholes models or Monte Carlo models dependent upon the characteristics Taxation of the scheme.
The expected lives used in the models are adjusted, based The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, deferred tax.
exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The fair value is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based Current taxation on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The tax currently payable is based on the profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement Financial risk management because it excludes items of income or expense that are tax deductible The Groups operations and debt financing expose it to a variety in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable of financial risks that include the effects of changes in debt market or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated prices, foreign currency exchange rates, credit risks, liquidity and using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted interest rates.
The most significant of these to the Group is liquidity by the balance sheet date.
risk and as such there is a regular, detailed system for the reporting and forecasting of cash flows from the operations to Group management so as to ensure that risks are promptly identified and appropriate actions taken by the central treasury function.
50 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2005 Cash and cash equivalents Financial risk management continued Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand In addition, the Group has in place a risk management programme deposits, and other short term highly liquid investments that are that seeks to limit the adverse effects of the other risks on its financial performance by using financial instruments, including readily converted to a known amount of cash and are subject to debt and derivatives, to fix foreign exchange rates and interest an insignificant risk of changes in value.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Trade payables and other payables Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are The Board of Directors is responsible for setting the specific, clearly stated at their nominal value.
Trade payables on extended terms defined guidelines regarding treasury that are applied by the Group.
are recorded at their fair value at the date of acquisition of the asset In addition, the Directors approve and review all facilities and to which they relate.
The discount to nominal value is amortised derivative transactions.
The Group operates a central treasury over the period of the credit term and charged to finance costs.
department to implement the guidelines established by the Board, to whom it reports regularly.
Bank borrowings Interest bearing bank loans are recorded at amortised cost, being a Foreign exchange rate risk the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
The Group has outstanding US dollar denominated debt of $100.0m.
In order to mitigate the foreign exchange rate risks, the Group has Where bank agreements include a legal right of offset for in hand entered into swap arrangements to hedge the cash flow risk related and overdraft balances, and the Group intend to net settle the to future foreign exchange and interest rate movements.
The cash outstanding position, the offset arrangements are applied to record flow hedge provides the Group with certainty as to the income the net position.
statement charge related to this debt.
Borrowing costs are included in the income statement in the period b Interest rate risk to which they relate.
The Group has both interest bearing assets and interest bearing liabilities.
The Group has a policy of maintaining both long term Derivative financial instruments fixed rate funding and medium term floating rate funding so as to Swaps ensure that there is appropriate flexibility for the Groups operational The Group has entered into derivative transactions in the form of requirements.
As detailed in a above, the Group has entered into swap arrangements to manage the interest rate and currency risks swap arrangements to hedge cash flow risks related to interest rate arising from the Groups operations and its sources of finance.
movements on a proportion of its debt.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors as detailed above.
c Credit risk The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with The swap arrangements are designated as a hedge against changes exposure spread over a number of counterparties and customers.
in future cash flows as a result of currency movements.
Gains and Financial instrument counterparties are subject to pre-approval by losses on the fair value of these swap arrangements are taken to the Board of Directors.
The amount of exposure to any individual reserves until realised.
On realisation such gains and losses are counterparty is subject to a limit set by the Directors and is recognised in the income statement.
Equity share receivables d Liquidity risk The Group has entered into agreements whereby it retains a fixed The Group actively maintains a mixture of long term and medium proportion of the equity in a newly constructed residential property term committed facilities that are designed to ensure that the Group until the date of first resale of the property or ten years from the date has sufficient available funds for operations.
At 31st December 2005, of the agreement, whichever is the earlier, when it will receive a fixed the Group had committed facilities of 732.0m and total facilities proportion of the market value of the property.
are deemed to be derivatives, and as such are initially measured at fair value on the date the agreement is entered into and subsequently Financial instruments re-measured at fair value.
The gain or loss on re-measurement is Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups taken to the income statement.
The fair value of the equity share balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual agreements is based upon the market value of the property estimated provisions of the instrument.
on a national basis using national property price reports discounted for the expected time to redemption.
Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2005 51
