Wm MORRISON SUPERMARKETS PLC Accounting policies Accounting period The accounting period of the group ends on the Sunday falling between 29 January and 4 February each year.
Accounting policies The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the groups financial statements.
The estimation techniques relating to depreciation and supplier income have been revised as detailed below.
Further revisions to various, individually immaterial, accounting practices have been made in order to establish the most appropriate practices in the circumstances of the enlarged group: as a consequence of these further revisions profits for the period have benefited by 42m.
Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
The consolidated financial statements of the company and its subsidiary undertakings include all results for the period attributable to members of the company.
The financial periods of all the undertakings in the group are co-terminus.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the company and its subsidiary undertakings made up to 30 January 2005.
The acquisition method of accounting has been adopted.
Under this method, the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the year are included in the consolidated profit and loss account from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
A joint venture is an undertaking in which the group has a long term interest and over which it exercises joint control.
The groups share of the profits less losses of joint ventures is included in the consolidated profit and loss account and its interest in their net assets is included in investments in the consolidated balance sheet.
In the companys financial statements, investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less amounts written off.
Turnover Turnover represents gross takings from ordinary activities excluding value added tax and intra group transactions net of staff discounts, coupons and the free element of multi-save transactions.
Depreciation The policy of the group is to provide depreciation at rates which are calculated to write off the cost less residual value of tangible xed assets by equal annual instalments.
Following the acquisition of Safeway Limited formerly Safeway plc, the group has harmonised its depreciation rates resulting in the following changes: New rate Previous rate Group Morrisons Safeway Freehold land 0% 0% 0% Freehold and long lease buildings 25% 2% - 10% 25% Short lease land and buildings Over lease period Over lease period Over lease period Plant, equipment and vehicles 15% - 33% 15% - 33% 125% - 25% Had the groups previous rates been applied the depreciation charge in the current period would have been 35m higher, and the net book value of xed assets an equivalent amount lower.
In addition to the systematic depreciation, xed assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Capitalisation of interest The cost of nancing property developments prior to their opening date is included in the cost of the project.
Leased assets i As lessee Tangible xed assets operated under the terms of finance leases are capitalised at the net present value of the minimum lease payments and depreciated in the same manner as owned assets or over the term of the lease if shorter.
Finance charges are charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the lease.
Payments made under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
ii As lessor Assets held for use in operating leases are recorded as xed assets and depreciated over their useful lives.
Rental income from operating leases is credited to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
26 Wm MORRISON SUPERMARKETS PLC Accounting policies continued Goodwill and negative goodwill Purchased goodwill representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the separable net assets acquired arising on consolidation is capitalised.
Positive goodwill is amortised to nil over its estimated useful life.
Negative goodwill arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions since 1 January 1998 is included in xed assets and released to the profit and loss account in the periods in which the fair values of the non-monetary assets purchased in the same acquisitions are recovered, whether through depreciation or sale.
On the subsequent disposal or termination of a business, the profit or loss on disposal or termination is calculated after charging the unamortised amount of any related goodwill.
Income from suppliers Supplier incentives, rebates and discounts are recognised when all performance criteria have been met.
All such payments are offset against cost of goods sold.
Following the renegotiation of the majority of the supply contracts in the current period, the group has revised its practice with regard to the interpretation of performance criteria, principally associated with the expectation of achieving volume targets for incomplete deals.
The accounting estimation revision has resulted in some acceleration in the recognition of supplier income giving a benefit to operating profit of 47m in the current year.
Stocks Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value and comprise goods for resale.
Pension costs Retirement benets to eligible employees are provided by a dened benefit scheme which is funded by contributions from the group and employees and its assets are held in a separate trustee administered fund.
Pension scheme assets are measured using market values.
Pension scheme liabilities are measured using a projected unit method and discounted at the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
The pension scheme surplus to the extent that it is recoverable or deficit is recognised in full.
The movement in the surplus or deficit is split between operating charges, finance items and, in the statement of total recognised gains and losses, actuarial gains and losses.
Contributions in respect of the stakeholder pension scheme are charged to the profit and loss account as they arise.
Net debt funds Cash, for the purpose of the cash ow statement, comprises cash in hand and deposits repayable on demand, less overdrafts payable on demand.
Overdrafts are stated net of uncleared banking items mainly cheques in the course of clearing.
Liquid resources are current asset investments which are disposable without curtailing or disrupting the business and are either readily convertible into known amounts of cash at or close to their carrying values or traded in an active market.
Liquid resources comprise term deposits of less than one year other than cash and investments in money market managed funds.
Deferred taxation Full provision is made without discounting for deferred taxation, except as otherwise required by FRS 19.
Own shares held Own shares held are valued at cost and are deducted from equity.
Any profit or loss on disposal is taken directly to reserves.
The shares do not participate in distributions.
Financial instruments The derivative financial instruments used by the group are interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps.
Interest payments or receipts arising from derivative instruments are included within net interest payable.
Any premium or discount is amortised over the life of the instrument.
