Wm MORRISON SUPERMARKETS PLC Notice of meeting THE SIXTY FIFTH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of the company will be held at the Cedar Court Hotel, Mayo Avenue, Bradford, West Yorkshire on Thursday 26 May 2005 at 11.00 am for the following purposes: 1 To receive and consider the directors report and audited financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 30 January 2005.
2 To declare a final dividend of 3075p per share payable on 31 May 2005 to ordinary shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 29 April 2005.
3 To re-elect D R Hutchinson as a director.
4 To re-elect K D Morrison as a director.
5 To re-elect D Jones as a director.
6 To approve the directors remuneration report for the 52 weeks ended 30 January 2005.
7 To consider and, if thought t, to pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution: To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the company to hold ofce from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the company at remuneration to be xed by the directors.
8 To consider and, if thought t, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution: That the company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases as dened in Section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act on the London Stock Exchange 1 of ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the company ordinary shares and or 5 4% cumulative redeemable convertible preference shares of 1 each in the capital of the company convertible preference shares where such purchase is, in the opinion of the directors, in the best interests of the company at the time of any purchase provided that: i the maximum aggregate numbers of ordinary shares and convertible preference shares hereby authorised to be purchased are 151,900,000 ordinary shares and 50,379 convertible preference shares representing approximately 57% and 10% respectively of the issued share capital of each class of shares at the date of this notice: ii the minimum prices which may be paid for the ordinary shares and the convertible preference shares are their respective par values from time to time and the maximum prices which may be paid for the ordinary shares and the convertible preference shares respectively are amounts equal to 5% above the average of the middle-market quotations for such shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the 5 business days before the purchase is made: iii the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting: and iv the company may make a contract to purchase its own shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of its own shares in pursuance of such contract.
9 To consider and, if thought t, to pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution: That for the purposes of the authority conferred by Article 7 2 of the companys articles of association authority to allot relevant securities the prescribed period shall be from the date of passing of this resolution until 30 June 2006 or, if earlier, the expiry of the next annual general meeting of the company and the Section 80 amount shall be 80,000,000 representing approximately 30.1% of the issued ordinary share capital of the company at 23 March 2005.
4 Wm MORRISON SUPERMARKETS PLC Notice of meeting continued 10 To consider and, if thought t, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution: That for the purposes of the power conferred by Article 7 3 of the companys articles of association power to allot equity securities for cash the prescribed period shall be from the date of passing of this resolution until 30 June 2006 or, if earlier, the expiry of the next annual general meeting of the company and the Section 89 amount shall be 13,292,227 representing 5% of the issued ordinary share capital at 23 March 2005 and that the directors may in addition during the prescribed period allot equity securities for cash as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to such allotment up to the amount required in connection with the exercise of the rights of conversion attached to the convertible preference shares.
Registered Ofce By order of the board Hilmore House JONATHAN BURKE Thornton Road Secretary Bradford BD8 9AX 23 March 2005 Notes 1 If you are in any doubt about the action you should take, you should immediately consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or transferred all of your registered holding of ordinary shares or convertible preference shares in the company, please pass this document and the accompanying form of proxy to the stockbroker, bank manager or other agent through whom the sale was effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
2 A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the company.
To be valid the form of proxy must be completed and lodged with the registrars of the company not later than 11.00 am on 24 May 2005.
A proxy should either be submitted by post on the enclosed form of proxy or via the internet at www.
com where full instructions are given.
If you choose to appoint a proxy electronically you will need your unique investor code which is printed on the form of proxy notes section.
3 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic appointment service may do so for the annual general meeting and any adjournment s thereof by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message CREST proxy instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instructions given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent Capita Registrars ID RA10 by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of annual general meeting Note 2.
For this purpose, the time of receipt shall be taken as the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST applications host from which the companys agent Capita Registrars is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST proxy instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s to procure his her CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as is necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by a particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The company may treat as invalid a CREST proxy instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 of the Uncertied Securities Regulations 2001.
4 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001, the company species that in order to have the right to attend and vote at the meeting and also for the purpose of calculating how many votes a person entitled to attend and vote may cast, a person must be entered on the register of holders of the ordinary shares of the company by no later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the meeting.
Changes to entries on the register after this time will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
5 The total issued share capital of the company at the date of this notice was 265,844,550 in ordinary shares of 10p each and 503,797 1 in 5 4% cumulative redeemable convertible preference shares of 1 each.
6 Dividend warrants will be posted on 31 May 2005 to those ordinary shareholders registered at the close of business on 29 April 2005.
Participants in the dividend reinvestment plan will receive their statements and if applicable share certicates by 15 June 2005.
7 Details of the directors remuneration and other benets are contained in the directors remuneration report and financial statements.
The register of directors interests, a statement of all transactions of each director in the shares of the company during the previous twelve months, copies of the directors service contracts, appointment letters and the standard terms of employment will be available for inspection at the annual general meeting and at the registered ofce of the company during normal business hours.
