qxd 6 10 05 11:35 pm Page 100 100 Published information Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Published information Published information If you would like to receive a copy of the Annual Report in an appropriate alternative format, such as Braille or an audio version on CD, please contact the Group Company Secretariat on 0118 929 8700.
Further copies of the Annual Report and the 2005 Form 20-F may be obtained from the Corporate Communications Department, Wolseley plc, Parkview 1220, Arlington Business Park, Theale, Reading RG7 4GA.
Company information may also be viewed on the Companys website at www.
This Annual Report and Accounts is also available in different formats depending on your requirements: braille audio in CD format WO40004 Covers 7 10 05 12:13 am Page 2 Wolseley is the worlds number one distributor of heating and plumbing products to the professional market and a leading supplier of building materials Across two continents we are the trusted partner of contractors, construction companies, industry and governments: supplying them with the materials they need for building, remodelling and repair work.
They rely on us for their boilers and their flues, their pipes and their air-conditioning units, their timber and their bricks and much more besides.
By providing the products and services they need, when and where they need them, at competitive prices, we play a key role in helping our customers.
Certain statements included in this Annual Report and Accounts may be forward-looking and may and often do involve risks, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, projections relating to results of operations and financial conditions and the Companys plans and objectives for future operations including, without limitation, discussions of the Companys business and financial plans, expected future revenues and expenditures, investments and disposals, risks associated with changes in economic conditions, the strength of the plumbing and heating and building materials market in North America and Europe, fluctuations in product prices and changes in exchange and interest rates.
All forward-looking statements in this respect are based upon information known to the Company on the date of this Report.
Accordingly, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only at their respective dates.
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
It is not reasonably possible to itemise all of the many factors and events that could cause the Companys forward-looking statements to be incorrect or that could otherwise have a material adverse effect on the future operations or results of the Company.
Designed and produced by 35 London Photography: Andy Wilson and Davy Jones Printed by St Ives Westerham Press This report is printed on Hello Silk paper and cover board, with Revive Uncoated used in the financial section.
Hello Silk is made from virgin wood fibre from sawmill residues, forest thinnings and sustainable forests in Europe.
Revive Uncoated is made from 80% fide-inked post-consumer waste and 20% virgin wood fibre from sustainable forests.
Both products are fully biodegradable and recyclable and produced in mills which hold ISO 9002 and ISO 14001 accreditation.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 WO40004 Covers 7 10 05 11:20 am Page 1 Wolseley plc Parkview 1220 Arlington Business Park Theale Reading RG7 4GA United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 118 929 8700 Fax: 44 0 118 929 8701 Registration No.
com SUSTAINING GROWTH ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
