WO40004 Wolseley R&A 46-66. qxd 6 10 05 11:47 pm Page 65 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Accounting policies 65 Accounting policies Year ended 31 July 2005 Basis of accounting Goodwill These consolidated financial statements are prepared under the historical Goodwill arises when the cost of acquiring subsidiary undertakings and cost convention and in accordance with applicable UK accounting businesses exceeds the fair value attributed to the net assets acquired.
The principal accounting policies, as set out below, have Prior to 1 August 1998, goodwill arising on consolidation and purchased been applied consistently throughout the year.
goodwill was written off to reserves.
Following publication of FRS 10, a revised policy for accounting for goodwill was adopted with effect from Basis of consolidation 1 August 1998.
Goodwill arising from acquisitions completed on or after The Group accounts include the results of the parent Company and its that date is capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis over a subsidiary undertakings drawn up to 31 July 2005. period of not more than 20 years.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 August 1998 has not been reinstated on the balance sheet.
The trading results of businesses acquired, sold or discontinued during the year are included in profit on ordinary activities from the date of The net assets of businesses acquired are incorporated in the consolidated effective acquisition or up to the date of sale or discontinuance, unless accounts at their fair value to the Group.
Fair value adjustments principally provision therefore has been made in earlier years.
relate to adjustments necessary to bring the accounting policies of acquired businesses into line with those of the Wolseley Group but may Foreign currencies also include other adjustments necessary to restate assets and liabilities The trading results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
All businesses acquired are into sterling using average rates of exchange ruling during the relevant consolidated using the acquisition method of accounting.
Turnover The balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated Turnover is the amount receivable for the provision of goods and services into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at 31 July.
Exchange falling within the Group's ordinary activities, excluding intra-Group sales, differences arising between the translation into sterling of the net assets estimated and actual sales returns, trade and early settlement discounts, of these subsidiary undertakings at rates ruling at the beginning and end value added tax and similar sales taxes.
of the year are dealt with through reserves as are exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings raised to finance overseas assets.
Turnover from the provision of goods is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership of goods have been transferred to the customer.
Exchange differences on financial instruments entered into for foreign The risks and rewards of ownership of goods are deemed to have currency net assets hedging purposes are dealt with through reserves.
been transferred when the goods are shipped to, or are picked up by, the customer.
The cost of the Companys investments in overseas subsidiary undertakings is translated into sterling at the rate ruling at the date Turnover from services, other than those that arise from construction of investment.
service contracts see below, are recognised when the service provided to the customer has been completed.
All other foreign currency assets and liabilities of the Company and its United Kingdom subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling at Turnover in respect of construction service contracts, where the Group the rate ruling at 31 July except in those instances where forward cover is providing framing lumber installation services to residential property has been arranged, in which case this forward rate is used.
companies, is recognised using the percentage of completion method, with the percentage complete being determined by comparing the Foreign currency transactions during the year are translated into sterling percentage of costs incurred to date with the estimated total costs of the at the rate of exchange ruling on the date of the transaction except when contract.
Losses on these contracts, if any, are recognised in the period forward exchange contracts are in place, when the forward contract rate when such losses become probable and can be reasonably estimated.
Any exchange differences are dealt with through the profit and loss account.
Turnover from the provision of goods and all services is only recognised when the amounts to be recognised are fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured.
WO40004 Wolseley R&A 46-66. qxd 6 10 05 11:47 pm Page 66 66 Accounting policies Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Accounting policies continued Year ended 31 July 2005 Leased assets Taxation Where fixed assets are financed by leasing agreements which give rights Provision is made for deferred taxation in so far as a liability or asset has approximating to ownership, the assets are treated as if they had been arisen as a result of transactions that had occurred by the balance sheet purchased and the capital element of the leasing commitments is included date and have given rise to an obligation to pay more tax in the future, or in borrowings.
The rentals payable are apportioned between interest, the right to pay less tax in the future.
An asset has not been recognised to which is charged to the profit and loss account, and capital, which the extent that the transfer of economic benefits in the future is uncertain.
The cost of operating leases is Deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised have not been discounted.
charged on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Provision is made for UK or foreign taxation arising on the distribution to Costs in respect of computer systems the UK of retained profits of overseas subsidiary undertakings where Costs in respect of developing and implementing significant computer dividends have been recognised as receivable.
systems are capitalised and amortised over their estimated useful lives of typically 3 to 5 years.
Costs include: computer and network hardware: Derivatives and financial instruments software licences: consulting costs attributable to the development, design Financial instruments, in particular, interest rate swaps and currency and implementation of the system: and internal costs directly attributable swaps, are used to manage the financial risks arising from the business to the development, design and implementation of the system.
Costs in activities of the Group and the financing of those activities.
There is no respect of training and data conversion are expensed as incurred.
trading activity in financial instruments.
A discussion of how the financial risks are managed is included in the operating and financial review on Depreciation pages 33 to 35.
Financial instruments are accounted for as follows: Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets except freehold land Interest rate swaps are used to hedge the Groups exposure to mainly on a straight line basis to write off the cost of those assets, less movements in interest rates.
The interest payable or receivable on their residual values, over their estimated useful lives.
The principal rates such swaps is accrued in the same way as interest arising on deposits of depreciation are: freehold buildings and long leaseholds, 2-3%: short or borrowings.
Interest rate swaps are not revalued to fair value prior leaseholds, over the term of the lease: plant and machinery, 10-15%: to maturity.
fixtures and fittings, 15%: computers, 20-100% and motor vehicles, 25%.
Cross-currency interest rate swaps currency swaps are used to hedge foreign currency assets and borrowings.
The future currency exchange Real property awaiting disposal within such contracts is revalued to the rate of exchange at the balance Real property awaiting disposal is transferred to current assets at the sheet date and any unrealised gain or loss is matched with that on the lower of book written down value and estimated net realisable value.
underlying asset or liability in reserves.
The interest coupon on such Depreciation is not applied to real property awaiting disposal, but the swaps is accrued in the same way as that on borrowings and deposits.
carrying value is reviewed annually and written down through the profit and loss account to current estimated net realisable value if lower.
Pensions and post retirement benefits The expected costs of providing retirement pensions under defined benefit Stocks plans and other post retirement benefits are charged to the profit and loss Stocks are valued at the lower of Group cost and net realisable value, due account over the periods benefiting from the employees services in allowance being made for obsolete or slow moving items.
Raw materials, accordance with the recommendations of independent qualified actuaries.
bought out components and goods purchased for resale are stated at Variations from expected cost are normally spread over the average cost on a first in, first out basis.
remaining service lives of current employees.
Investments Contributions to defined contribution pension plans and other post Fixed asset investments are recorded at cost less provision for impairment.
retirement benefits are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
