Operating& financial review New corporate structure Future prospects Following approval by share owners at an Extraordinary Including associates, the Group had over 92,000 full-time General Meeting on 26 September 2005, and after obtaining people in over 2,000 ofces in 106 countries at the year end.
Court approval, the Groups corporate structure was changed It services over 300 of the Fortune Global 500 companies, in October 2005.
This primarily involved the introduction over one-half of NASDAQ 100, over 30 of the Fortune of a new parent undertaking in the UK.
This reorganisation e-50, and over 390 national or multinational clients in three resulted in the creation of more than 5 billion of additional or more disciplines.
More than 270 clients are served in distributable reserves, which the Board considers necessary four disciplines and these clients account for around 60% to cater for likely requirements for dividends and share of Group revenues.
The Group also works with nearly repurchases in the medium to long term.
220 clients in six or more countries.
These statistics reect the increasing opportunities Pensions funding for developing client relationships between activities nationally, internationally and by function.
The Group estimates that well over 35% of new assignments in the The Groups pension deficit was 231.4 million as at year were generated through the joint development of 31 December 2005, compared to 202.3 million as at 31 December 2004.
The pension deficit increase is due opportunities by two or more Group companies.
New to increases in North America and Continental Europe.
integration mechanisms, sensitive to global and local These increases are principally due to newly acquired opportunities, including WPP Global Client Leaders and unfunded plans through the acquisition of Grey and the Country Managers, continue to be developed.
There is an reclassication of various existing unfunded arrangements increasing number of major client creative and integration from dened contribution to dened benefit provision opportunities at a Group level.
following a reassessment of the terms of these arrangements The world economy continued to grow in 2005, in 2005.
Also, in the UK, the discount rate decreased from after the recovery in 2003 and 2004, driven by the US, 5.3% to 4.7% due to the lower yields available on highAsia Pacific, Latin America, the Middle East, Russia quality UK corporate debt.
As a result, your Company has Most of the Groups pension scheme assets are performed at record levels.
While like-for-like revenues held by its schemes in the UK and North America.
In the have grown beyond market expectations, like-for-like UK, the forecasted weighted average return on assets average headcount has grown less.
decreased from 5.7% as at 31 December 2004 to 5.2% Following this productivity improvement, the as at 31 December 2005, and in North America, the Groups margins at both the preand post-incentive levels forecasted weighted average return decreased from 6.9% have improved signicantly.
In addition, given improved to 6.7%, principally due to decreases in expected rates levels of operating profit and margin, incentive pools and of return on corporate bonds.
variable staff costs are now at record levels.
This will improve Contributions to funded schemes are determined operational gearing and exibility in 2006 and beyond.
in line with local conditions and practices.
Certain As usual, the budgets for 2006 have been prepared contributions in respect of unfunded schemes are paid as on a prudent basis, largely excluding new business, they fall due.
Our advisors indicate that further average particularly in advertising and media investment cash contributions of approximately 11-12 million per management.
They predict improvements in like-for-like annum would be necessary to fully fund all funded pension revenues in the range of 4%, with balanced growth in schemes over the remaining expected funding period.
the first and second half of the year.
They also indicate marketing services revenues growing faster than advertising and media investment management.
In the first quarter of 2006 reported revenues rose by over 23%.
Constant currency revenues were up 18%.
Currency uctuations accounted for just over 5% of the Groups revenue growth in the first quarter, principally due to the strength of the US dollar against sterling.
On a like-for-like basis, excluding acquisitions and currency uctuations, revenues were up almost 5%.
Annual Report 2005 Operating and financial review 141 Operating& financial review Net new business billings of 1.3 billion $2.3 billion In the long term, the outlook appears very favourable.
were won during the first quarter of 2006.
This marks the Overcapacity of production in most sectors and the shortage highest net new business won by the Group for a first quarter.
of human capital, the developments in new technologies and Net debt at 31 March 2006 was 1,216 million, media, the growth in importance of internal communications, compared with 1,261 million at 31 March 2005 at constant the continued strength of the US economy and the need to exchange rates.
Average net debt in the first quarter of 2006 inuence distribution, underpin the need for our clients to was 1,043 million compared to 828 million in 2005, at continue to differentiate their products and services both 2006 exchange rates.
In the 12 months to 31 March 2006, tangibly and intangibly.
Moreover, the growth of the BRICs the Groups free cash ow was 745 million.
Over the same Brazil, Russia, India and China economies, will add period, the Groups capital expenditure, acquisitions, share significant opportunities in Asia Pacic, Latin America, repurchases and dividends were 783 million.
Africa and the Middle East and Central and Eastern Europe.
Worldwide economic conditions seem set to continue Advertising and marketing services expenditure as a to show steady growth in 2006, although concerns remain proportion of gross national products should resume its over the Middle East, oil and commodity prices and the twin growth and bust through the cyclical high established deficits of the US economy.
This years prospects, therefore, in 2000. look okay, with worldwide advertising and marketing services Given these short-term and long-term trends, your spending set to rise by at least 4% with your company Company has three strategic priorities.
In the short term, expected to grow 4-5% and therefore increasing share.
having weathered the recession, to capitalise on the 2004 Although growth in the world economy continues to be led and 2005 up-turn: in the medium term, to continue to by Asia Pacic, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East, successfully integrate acquired companies: and nally, in Russia and the CIS countries, even Western Continental the long term, to continue to develop its businesses in Europe may continue the improvement seen in the second the faster-growing geographical areas of Asia Pacic, half of 2005, although the UK looks soft.
Latin America, Africa and the Middle East, and Central 2006 should benefit from the mini-quadrennial impact and Eastern Europe, and in the faster-growing functional of the mid-term US Congressional elections, the FIFA World areas of marketing services, particularly direct, internet, Cup and the Turin Winter Olympics.
2007 should also benefit from the build-up to the Incentive plans for 2006 will again focus more on US Presidential Elections and the Beijing Olympics in 2008, operating profit growth than historically, in order to stimulate which, as a maxi-quadrennial year, should be a very strong top-line growth, although objectives will continue to include one, buoyed by those events plus heavy US political operating margin improvement, improvement in staff costs advertising and the European Football Championships.
to revenue ratios and qualitative Group objectives, including In the short term, growth in advertising and marketing co-ordination, talent management and succession planning.
services expenditure may remain low to medium single-digit territory, given the low inflationary environment, Paul Richardson concentrating distribution and consequent lack of pricing Group finance director power.
In this climate, procurement pressure continues but not in new media and the significant proportion of fee remuneration dampens revenue growth on cyclical upturns and moderates on downturns.
However, there continue to be significant opportunities in the area of outsourcing clients marketing activities, consolidating client budgets and capitalising on competitive weaknesses.
In addition, spending amongst the packaged goods, pharmaceutical, oil and energy, government the government continues to be one of the largest advertisers in the UK market and price-value retail sectors, which remained relatively resilient in the recession of 2001 and 2002, have been buttressed by increased activity in previously recession-affected sectors like technology, financial services, media and entertainment and telecommunications.
Annual Report 2005 142 Operating and financial review Operating& financial review In connection with the provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 the Reform Act, the Company may include forward-looking statements as dened in the Reform Act in oral or written public statements issued by or on behalf of the Company.
These forward-looking statements may include, among other things, plans, objectives, projections and anticipated future economic performance based on assumptions and the like that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
As such, actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements.
Important factors which may cause actual results to differ include but are not limited to: the unanticipated loss of a material client or key personnel, delays or reductions in client advertising budgets, shifts in industry rates of compensation, government compliance costs or litigation, natural disasters or acts of terrorism, the Companys exposure to changes in the values of other major currencies because a substantial portion of its revenues are derived and costs incurred outside of the UK and the overall level of economic activity in the Companys major markets which varies depending on, among other things, regional, national and international political and economic conditions and government regulations in the worlds advertising markets.
In light of these and other uncertainties, the forwardlooking statements included in this document should not be regarded as a representation by the Company that the Companys plans and objectives will be achieved.
Annual Report 2005 Operating and financial review 143 Our 2005 financial statements Our 2005 financial statements Annual Report 2005 144 Our 2005 financial statements
