How were rewarded Compensation committee report on behalf of the Board Introduction A review of the contractual arrangements for the Group chief executive and monitoring the vesting of awards under This report is made by the Board, prepared on its behalf a number of his incentive plans.
and for its approval by the Compensation committee.
Effecting the transfer of existing incentive arrangements This will be my last report as chairman of the committee to the new parent holding company following the Groups and I am pleased that Jeffrey Rosen will take over as chairman reorganisation.
following the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Renewing the WPP Executive Stock Option Plan and the The report provides the Companys statement of WPP Worldwide Ownership Plan.
how it has applied the principles of good governance set out in the Combined Code and Schedule 7A to the Remit of the Compensation committee Companies Act in respect of compensation matters.
As in previous years, additional information on executive Under its terms of reference the committee is responsible for: remuneration, based on a US-proxy style disclosure has Reviewing and approving the remuneration and terms been added at the end of this report.
of employment including any termination arrangements The report of the auditors on the financial of executive directors and senior executives of the statements set out on pages 181 and 182 confirms that the Company and of directors and senior executives of the scope of their report covers, where required, the disclosures operating companies.
contained in or referred to in this report that are specified Reviewing the incentive policy and compensation plans.
for their audit by the UK Listing Authority and under the Monitoring the vesting of awards under all incentive Companies Act.
plans including the Renewed Leadership Equity Acquisition Details of each individual directors remuneration Plan Renewed LEAP.
and of their beneficial holdings of the Companys shares Reviewing systems implemented throughout the Group and share awards are set out on pages 125 and 126. to deal with matters such as employee harassment and The Company is required to submit the discrimination.
Compensation committee report for share owner approval Appointing and reviewing the performance of external at the Annual General Meeting AGM convened for advisors to the committee and to the Company in relation 27 June 2006 and the appropriate resolution is set out as to executive remuneration and human resource activities.
resolution 19 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting accompanying the Annual Report and Accounts.
Composition of the Compensation committee 2005 highlights During 2005, the Compensation committee comprised the following who took decisions in respect of the year: During the year the most significant issues addressed by S W Morten chairman of the committee : the committee were: P Lader: A thorough review of all executive compensation C Mackenzie.
plans, their effectiveness and relevance to the Groups Esther Dyson was appointed a member of the business needs.
committee on 4 May 2006 and Jeffrey Rosen will replace Changes to the incentive packages for the chief financial Bud Morten as chairman of the committee following the officer and the director of strategy.
Annual Report 2005 116 How were rewarded How were rewarded Annual Report 2005 How were rewarded 117
