Our 2005 financial statements Accounting policies he consolidated financial statements of WPP Share-based payments Group plc the Group for the year ended 31 December 2005 have been prepared in IFRS 2 Share-based payments applies to all share-based accordance with International Financial payments granted since 7 November 2002, but the Group Reporting Standards, incorporating International has elected for full retrospective restatement as this better Accounting Standards IFRS as issued by the represents the ongoing charge to the income statement.
The consolidated financial statements have also been prepared in accordance Basis of accounting and presentation of with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union EU and financial statements therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The disclosures required by IFRS 1 First-time The financial statements are prepared under the historical Adoption of International Financial Reporting concerning cost convention, except for the revaluation of certain the transition from applicable accounting standards in the financial instruments.
United Kingdom UK GAAP to IFRS are shown on pages 172 to 176.
Basis of consolidation A summary of the Groups principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently throughout In October 2005, pursuant to a Scheme of Arrangement the year is set out below.
under s425 of the Companies Act 1985, a new parent company was introduced which is now called WPP Group IFRS 1 exemptions plc Newco.
The previous parent company has been renamed and re-registered as WPP 2005 Limited Oldco.
The introduction of a new holding company IFRS 1 allows a number of exemptions from the full constitutes a Group reconstruction and has been accounted requirements of IFRS for those companies adopting IFRS for the first time.
The Group has taken advantage of certain for using merger accounting principles.
Therefore, although of these exemptions as follows: the Group reconstruction did not become effective until October 2005, the consolidated financial statements of Financial instruments WPP Group plc are presented as if Newco and Oldco had always been part of the same Group.
Accordingly, the results of the Group for the entire year ended 31 December The Group has taken advantage of the exemption available 2005 are shown in the consolidated income statement and under IFRS 1 not to apply IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IAS 32 Financial the comparative gures for the year ended 31 December Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation in respect of the 2004 are also prepared on this basis.
Earnings per share year ended 31 December 2004.
UK GAAP has continued are unaffected by the reorganisation.
to be applied in accounting for financial instruments in The consolidated financial statements include the this period.
The Group has adopted IAS 39 and IAS 32 results of Newco and all its subsidiary undertakings made with effect from 1 January 2005 and consequently restated up to the same accounting date.
The results of subsidiary the balance sheet at that date in accordance with the undertakings acquired or disposed of during the period are requirements of these standards, which generally means included or excluded from the income statement from the a recognition of financial instruments at fair value.
effective date of acquisition or disposal.
Business combinations Goodwill and other intangible assets The Group has elected not to apply IFRS 3 Business Intangible assets comprise goodwill, certain acquired separable combinations retrospectively to business combinations corporate brand names, customer relationships and capitalised that completed prior to 1 January 2004.
However, the computer software not integral to a related item of hardware.
Group took the option to apply IAS 21 the effects of Goodwill represents the excess of fair value changes in foreign exchange rates retrospectively to fair attributed to investments in businesses or subsidiary value adjustments and goodwill arising in all business undertakings over the fair value of the underlying net combinations that occurred before the date of transition assets at the date of their acquisition.
on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill Annual Report 2005 Our 2005 financial statements 145 Our 2005 financial statements written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has Property, plant and equipment not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Property, plant and equipment are shown at cost less Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken by accumulated depreciation and any provision for comparing the carrying value of goodwill to the net present impairment with the exception of freehold land which is not value of future cashows derived from the underlying depreciated.
The Group assesses the carrying value of its assets using a projection period of up to five years for property, plant and equipment to determine if any impairment each cash-generating unit.
After the projection period a has occurred.
Where this indicates that an asset may be steady or declining growth rate representing an appropriate impaired, the Group applies the requirements of IAS 36 in long-term growth rate for the industry is applied.
Any assessing the carrying amount of the assets.
This process impairment is recognised immediately as an expense and includes comparing its recoverable amount with its carrying is not subsequently reversed.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write Corporate brand names acquired as part of off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset on a acquisitions of business are capitalised separately from straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, as follows: goodwill as intangible assets if their value can be measured Freehold buildings 50 years reliably on initial recognition and it is probable that the Leasehold land and buildings over the term of the lease expected future economic benets that are attributable to or life of the asset, if shorter the asset will ow to the Group.
Fixtures, ttings and equipment 3-10 years Certain corporate brands of the Group are Computer equipment 3 years considered to have an indefinite economic life because of the institutional nature of the corporate brand names, Interests in associates their proven ability to maintain market leadership and profitable operations over long periods of time and the The Groups share of the profits less losses of associate Groups commitment to develop and enhance their value.
undertakings net of tax, interest and minority interest is The carrying value of these intangible assets will continue to included in the consolidated income statement and the be reviewed at least annually for impairment and adjusted Groups share of net assets is shown within interests in to the recoverable amount if required.
associates in the consolidated balance sheet.
The Groups Amortisation is provided at rates calculated to write share of the profits less losses and net assets is based on off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset on a current information produced by the undertakings, adjusted straight-line basis over its estimated useful life as follows: to conform with the accounting policies of the Group.
Acquired intangibles The Group assesses the carrying value of its Brand names 10-20 years associate undertakings to determine if any impairment Customer related intangibles 3-10 years has occurred.
Where this indicates that an investment may Other proprietary tools 3-10 years be impaired, the Group applies the requirements of IAS 36 Other in assessing the carrying amount of the investment.
Other including capitalised computer software 3-5 years This process includes comparing its recoverable amount with its carrying value.
Contingent consideration The Group accounts for joint venture investments under the equity method which is consistent with the Groups treatment of associates.
Future anticipated payments to vendors in respect of earnouts are based on the directors best estimates of future obligations, which are dependent on the future performance Other investments of the interests acquired and assume the operating companies improve profits in line with directors estimates.
Other investments are designated as available for sale and When earnouts are to be settled by cash consideration, the are shown at fair value with any movements in fair value fair value of the consideration is obtained by discounting taken to equity.
to present value the amounts expected to be payable in the future.
The resulting interest charge is included within Inventories interest payable and similar charges.
Work in progress is valued at cost or on a percentage of completion basis where appropriate.
Cost includes outlays incurred on behalf of clients and an appropriate proportion of directly attributable costs and overheads on incomplete assignments.
Provision is made for irrecoverable costs where appropriate.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Annual Report 2005 146 Our 2005 financial statements Our 2005 financial statements Trade receivables Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related Trade receivables are stated net of provisions for bad and to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not doubtful debts.
carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported Financial instruments in the income statement.
Liabilities in respect of option agreements The Group has taken advantage of the exemption available under IFRS 1 not to apply IAS 32 and IAS 39 in respect of the year ended 31 December 2004.
UK GAAP has continued Option agreements that allow the Groups equity partners to be applied to financial instruments in this period.
to require the Group to purchase the minority interest are The accounting policy under UK GAAP for the year treated as derivatives over equity instruments and are ended 31 December 2004 is disclosed in note 27. recorded in the balance sheet at fair value and the valuation The accounting policy under IFRS for the period is remeasured at each period end.
Fair value is based on the commencing 1 January 2005 is as follows: present value of expected cash outows and the movement in the fair value is recognised as income or expense within Foreign currency and interest rate hedging finance costs in the income statement.
Derecognition of financial liabilities The Groups policy on Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Rate Management sets out the instruments and methods available to hedge interest and currency risk exposures and In accordance with IAS 39, a financial liability of the Group the control procedures in place to ensure effectiveness.
is only released to the income statement when the underlying The Group uses derivative financial instruments to legal obligation is extinguished.
reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate movements.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative Convertible debt financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Changes in the value of derivative financial Convertible debt is assessed according to the substance of instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of the contractual arrangements and is classied into liability future cash ows are recognised directly in equity and the and equity elements on the basis of the initial fair value of ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income the liability element.
The difference between this gure and statement.
If the cash ow hedge of a rm commitment or the cash received is classied as equity.
forecasted transaction results in the recognition of an asset The income statement charge for the finance cost or a liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is will be spread evenly over the term of the bonds so that at recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative redemption the liability equals the redemption value.
that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For hedges Bank borrowings that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income Other interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are statement in the same period in which the hedged item recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
affects net profit or loss.
For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes Borrowing costs in the fair value, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged with the Finance costs of borrowing are recognised in the income corresponding entry in profit or loss.
Gains or losses from statement over the term of those borrowings.
re-measuring the derivative, or for non-derivatives the foreign currency component of its carrying amount, are Turnover and revenue recognition recognised in profit or loss.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial Turnover billings comprises the gross amounts billed to instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are clients in respect of commission-based income together recognised in the income statement as they arise.
with the total of other fees earned.
Revenue comprises Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging commission and fees earned in respect of turnover.
Direct instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or costs include fees paid to external suppliers where they are no longer qualies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any retained to perform part or all of a specic project for a cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised client and the resulting expenditure is directly attributable in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction to the revenue earned.
Turnover and revenue are stated occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to exclusive of VAT, sales taxes and trade discounts.
occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or loss for the period.
Annual Report 2005 Our 2005 financial statements 147 Our 2005 financial statements Advertising and Media investment management actual threshold is reached provided that collectibility is reasonably assured.
Revenue is typically derived from commissions on media Public relations & public affairs and Branding & placements and fees for advertising services.
Traditionally, the Groups advertising clients were charged a standard identity, Healthcare and Specialist communications commission on their total media and production expenditure.
In recent years, however, this has tended to Revenue is typically derived from retainer fees and services become a matter of individual negotiation.
Revenue may to be performed subject to specic agreement.
Revenue is therefore consist of various arrangements involving recognised when the service is performed, in accordance commissions, fees, incentive-based revenue or a with the terms of the contractual arrangement.
Revenue is combination of the three, as agreed upon with each client.
recognised on long-term contracts, if the final outcome can Revenue is recognised when the service is be assessed with reasonable certainty, by including in the performed, in accordance with the terms of the contractual income statement revenue and related costs as contract arrangement.
Incentive-based revenue typically comprises activity progresses.
both quantitative and qualitative elements: on the element related to quantitative targets, revenue is recognised when Taxation the quantitative targets have been achieved: on the element related to qualitative targets, revenue is recognised when Corporate taxes are payable on taxable profits at current rates.
the incentive is received receivable.
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Information, insight & consultancy The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items Revenue recognised in proportion to the level of service of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other performed for market research contracts is based on proportional performance.
In assessing contract years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or performance, both input and output criteria are reviewed.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated Costs incurred are used as an objective input measure of using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively performance.
The primary input of all work performed enacted by the balance sheet date.
under these arrangements is labour.
As a result of the Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or relationship between labour and cost, there is normally recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts a direct relationship between costs incurred and the of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the proportion of the contract performed to date.
Costs incurred corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable as a proportion of expected total costs is used as an initial profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability proportional performance measure.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all proportional performance measure is always subsequently taxable temporary differences unless specically excepted validated against other more subjective criteria i. e. relevant by IAS 12.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent output measures such as the percentage of interviews that it is probable that taxable profits will be available completed, percentage of reports delivered to a client and against which deductible temporary differences can be the achievement of any project milestones stipulated in the utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the contract.
In the event of divergence between the objective temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the and more subjective measures, the more subjective measures initial recognition other than in a business combination take precedence since these are output measures.
of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects While most of the studies provided in connection neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
with the Groups market research contracts are undertaken Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable in response to an individual clients or group of clients temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries specications, in certain instances a study may be developed and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where as an off-the-shelf product offering sold to a broad client the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary base.
For these transactions, revenue is recognised when difference and it is probable that the temporary difference the product is delivered.
Where the terms of transaction will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
provide for licensing the product on a subscription basis, The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed revenue is recognised over the subscription period on a at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it straight-line basis or, if applicable, based on usage.
is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be Substantially all services are provided on a xed available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Pricing may also include a provision for a Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are surcharge where the actual labour hours incurred in completing expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled a project are signicantly above the labour hours quoted or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the project proposal.
In instances where this occurs, in the income statement, except when it relates to items the surcharge will be included in the total revenue base charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the on which to measure proportional performance when the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Annual Report 2005 148 Our 2005 financial statements Our 2005 financial statements Retirement benefit costs the Groups investment in such operations are reported in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on For dened contribution schemes, contributions are charged the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets to the income statement as payable in respect of the accounting period.
and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the For dened benefit schemes the amounts charged to closing rate.
operating profit are the current service costs and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments.
They are included Share-based payments as part of staff costs.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement if the benets have The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments vested.
If the benets have not vested, the costs are including share options to certain employees and accounts recognised over the period until vesting occurs.
The interest for these awards in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based cost and the expected return on assets are shown within payments.
Equity-settled share-based payments are finance costs and finance income respectively.
Actuarial gains measured at fair value excluding the effect of non marketand losses are recognised immediately in the Statement of based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The Group Recognised Income and Expense.
has used a Black-Scholes valuation model for this purpose.
Where dened benefit schemes are funded, the assets The fair value determined at the grant date is of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group, recognised in the income statement as an expense on a in separate trustee-administered funds.
Pension scheme straight-line basis over the relevant vesting period, based assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are measured on the Groups estimate of the number of shares that will on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and ultimately vest and adjusted for the effect of non marketdiscounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return based vesting conditions.
on a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent currency IFRS 2 permits prospective adoption for grants and term to the scheme liabilities.
The actuarial valuations made after November 2002, but the Group has chosen to are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each adopt IFRS 2 on a full retrospective basis for all option and balance sheet date.
share award grants as the resulting charge better reects the ongoing impact on the Group.
Finance leases New IFRS accounting pronouncements Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at the inception of the lease at the lower of their At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, fair value and the present value of the minimum lease the following Standards and Interpretations which have not payments.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged to the been applied in these financial statements were in issue but income statement on the same basis as owned assets.
Leasing not yet effective: payments are treated as consisting of capital and interest IAS 21 Amendment Net investment in a Foreign Operation elements and the interest is charged to the income statement IAS 39 Amendment Cash ow hedges of Forecast as it is incurred.
Intragroup Transactions IAS 39 Amendment Fair value option Operating leases IAS 39 and IFRS 4 Amendment Financial Guarantee Contracts IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures on a systematic basis.
Any premium or discount on the acquisition of a lease is spread over the life of the lease or IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains until the date of the first rent review.
a Lease IFRIC 5 Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning, Translation of foreign currencies Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds IFRIC 6 Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specic Market Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Foreign currency transactions arising from normal trading IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 activities are recorded at the rates in effect at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in Financial Reporting in Hyperinationary Economies foreign currencies at the year end are translated at the yearIFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 end exchange rate.
Foreign currency gains and losses are IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives.
credited or charged to the income statement as they arise.
The Group does not consider that these Standards The income statements of overseas subsidiary undertakings and Interpretations will have a significant impact on the are translated into pounds sterling at average exchange financial statements of the Group except for additional rates and the year-end net assets of these companies are disclosures on capital and financial instruments when the translated at year-end exchange rates.
Exchange differences relevant standards come into effect for periods commencing arising from retranslation of the opening net assets and on on or after 1 January 2007. foreign currency borrowings to the extent that they hedge Annual Report 2005 Our 2005 financial statements 149
