Corporate responsibility Business impact The impact of our work including marketing ethics, compliance with marketing standards, protection of consumer Corporate responsibility continues to be important to privacy, together with social and cause-related marketing.
WPPs business outlook and future success.
Consumers are Employment including diversity and equal increasingly aware of environmental and social issues, and opportunities, business ethics, employee development, this is of signicance to our multinational and leading remuneration, communication, and health and safety.
Social investment including pro bono work, donations As ethically-conscious consumers increasingly seek to charity and employee volunteering.
brands that match their personal values, WPP businesses Also part of our corporate responsibility are supporting their clients in developing and promoting programme is our environmental impact, as well as products to meet changing consumer preferences.
our suppliers corporate responsibility performance.
The impact is variable regionally and between markets, but signs of concern are often evident.
Interest in ethical How we manage corporate responsibility products such as organic produce, healthy foods, fairrisk and opportunity traded coffee and cocoa, sweat-shop free apparel and climate-friendly cars has never been higher.
Paul Richardson is the Board director responsible for WPPs Corporate Responsibility Policy and our assessing corporate responsibility risks for 2006, having Corporate Responsibility Report are increasingly relevant taken over from Howard Paster.
He chairs WPPs when competing for new business and have proved to be Corporate responsibility committee, established in 2003, an attribute.
We believe that WPP is well placed to respond which advises on policy, monitors emerging issues and to opportunities created by the corporate response to co-ordinates communication among Group companies.
global environmental and social challenges.
The committee is made up of senior representatives WPP share owners continue to show interest in from WPPs major business categories.
It identifies and our corporate responsibility practices and we aim to assesses significant corporate responsibility risks and respond constructively to their requests for corporate opportunities for the business.
In support of WPPs responsibility information.
corporate responsibility activities, the Groups operating WPP is included in the Dow Jones Sustainability companies have each nominated a corporate responsibility Index and the FTSE4Good Index.
representative responsible for compiling and reporting data to the parent company and co-ordinating activity within Developments during 2005 the operating companies.
Paul Richardson provides an annual assessment In 2005, we published our third Corporate Responsibility of corporate responsibility risks and performance to the Report which documents our approach, performance and Audit committee.
The Companys internal audit function goals.
The Report provides a detailed and objective also includes corporate responsibility risks in its reviews account of how we are implementing WPPs Corporate of Group companies.
This is in addition to the business Responsibility Policy across our businesses.
and financial reporting risks process described on pages Our reporting focuses on WPPs three most 106 and 107. significant corporate responsibility issues: Annual Report 2005 110 How we behave
