How were rewarded The dynamic nature of our businesses meant that the Impact of IFRS three-year performance measures used in our operating company LTIP plans were both volatile and complex.
From 1 January 2005 the Company has been required to This in turn resulted in the plans not being fully understood account under IFRS.
It is commonly acknowledged that this and providing little motivational or retentive effect.
may lead to greater volatility in earnings.
The committee In the limited cases they were being used, restricted stock is aware that these changes may affect the evaluation of awards were much better understood and provided a good performance under those WPP long-term plans which use retention mechanism.
The committee, in The poaching of our people by competitors was consultation with the Audit committee, has resolved to take becoming an area of considerable concern across most of these matters into account when evaluating performance our businesses and this was often accompanied by senior under the relevant long-term incentive plans.
executive frustration with the lack of appropriate means Details of the expensing of share-based incentives of compensation to retain our best people.
under IFRS 2 are given in note 25 on page 160.
Renewed LEAP continues to be an effective plan for certain senior executives.
Policy on directors service contracts, notice periods The committee therefore decided to make a number and termination payments of significant changes to the way in which compensation is to be delivered while at the same time staying true to the The Compensation committee regularly considers the principles of compensation described above.
In summary Companys policy on the duration of directors service this entailed: contracts, the length of notice periods in executive Single-year performance awards Performance Share directors service contracts and provisions for payment Awards PSAs, delivered as restricted stock awards and if any on termination of such contracts.
vesting a further two years after the end of the one-year None of the contracts of parent company executive performance period, replaced awards previously made directors contain liquidated damages provisions.
There were under the operating company LTIPs.
no payments in 2005 in respect of termination of employment Similarly at the parent company, the use of Executive of any executive director.
The notice periods for directors Share Awards ESAs replaced awards previously made are as follows: under the Performance Share Plan.
Again, these awards will vest two years after the end of the one-year Executive director Contract effective date Notice period performance period.
Sir Martin Sorrell 1 April 2005 At will A signicantly reduced use of stock options from the Howard Paster 1 January 2002 6 months WPP Executive Stock Option Plan.
Awards of stock options Paul Richardson 1 January 2005 12 months under this plan have not been made to executive directors Mark Read 9 September 2002 6 months since 1995.
Below this level, options will now only be used under this plan as opposed to the WWOP referred to in Non-executive director Contract date the table on page 122 in special circumstances, for example Philip Lader 26 February 2001 as a recruitment incentive.
Colin Day 25 July 2005 Future awards of stock made on an annual basis to the Esther Dyson 29 June 1999 WPP Leaders, Partners and High Potential Groups will all Orit Gadiesh 28 April 2004 be in the form of restricted stock which vest three years David Komansky 28 January 2003 after grant.
Bud Morten 2 December 1991 Lubna Olayan 18 March 2005 John Quelch 10 July 1991 Koichiro Naganuma 23 January 2004 Christopher Mackenzie 14 March 2000 Jeffrey Rosen 20 December 2004 Paul Spencer 28 April 2004 The notice period applicable to all non-executive directors is two months.
Annual Report 2005 120 How were rewarded
