Operating& financial review Like-for-like performance Treasury activities On a constant currency basis, revenue was up almost 23% Treasury activity is managed centrally, from the parent and gross profit up almost 24%.
Like-for-like revenues, companys London, New York and Hong Kong ofces, excluding the impact of acquisitions and on a constant and is principally concerned with the monitoring of currency basis, were up 5.5%.
Like-for-like revenues were working capital, managing external and internal funding up 6% in the first half of 2005 and up 5% in the second requirements and the monitoring and management of half, continuing the strong organic growth of almost 6% financial market risks, in particular interest rate and foreign in the second half of 2004. exchange exposures.
The treasury operation is not a profit centre and Headcount its activities are carried out in accordance with policies approved by the Board of directors and subject to regular review and audit.
The number of people in the Group averaged 70,936 The Groups interest rate management policy against 57,788 in 2004, an increase of 22.8%.
On a likefor-like basis, average headcount was up to 70,936 from recognises that xing rates on all its debt eliminates the 67,439, an increase of 5.2%.
At the end of 2005, staff possibility of benefiting from rate reductions and similarly, numbers were 74,631 compared with 71,624 at the end having all its debt at oating rates unduly exposes the of 2004 on a like-for-like basis, an increase of 4.2%.
Group to increases in rates.
Including all employees of associated undertakings, staff Its principal borrowing currencies are US dollars, numbers were approximately 92,000 at 31 December 2005. pounds sterling and euros.
Borrowings in these currencies represented 76% of the Groups gross indebtedness at Acquisitions and start-ups 31 December 2005 at $1,089 million, 168 million and N948 million and 80% of the Groups average gross debt during the course of 2005 at $1,759 million, 190 million In 2005, in addition to the completion of the acquisition of and N966 million.
Including the effect of interest rate and Grey, the Group continued to make small to medium-sized acquisitions or investments in high-growth geographical or cross currency swaps, 93% of the year-end US dollar net functional areas.
The net initial cost of all acquisitions was debt is at xed rates averaging 5.08% for an average period 378 million in cash, in Advertising and Media investment of 97 months: 62% of the GBP net debt is at a xed rate of management in the US, the UK, Denmark, the Netherlands, -2.23% including the effect of the redemption premium on Spain, Russia, Israel, Argentina, Hong Kong and Australia: the 450 million 2% convertible bonds for an average in Information, insight & consultancy in the US, the UK, period of 16 months: and 16% of the euro net debt is at xed Poland, China, Hong Kong, Korea and New Zealand: rates averaging 8.27% for an average period of 32 months.
in Public relations & public affairs in the US, Denmark, Other than xed rate debt, the Groups other xed Bahrain, Argentina, China and Australia: in Healthcare rates are achieved principally through interest rate swaps communications in the US, the Netherlands and with the Groups bankers.
The Group also uses forward Switzerland and in direct, internet & interactive in the US.
rate agreements and interest rate caps to manage exposure to interest rate changes.
At 31 December 2005, no forward Parent company initiatives rate agreements or interest rate caps were outstanding.
These interest rate derivatives are used only to hedge exposures to interest rate movements arising from the Increasingly, WPP is concentrating on its mission of the Groups borrowing and surplus cash balances arising from management of the imagination, and ensuring it is a big company with the heart and mind of a small one.
To aid its commercial activities and are not traded independently.
the achievement of this objective and to develop the benets Payments made under these instruments are accounted for of membership in the Group for both clients and our people, on an accruals basis.
the parent company continues to develop its activities in the An analysis of the debt and xed rate maturities is areas of human resources, property, procurement, information shown in note 11 of the financial statements on pages 156 technology and practice development.
Ten practice areas and 157. which span all our brands have been developed initially in The Group manages liquidity risk by ensuring media investment management, healthcare, privatisation, continuity and exibility of funding even in difficult market new technologies, new faster-growing markets, internal conditions.
Undrawn committed borrowing facilities are communications, retail, entertainment and media, financial maintained in excess of peak net borrowing levels and debt services and hi-tech and telecommunications.
Annual Report 2005 Operating and financial review 139
