Operating& financial review New corporate structure Future prospects Following approval by share owners at an Extraordinary Including associates, the Group had over 92,000 full-time General Meeting on 26 September 2005, and after obtaining people in over 2,000 ofces in 106 countries at the year end.
Court approval, the Groups corporate structure was changed It services over 300 of the Fortune Global 500 companies, in October 2005.
This primarily involved the introduction over one-half of NASDAQ 100, over 30 of the Fortune of a new parent undertaking in the UK.
This reorganisation e-50, and over 390 national or multinational clients in three resulted in the creation of more than 5 billion of additional or more disciplines.
More than 270 clients are served in distributable reserves, which the Board considers necessary four disciplines and these clients account for around 60% to cater for likely requirements for dividends and share of Group revenues.
The Group also works with nearly repurchases in the medium to long term.
220 clients in six or more countries.
These statistics reect the increasing opportunities Pensions funding for developing client relationships between activities nationally, internationally and by function.
The Group estimates that well over 35% of new assignments in the The Groups pension deficit was 231.4 million as at year were generated through the joint development of 31 December 2005, compared to 202.3 million as at 31 December 2004.
The pension deficit increase is due opportunities by two or more Group companies.
New to increases in North America and Continental Europe.
integration mechanisms, sensitive to global and local These increases are principally due to newly acquired opportunities, including WPP Global Client Leaders and unfunded plans through the acquisition of Grey and the Country Managers, continue to be developed.
There is an reclassication of various existing unfunded arrangements increasing number of major client creative and integration from dened contribution to dened benefit provision opportunities at a Group level.
following a reassessment of the terms of these arrangements The world economy continued to grow in 2005, in 2005.
Also, in the UK, the discount rate decreased from after the recovery in 2003 and 2004, driven by the US, 5.3% to 4.7% due to the lower yields available on highAsia Pacific, Latin America, the Middle East, Russia quality UK corporate debt.
As a result, your Company has Most of the Groups pension scheme assets are performed at record levels.
While like-for-like revenues held by its schemes in the UK and North America.
In the have grown beyond market expectations, like-for-like UK, the forecasted weighted average return on assets average headcount has grown less.
decreased from 5.7% as at 31 December 2004 to 5.2% Following this productivity improvement, the as at 31 December 2005, and in North America, the Groups margins at both the preand post-incentive levels forecasted weighted average return decreased from 6.9% have improved signicantly.
In addition, given improved to 6.7%, principally due to decreases in expected rates levels of operating profit and margin, incentive pools and of return on corporate bonds.
variable staff costs are now at record levels.
This will improve Contributions to funded schemes are determined operational gearing and exibility in 2006 and beyond.
in line with local conditions and practices.
Certain As usual, the budgets for 2006 have been prepared contributions in respect of unfunded schemes are paid as on a prudent basis, largely excluding new business, they fall due.
Our advisors indicate that further average particularly in advertising and media investment cash contributions of approximately 11-12 million per management.
They predict improvements in like-for-like annum would be necessary to fully fund all funded pension revenues in the range of 4%, with balanced growth in schemes over the remaining expected funding period.
the first and second half of the year.
They also indicate marketing services revenues growing faster than advertising and media investment management.
In the first quarter of 2006 reported revenues rose by over 23%.
Constant currency revenues were up 18%.
Currency uctuations accounted for just over 5% of the Groups revenue growth in the first quarter, principally due to the strength of the US dollar against sterling.
On a like-for-like basis, excluding acquisitions and currency uctuations, revenues were up almost 5%.
Annual Report 2005 Operating and financial review 141
