124 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards refer to note 2 for changes in these standards.
Xstrata plc the Company has adopted the following principal accounting policies: Investments Equity investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any provision for impairments.
Financial Assets, Loans and Receivables Financial assets are classified as either financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments or available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
The Company determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value on the trade date, plus, in the case of investments not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available for sale.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
This cost is computed as the amount initially recognised minus principal repayments, plus or minus the cumulative amortisation using the effective interest method of any difference between the initially recognised amount and the maturity amount.
Gains and losses are recognised in the profit and loss account when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Loans and receivables are derecognised when the Company no longer has a right to receive cash flows from the asset.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables have been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate ie the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in profit or loss account.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the profit and loss account, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost that would have been measured if there had been no impairment at the reversal date.
Impairment The carrying amounts of fixed assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If there are indicators of impairment, an exercise is undertaken to determine whether the carrying values are in excess of their recoverable amounts.
Such review is undertaken on income generating units.
If the carrying amount of a fixed asset exceeds the recoverable amount, a provision is recorded to reflect the asset at the lower amount.
In assessing recoverable amount for fixed assets, the relevant future cash flows expected to arise from the continuing use of such assets and from their disposal have been discounted to their present value using a market-determined discount rate.
Provisions for liabilities Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation, as a result of past events, and it is probable that an outflow of resources that can be reliably estimated will be required to settle the obligation.
