120 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements 41 Events After Balance Sheet Date On 15 February 2006, Xstrata Coal entered into an alliance agreement with Erdene Gold Inc. Erdene of Halifax, Nova Scotia following the 9.9% acquisition of their ordinary share capital for US$2.6 million, which allows Xstrata Coal the first option to enter into a joint venture and earn a 75% interest in coal opportunities identified by Erdene in Mongolia.
Erdene is a diversified mineral exploration company with a significant profile in Mongolia and a large number of exploration projects in the country, which include both coal and base metals.
Through this agreement, Xstrata Coal will have access to Erdene projects and share with Erdene its extensive knowledge of coal project feasibility, development and operations to jointly pursue development opportunities.
Whilst this agreement is focussed on the joint development of metallurgical and thermal coal projects, the Group will also have the right to participate in other mineral development opportunities with Erdene.
On 28 February 2006, the Group announced that it has concluded an agreement with African Rainbow Minerals Limited ARM, to establish a new black controlled company, ARM Coal, to be 51% owned by ARM and 49% by Xstrata.
ARM is listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and is controlled by historically disadvantaged South Africans HDSAs.
The newly established ARM Coal will own a 20% participation share in Xstratas existing South African coal business, providing it with a significant stake in the thermal coal export and domestic markets, with exposure to some 20 million tonnes of annual production and immediate access to cash flows.
ARM Coal will also hold a majority 51% interest in the Goedgevonden project, through a joint venture with the Group.
This will provide ARM Coal with an effective interest the Groups South African coal business of above 26%.
ARM will contribute US$65 million in cash for its 51% shareholding in ARM Coal.
The Group is facilitating ARM Coals entry by funding the acquisition of 51% of the Goedgevonden project and providing all the funding required to commission this project.
ARM will appoint the majority of ARM Coal directors and the majority of representatives on the Goedgevonden joint venture management committee, in line with its majority interests.
The Group will manage the Goedgevonden Project on behalf of the joint venture.
The Groups existing operations will be managed through a supervisory committee consisting of two ARM Coal representatives, appointed by ARM, and four Group representatives.
On 28 February 2006, the Group and Kagiso Trust Investments Kagiso announced an agreement to form a black economic empowerment partnership in respect of the Groups 50% interest in the Mototolo Joint Venture with Anglo Platinum.
Kagiso will acquire 26% of Groups 50% interest, resulting in Kagiso owning a fully participative 13% interest in the earnings from the Mototolo JV, in return for funding its proportionate share of the total capital expenditure required for the project.
Xstrata will retain an effective 37% interest in the Mototolo JV and will establish a joint Steering Committee with Kagiso, comprising two Kagiso representatives and three Group representatives, to manage and jointly vote the two companies combined 50% interest in the JV.
The Steering Committee will also represent the partners on the Mototolo JV Executive Committee.
On finalisation, Kagisos participation will be effective retrospectively from the inception of the Mototolo JV.
Kagiso is in the process of raising debt financing to fund its share of the projects capital expenditure.
The Group is supporting Kagisos entry into the Mototolo JV through the provision of a completion guarantee and a loan in the event that capital expenditure requirements exceed budgeted project estimates.
1 On 1 March 2006, the Group announced the proposed acquisition of 33 3% of the Cerrejn thermal coal operation in Colombia from Glencore for a cash consideration of US$1,712 million including US$12 million net asset adjustment and funded through a new bank debt facility.
Cerrejn is a privately-owned,  joint venture in which BHP Billiton plc, Anglo American plc and Glencore each own a one third stake.
The acquisition is subject to approval at an extraordinary general meeting, obtaining certain third party consents and agreements and will also be conditional upon certain competition and regulatory clearances.
