Corporate governance Corporate governance As required by the UKs Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code all companies that have a stock market listing in the UK are required to make disclosures in relation to the Combined Code.
In addition, companies are required to report on the remuneration of their directors in accordance with both the provisions of the Combined Code and UK company law.
Dick Olver The following sections of this report deal with these Chairman corporate governance requirements: Applying the Principles in the Combined Code Compliance with the Provisions in the Combined Code Audit Committee report Nominations Committee report Corporate Responsibility Committee report Remuneration Committee report Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee report Directors remuneration report 48 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 Applying the principles in the Combined Q The Combined Code principles also deal relations programme and this is the Code a discussion with the Chairman with the role of the board chairman.
responsibility of the Chief Executive Can you explain how you see your role?
However, as Q The first principle in the Combined Code Chairman I need to maintain contact concerns the need for an effective board.
A My job is to lead the Board and make with the Companys major shareholders How does the BAE Systems board apply sure that it is doing its job effectively.
to ensure that they are happy with the this principle?
An important part of this is setting the Companys performance and to be in agenda for each meeting, facilitating a position to keep the Board and its A The Board is ultimately responsible for the discussion on matters and, where committees appraised of shareholders good management of the Company and necessary, helping to reach agreement views.
In 2005 I had seven individual the directors accept that we are collectively on particular issues.
In common with meetings with major shareholders and responsible for its success.
However, nearly all UK companies we operate a also ensured that a survey was BAE Systems is a large and complex unitary board.
That is one board that undertaken of investors opinions and the company and we need to have a clear view brings together the executive directors, results presented to the Board.
This was as to how we can effectively discharge our individuals that have executive done by the Companys investor relations duties as a Board.
This largely comes management responsibilities, and consultants and covered investors who down to how we set the framework for the the non-executive directors, who do together own over 25% of the Company.
running of the Company and how we look not have executive responsibilities If there are any concerns about my own to exercise control despite the inevitable but who bring independent judgement performance, shareholders can speak need to delegate decision making.
It is a to the Boards discussions.
It is my to our Senior Independent Director, difficult balance, and there will always be responsibility to ensure that this team Sir Peter Mason.
a tension between the need for robust works constructively so that it can take centralised controls and desire to have a decisions objectively in the best interest All shareholders have the opportunity fleet footed entrepreneurial business.
to attend our Annual General Meeting believe that focusing on what really matters to find out more about the Company and and understanding the distinct roles of Non-executive directors bring a wealth ask questions about this report and the Board and the executive management of experience and knowledge to Board accounts and any of the other matters team is the key to a Boards effectiveness.
meetings: however, they can only put before the meeting.
contribute effectively if they have a To assist us in the job we do, the Board good understanding of the Company Q There have been a number of changes to has recently agreed a Board Charter and the markets it operates in.
When the membership of the Board this year.
detailing a number of governance non-executive directors join the Board, Can you tell me what your processes are principles.
These cover strategy, we provide them with an induction for Board succession planning and the standards and values, oversight and programme covering strategy, investor recruitment of new Board members?
relations, core business processes Within the Charter there is also a clear and controls, corporate responsibility A One of my most important responsibilities statement of my principal duties as including health and safety and internal as Chairman is to work with the other Chairman, those of the Chief Executive audit.
They are also offered a private members of the Nominations Committee and the Senior Independent Director.
meeting with KPMG, our Auditors.
to make sure that we have robust It also includes a comprehensive succession plans for the Board.
schedule of what the Board has agreed We arrange for them to visit our principal are the matters reserved for its decision operations in the UK and the US, where As detailed in my letter to shareholders at and therefore are not to be delegated they not only learn about programmes the beginning of this report, a number of to management.
A copy of the Board and products but also meet local new non-executive directors have joined Charter can be found on the Companys management and develop an the Board during the year.
The search for website at www.
com or can understanding of our corporate culture these individuals was managed by the be obtained from the Company Secretary.
After this introductory Nominations Committee, chaired by me, programme all directors are provided with the Board appointing the individuals The Board Charter and our more detailed with the opportunity to visit any of our after they had been formally nominated Board Procedures Manual are focused operations and I and the Company for its approval.
on the operations of the Board.
Matters Secretary take responsibility for ensuring concerning the wider management of the that the Board is kept abreast of matters I think it is important that I ensure Company our values, our expectations affecting the Company and its directors.
that non-executive directors have the in terms of employee behaviour and key Also, all directors receive a comprehensive opportunity to meet with managers internal control processes can be found report each month from the Chief below the level of the Board and I in the Operational Framework.
This Executive covering operational matters.
believe we now employ effective document has been developed over a means of achieving this.
Not only number of years and is reviewed by the I should also mention the role I play does this increase their understanding Board on an annual basis.
The of the business but it also enables Company has a comprehensive investor directors to meet people who one day BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 49 Corporate governance Corporate governance continued will be candidates for positions at the Board and that all eight of the nonmarkets, and through the executive highest levels in the Company.
The Board executive directors excluding myself team a good deal of work is undertaken must have confidence that we have have been deemed to be independent each year to not only analyse our a rich resource of future leaders and for the purposes of the Combined Code.
business and its markets but also to that their careers are being effectively This represents a success against the communicate this to the Board.
The Nominations Committee objectives set last year.
the final element of the process is using has been particularly active in this area our annual board performance evaluation during the year.
The importance of the work that the to provide feedback on whether we got Boards committees undertake should the Boards participation in the strategy The Company has a common not be underestimated.
Much of their sessions right or not.
performance management, development work is undertaken in areas where and succession planning process that being independent and not having On pages 10 to 23 of this report you covers over 5,000 senior managers.
conflicts of interest is essential, e. g. will find details of the strategy agreed Succession plans identify potential audit and executive remuneration.
last November following a series of succession candidates and development The appointment of additional nonstrategy discussions at our regular objectives for managers.
Last year we executive directors has given us the Board meetings and a one day Strategy strengthened our executive succession ability to refresh the membership of Workshop.
The changes between the planning process for individuals who are all the Boards committees during the strategy detailed here and what you potential succession candidates for year and in doing this we have sought to saw in last years report are subtle, Board and Executive Committee positions.
match the knowledge and experience but reflect the evolution of our strategy Externally facilitated, this new process is of directors with the requirements of the in response to success against the based on assessing individuals against committees.
Also, when reviewing the strategic objectives and the new a number of critical competencies membership of committees we tried to challenges and opportunities that that have been derived from both an ensure that membership responsibilities have arisen in the marketplace.
understanding of the strategic and were spread fairly across those directors unique challenges facing the Company eligible for such appointments.
Q How does the Board satisfy itself that and external benchmarking information the Company is performing in line with provided by the facilitator.
We believe Q Can you say more about how the Board the goals set by the Board?
that this is a world-class process and sets the Companys strategic aims and one that will be of significant help to the how you set goals and objectives for A The Board is answerable to the Nominations Committee and Board.
shareholders for the performance of the Company.
To help discharge this duty the Every year, the Board as a whole receives A Ultimately, the Board agrees the strategy Board agrees a number of performance a presentation on succession plans for the Company.
However, what is goals that are contained in the business for all Executive Director and Executive also important is that the Board has plans and the strategy that we agree each Committee positions except that of involvement in the process by which year.
During the year we monitor progress Chief Executive this being undertaken that strategy was set its very important against the strategic objectives and by the Nominations Committee see to be confident that what has been portfolio actions.
We also monitor separate report.
agreed is well-founded and deliverable.
financial performance on a monthly basis I believe that BAE Systems has evolved relative to the Financial Plan and the cost Q What do these changes mean to the a comprehensive and robust process and schedule performance of individual effectiveness of the Board?
for developing strategy: centred on major contracts relative to the contracted the Integrated Business Planning IBP price and contract milestones.
A There are two important things to think process.
On an annual basis this seeks about here: first, evolving the composition to align the development and realisation The Board is pleased that the Chief of the Board to ensure that the skills of strategic objectives within detailed Executive has placed the need to embed and experience of directors reflect the business plans, thereby helping to a high performance culture across the needs of the business, and secondly, ensure that strategy is not just a grand Company at the top of his list of the balance between independent plan but something that can be delivered.
In support of this the Centre non-executive directors and executive The Boards role is to probe and challenge for Performance Excellence CfPE was directors.
As we reported last year, the strategy development, utilising the established during the year.
This is a Company is growing its business in the experience and knowledge that different small strategic team reporting to the US and we need the membership of directors bring to the Board.
Chief Executive and working with the Board to reflect this development.
the Executive Committee to drive We also stated that it was our intention It is important that all members of performance improvement.
Some to comply with the Combined Code the Board are able to participate in good work has already been done by requirement that at least half of the discussions on strategy.
To achieve the CfPE and it has reported to the Board should comprise independent this I need to ensure that the Board is Board on metrics and key performance non-executive directors.
I am pleased well-briefed on the latest developments indicators, including contract schedule that we now have four US citizens on the and trends in defence and aerospace adherence, that will be used by 50 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 management and the Board when Last years evaluation identified the The evaluation process is also used to monitoring the Companys performance.
following key actions, which I am pleased evaluate the performance of individual to report have all been completed: directors.
Feedback from this exercise Another important issue for the Board, there was scope to increase the has been used during one-on-one particularly those non-executive directors number of non-executive directors conversations between the Chairman on the Remuneration Committee, is of the Board: and all directors, discussing strengths linking performance with reward.
Setting and weaknesses and focusing on the number of scheduled Board goals for non-financial performance one or two things that could improve meetings should be increased: is important and more information on individual performance.
this can be found in the separate the Boards committees were well Remuneration Report starting on page 57. chaired but would benefit from the In the evaluation process all directors are appointment of additional members: asked for their views on my performance Q A key part of corporate governance and as Chairman.
Similar to feedback for concerns the means by which a board other directors, feedback was provided corporate responsibility could be given satisfies itself that a companys financial to me by the the Senior Independent a higher priority on the Boards agenda.
controls and systems of risk Director and we focused on ways that management are robust and defensible This years Board performance evaluation I could enhance my own performance and that financial information is took the form of the facilitator interviewing as Chairman.
accurate and can be relied on.
How does separately each of the directors and the the Board apply this Code principle?
She then reported to me and the Senior Independent Director A The Board has overall responsibility on the key issues arising from this prior for the system of internal controls to reporting to the Board.
maintained by the Company and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Audit Feedback from this years review Committee, acting on behalf of the Board, included strong sentiments that the is responsible for much of the detail Board had made great strides in its associated with this.
However, the composition, committee structure Chairman of the Audit Committee reports and overall performance during 2005. regularly to the Board on its activities Of course, Im delighted that the and the whole Board receives reports enhanced Board performance coincided produced by the Auditors who attend with a very strong overall Company Audit Committee meetings and can be performance.
That said, there were a questioned on their reviews and audits.
few key actions resulting from the review Also, each year the Board has a separate that the Board has agreed to address session reviewing key risks and the during the upcoming year.
These include: actions being taken to mitigate and to conduct in-depth succession manage them.
planning as well as developing bench strength among senior leadership.
The Board has conducted a review of This will also include long-term the effectiveness of internal controls succession planning for non-executive during the year.
This work will be led by the Companys systems of internal the Nominations Committee: controls is detailed below and in the to broaden the scope of director Audit Committee report on page 54. development to include, amongst other things, training in ethics and accounting Q The Combined Code requires that boards in a long-term contracting environment: undertake a formal and rigorous annual and evaluation of their own performance and that of their committees and individual to continue Board involvement in directors.
strategy development and increase focus on longer-term strategic A For the first time last year the Board challenges and opportunities.
undertook a formal evaluation process using an external facilitator.
We believed that this was an effective process and this year we have completed a similar process again using an independent HR consultant as a facilitator.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 51 Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Compliance with the Provisions The Board is normally scheduled to meet prior to his appointment to the Board in the Combined Code Mr Weinberg had no involvement with seven times during a year.
In 2005, the Directors BAE Systems and none of the executive Board met 11 times and in addition one In the period from the beginning of the year directors or the Chairman had had any day was spent reviewing strategy.
In 2004 to 16 June 2005 the Company was not business dealings with him.
Mr Weinberg the Board had six scheduled meetings and compliant with provision A.
3.2 of the has recently left Goldman Sachs and has had considered increasing this to eight.
Combined Code that requires that at least no involvement, directly or indirectly, in However, the Board believes that scheduling half the board, excluding the chairman, their relationship with the Company.
seven meetings in 2005 worked well and should comprise independent non-executive will do the same in 2006.
The attendance At the end of November 2005 Dr Ulrich directors.
From that date onwards the Board by individual directors at meetings of the Cartellieri completed his second term of has been compliant with this provision.
Board and its committees is detailed in the three years as a non-executive director of table on page 53. the Company.
In line with the requirements The Board comprises presently a nonof the Combined Code the Nominations executive chairman, eight non-executive The Board has appointed Sir Peter Mason Committee undertook a rigorous review directors and six executive directors.
as the Senior Independent Director.
and also considered the need to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and The Board considers all of the current The Company Secretary, through the experience amongst Board members.
non-executive directors with the exception Chairman, is responsible for advising the of the Chairman to be independent for the Board on governance matters.
The Company Feedback from the Boards annual purposes of Combined Code.
Each of these Secretary is appointed by, and can only be performance evaluation was the principal directors have been identified on pages removed by, the Board.
element of the review process and, as 46 and 47 of this report.
agreed by the Board, the external The Companys Articles of Association facilitator provided the Chairman with Peter Weinberg was appointed to the Board require that all new directors seek redetailed feedback on the performance on 16 June 2005.
At that time he was a election to the Board at the following Annual of all Directors including Dr Cartellieri.
senior director of Goldman Sachs Inc an General Meeting AGM.
In addition, all Following this the Chairman reported to the investment bank that provides services directors are required to stand down and Nominations Committee that Dr Cartellieri to BAE Systems.
Whilst Mr Weinberg has seek re-election to the Board at least once remained an effective member of the Board.
since left Goldman Sachs the Board has every three years.
addressed the issue of his independence After due consideration, the Nominations in light of provision A.
3.1 of the Combined Internal control Committee recommended to the Board Code concerning the possible existence The Board has conducted a review of the that Dr Cartellieris term of appointment within the last three years of a material effectiveness of the Groups system of be extended until a date in the second half business relationship between the director internal controls.
of 2007 to be agreed with Dr Cartellieri.
and the Company or between the Company This recommendation was made for the and a party with which the director is a BAE Systems has developed a system following reasons: major shareholder, senior employee, of internal control that encompasses, the annual evaluation process had partner or director.
amongst other things, the policies, confirmed that he remained an effective processes, tasks and behaviours, member of the Board and added an The Board considered the issue of that taken together, seek to: important wider European perspective: Mr Weinbergs independence when making facilitate the effective and efficient and his appointment and determined that he operation of the Company by enabling was independent for the purposes of the during 2005 three new non-executive it to respond appropriately to significant Combined Code, notwithstanding the directors had been appointed to the operational, financial, compliance and relationship with Goldman Sachs.
The Board, following which the average length other risks that it faces in carrying out reasons for reaching this conclusion were: of service for non-executive directors its business: Goldman Sachs is a large organisation excluding the Chairman had reduced assist in ensuring that internal and with many clients.
BAE Systems is to two and a half years.
Retaining Dr external reporting is accurate and timely therefore one of many clients it has Cartellieris services provided the Board and based on the maintenance of proper worldwide and the fees earned from its with continuity amongst a relatively records supported by robust information relationship with the Company represents new group of non-executive directors gathering processes: and a small part of its total revenues.
As a who would value his experience and consequence, the Board believes that knowledge of the Company gained over assist in ensuring that the Company the relationship between the Company the previous six years.
This was seen as complies with applicable laws and and Goldman Sachs does not represent being particularly important given the regulations at all times and also internal a material business relationship: and long-term nature of the business and policies in respect of the standards its complex contracting arrangements.
of behaviour and conduct mandated by the Board.
52 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 Reporting within the Company is structured the Board as a whole can take a view on time has been devoted to achieving the so that key issues are escalated through the robust application of core control processes this matter.
In order to assist the Audit management team ultimately to the Board, and good progress has been made.
The Committee and the Board in this review, the if appropriate.
The Operational Framework consistent application of world-class control Company has developed the Operational provides a common framework across processes will remain one of managements Assurance Statement OAS process.
This the Company for operational and financial prime objectives and likewise the monitoring has been subject to regular review over a controls.
The business processes detailed of performance in this area will continue to number of years, which has resulted in within the Operational Framework draw on be a key responsibility for the Audit several refinements being made.
global best practice and their application Committee and the Board.
is mandated across the organisation.
The OAS requires that each part of the Lifecycle Management LCM is such a The Company is committed to the protection business completes a formal review of process.
Properly applied, this process of its assets, which include human, property its compliance against the Operational is key to helping deliver effective project and financial resources, through an effective Framework, including operational and management from inception including the risk management process, underpinned financial controls and risk management bid process through to product delivery where appropriate by insurance.
It is signed-off by the managing and ultimately customer support.
director of every business unit, Head Office The Internal Audit team independently heads of functions and the executive Further key processes are Integrated reviews the risk identification procedures directors.
The OAS is completed every half Business Planning IBP, Quarterly Business and control processes implemented by year and includes a formal assessment of Reviews QBR and Monthly Finance management.
It provides objective business risk.
The IBP approved annually by assurance as to the operation and validity the Board, results in an agreed long-term of the systems of internal control through The overall responsibility for the system of strategy for each business group, together a programme of cyclical reviews making internal control within BAE Systems rests with with detailed near-term budgets.
The QBRs recommendations for business and the directors of the Company.
Responsibility evaluate progress against the IBP and are control improvements.
for establishing and operating detailed chaired by the Chief Operating Officers.
control procedures lies with the managing The Board has delegated to the Audit director of each operating business.
Whilst the quality of the control processes Committee responsibility for reviewing in In line with any system of internal control, is fundamental to the overall control detail the effectiveness of the Companys environment, the consistent application of system of internal controls.
Having the policies and procedures that are these processes is equally important.
In the undertaken such reviews, the Committee mandated in the Operational Framework are last few years a great deal of management reports to the Board on its findings so that designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable Attendance at Board and Committee meetings: and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Corporate Director Board  NED Fees The responsibility for internal control Prof S Birley 9 11 5 5 1 1 6 6 6 6 procedures with equity accounted 1 Mr P Carroll 2 2 1 1 0 1 investments and other collaborations rests, Dr U Cartellieri 7 11 2 2 4 4 5 6 on the whole, with the senior management Mr M J Hartnall 10 11 7 7 of those operations.
The Company monitors 2 Lord Hesketh 3 4 0 1 its investments and exerts influence through Mr C V Geoghegan 10 11 board representation.
Mr M Lester 11 11 1 1 Sir Peter Mason 8 11 4 6 4 4 7 7 Going concern Mr S L Mogford 11 11 After making due enquiries, the directors Mr R L Olver 11 11 7 7 1 1 have a reasonable expectation that the Rt Hon M Portillo 11 11 7 7 1 1 6 6 Group has adequate resources to continue 1 Mr R Quarta 2 2 2 2 2 2 in operational existence for the foreseeable Mr M H Ronald 9 11 1 1 future.
For this reason they continue to Mr G W Rose 10 11 adopt the going concern basis in preparing Mr M J Turner 11 11 1 1 the accounts.
3 Mr P A Weinberg 4 4 1 1 2 2 Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended 1 appointed to the Board on 7 September 2005 2 retired from the Board on 4 May 2005 3 appointed to the Board on 16 June 2005 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 53 Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Relations with shareholders make judgements and estimates that Responsibilities The Company maintains a comprehensive are reasonable and prudent: Reviewing the effectiveness of the Investor Relations website that provides, Companys financial reporting, internal for the group financial statements, amongst other things, information on control policies and procedures for the state whether they have been prepared investing in BAE Systems and copies of identification, assessment and reporting in accordance with IFRSs as adopted the presentation materials used for key of risk.
by the EU: shareholder presentations.
This can be Monitoring the role and effectiveness accessed via www.
for the parent company financial of the Internal Audit function including statements, state whether applicable approving the appointment or removal The Annual General Meeting AGM provides UK Accounting Standards have been of the Audit Director.
all shareholders with the opportunity to followed, subject to any material develop their understanding of the Company departures disclosed and explained Considering and making and ask questions on the matters put to the in the parent company financial recommendations to the Board meeting including this report and accounts.
statements: and on the appointment of the Auditors.
All shareholders are entitled to vote on the prepare the financial statements on Keeping the relationship with the resolutions put to the AGM and, to ensure the going concern basis unless it is Auditors under review, including the that all votes are counted, the Companys inappropriate to presume that the group terms of their engagement and fees, Articles of Association requires that a poll is and the parent company will continue their independence and their expertise, taken on all the resolutions in the Notice of in business.
The results of the votes on the resolutions will be published on the The directors are responsible for keeping Monitoring the integrity of the Companys Companys website.
proper accounting records that disclose financial statements.
with reasonable accuracy at any time the Reviewing significant financial reporting Statement of directors responsibilities financial position of the parent company issues and judgements.
in respect of the annual report and and enable them to ensure that its financial the financial statements statements comply with the Companies Act The full terms of reference of the Audit The directors are responsible for preparing 1985.
They have general responsibility for Committee can be found on the Companys the Annual Report and the group and parent taking such steps as are reasonably open website or can be obtained from the company financial statements, in accordance to them to safeguard the assets of the Company Secretary.
with applicable law and regulations.
group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Governance Company law requires the directors to The Board has established an Audit prepare group and parent company Under applicable law and regulations, Committee the terms of reference of financial statements for each financial year.
the directors are also responsible for which comply with the requirements of Under that law the directors are required to preparing a Directors Report, Directors the Combined Code.
The Committee is prepare the group financial statements Remuneration Report and Corporate chaired by Michael Hartnall who is a in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by Governance Statement that comply chartered accountant and has recent the EU and have elected to prepare the with that law and those regulations.
experience of serving as a finance director parent company financial statements in of a major UK listed company.
In addition accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
Compliance statement to Mr Hartnall, there are a further four The Board has considered the Companys members of the Audit Committee all of whom The group financial statements are required compliance with the provisions of the are independent non-executive directors.
by law and IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, to Combined Code and confirms that in The Committee normally asks the Companys present fairly the financial position and the period since 16 June 2005 to the Chief Executive, Finance Director and Audit performance of the group: the Companies Act date of this report it was compliant with Director to attend its meetings together with 1985 provides in relation to such financial all such provisions.
Prior to this date it the Auditors.
However, during the year the statements that references in the relevant believes that it was compliant with all Committee did meet with no executive part of that Act to financial statements giving provisions with the exception of provision directors present and has also met with a true and fair view are references to their A.
This provision requires that at least just the Audit Director present and just achieving a fair presentation.
half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, the Auditors present.
should comprise non-executive directors The parent company financial statements determined by the Board to be independent.
The Committee has agreed an annual are required by law to give a true and fair view programme of matters to be covered by of the state of affairs of the parent company.
Audit Committee report the Committee and at least one of these Members: scheduled meetings will be hosted by one In preparing each of the group and parent Michael Hartnall Chairman of the Companys business units to allow company financial statements, the directors Dr Ulrich Cartellieri the Committee to meet local management are required to: Sir Peter Mason and discuss audit and control processes.
select suitable accounting policies Rt Hon Michael Portillo The Committee met seven times in 2005, and then apply them consistently: Roberto Quarta with two meetings hosted by business units.
54 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 The Chairman of the Committee reports by the Company within two years of the received a report from the Audit Director to the Board on the proceedings of all on the work undertaken by internal conclusion of a relevant audit: Committee meetings and the minutes audit and management responses to no qualified member of the worldwide of all meetings are made available to issues raised: and audit team at manager level or below is to Board members.
received presentations on the be employed by the Company without the Companys tax affairs, anti-bribery approval of the Group Finance Director: Activities compliance processes and pension and Since the beginning of 2005 the Audit funds investment arrangements.
Committee has undertaken the following no partner director of the Auditors not in order to discharge its responsibilities: The Committee recognises that one associated with the audit is to be reviewed the financial statements in the of its key responsibilities is reviewing employed by the Company without the 2004 and 2005 report and accounts and the risks to the Companys performance approval of the Group Finance Director the interim report issued in September and the security of its assets.
Twice a year and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
As part of this review the the Committee reviews the output from the The Committee believes that it is not Committee received a report from the Group process that is used to identify and appropriate to manage the level of non-audit Auditors on their audit of the annual evaluate risk.
This process also reports on fees by reference to a specific ratio of audit report and accounts and review of the the elimination or mitigation of risk and the to non-audit fees but rather it looks to interim report: relative level of risk within the Group.
This ensure that any non-audit work is subject to information is verified by the internal audit reviewed the output from the group-wide robust procurement processes and awarded function and made available to the Auditors.
process used to identify, evaluate subject to the guidelines detailed above.
and mitigate risks: The Company has established an employee The Committee has adopted a programme reviewed the effectiveness of the helpline, the BAE Systems Ethics Helpline, of undertaking a major review of the Companys internal controls and to provide a means by which employees Companys Auditors every three years disclosures made in the annual can raise concerns they may have about and in the years in between undertaking report and accounts on this matter: any action that they believe may be unlawful, a review to monitor their performance.
dishonest, harmful to others, against reviewed and agreed the scope of A major review has recently been completed.
company policy, improper business the audit work to be undertaken On the basis of this review the Committee conduct or is simply unacceptable by the Auditors: recommended to the Board that they behaviour.
During the year the Audit support the re-appointment of KPMG Audit monitored the work being undertaken Committee reviewed the effectiveness of Plc as the Companys Auditors.
The Board by the Company in preparation for the the helpline.
has agreed with this recommendation introduction of International Financial and consequently a resolution to this Reporting Standards IFRS and reviewed The Committee has formally reviewed effect will be put to shareholders at the the statement issued by the Company whether there are any factors that may Companys AGM.
on the restatement of financial prejudice the independence of the Auditors.
statements in accordance with IFRS: Part of this review involved the receipt of a On behalf of the Audit Committee letter from KPMG Audit Plc confirming that reviewed the draft circular sent to they believed they remained independent shareholders concerning the proposed Michael Hartnall within the meaning of the regulations on this acquisition of United Defense Industries: Audit Committee Chairman matter and their professional standards.
considered a report from the Auditors The Committee recognises that in addition 22 February 2006 on their review of controls across the to the statutory audit work undertaken by Company and received a report on the Companys Auditors there will be certain Nominations Committee report management action taken in response to work of a non-audit nature that is best Members: work undertaken by the Auditors in 2005: undertaken by the Auditors.
It believes Dick Olver Chairman that, provided suitable controls are in place, agreed the fees to be paid to the Auditors Phil Carroll doing this work does not compromise the for their audit of the 2005 accounts: Sir Peter Mason independence of the Auditors.
The reviewed its own effectiveness: Committee has agreed the following rules to Responsibilities control the nature and quantity of non-audit undertook an evaluation of the Reviewing regularly the structure, size work undertaken by the Auditors: performance of the internal audit function: and composition of the Board and making any non-audit work to be undertaken recommendations to the Board on any undertook an evaluation of the by the Auditors for fees in excess of changes desirable.
performance of the Auditors: 250,000 requires the authority of both the Group Finance Director and Identifying and nominating for the Boards agreed a programme of work for the the Chairman of the Audit Committee: approval suitable candidates to fill Companys internal audit function: vacancies for non-executive and, with no partner director of the Auditors the assistance of the Chief Executive, worldwide audit team is to be employed executive directors.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 55 Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Plan for the orderly succession of new The Committee agreed the process for Governance directors to the Board.
reviewing the continued appointment of In 2005 the Board established the CR certain non-executive directors, including Committee.
The Committee is chaired Recommending to the Board the Dr Cartellieri whose term of appointment will by Peter Weinberg an independent nonmembership and chairmanship of the exceed six years.
There are a further Audit and Remuneration committees.
three members of the CR Committee The full terms of reference of the On behalf of the Nominations Committee all of whom are also independent nonNominations Committee can be found on executive directors.
The Committee held the Companys website or can be obtained Dick Olver its first meeting in November last year.
Nominations Committee Chairman The Companys Group Legal Director, Group HR Director, Director of Corporate Governance 22 February 2006 Responsibility and Audit Director will attend The Board has established a Nominations meetings at the request of the Committee.
Committee that is chaired by the Chairman Corporate Responsibility Committee report of the Company, Dick Olver.
Whilst he is Members: Activities not deemed to be independent, the other Peter Weinberg Chairman The Committee has undertaken the following: two members of the Committee are Professor Sue Birley received a briefing on the evolution independent non-executive directors.
Phil Carroll and development of the Companys During the year Sue Birley, Ulrich Cartellieri, The Rt Hon Michael Portillo CR agenda.
This included the results Lord Hesketh and Michael Portillo also of a report on the perceptions and views served on the Committee.
The Committee Responsibilities of key CR stakeholders commissioned met seven times in 2005.
The following Terms of Reference for from : the Corporate Responsibility CR reviewed the significant CR risks to the Throughout 2005 a majority of its Committee were approved by the Company, the process used to identify members have been independent Board in September 2005: such risks and how they are managed: and non-executive directors.
assist the Board in overseeing the development of strategy and policy on reviewed and approved the 2005 Activities social, environmental and ethical issues: Corporate Responsibility Report.
The Committees key objectives are monitor and review the Companys The Committee also agreed the priority of to ensure that the Board comprises performance in managing social, issues for detailed review in 2006.
These individuals with the requisite skills, environmental, ethical and reputational include, but are not restricted to, ethical knowledge and experience to ensure risks.
Specifically, the Committee shall be policies and practices and health and safety that it is effective in managing a complex satisfied that appropriate policies, performance.
Additionally, the following international defence and aerospace systems and metrics are in place relating specific activities are to be undertaken by company.
To meet this objective the to workplace, community, environment the Committee on an annual basis: Committee has agreed that each year and marketplace issues.
These shall a review of the effectiveness and it will meet to review the succession plans include, but shall not necessarily be matters reported through the for existing members of the Board and restricted to, health and safety, workplace Companys Ethics Helpline: and consider whether or not it wishes to make policies, responsible supply chain recommendations to the Board regarding a review of the Companys safety and management, environmental impact, the composition of the Board.
Further environmental performance in addition business ethics and compliance with details of the succession planning activities to receiving detailed reports on safety anti-corruption laws and regulation: managed by the Committee can be found on and environment.
review the annual Corporate Responsibility Report, prior to approval On behalf of the Corporate Responsibility As previously reported, the Committee of the report by the Board: Committee identified a need to increase the number oversee and support key stakeholder of non-executive directors on the Board.
Peter Weinberg engagement on social, environmental This included the appointment of Corporate Responsibility Committee and ethical issues: and individuals with US experience who can Chairman help the Company with its transatlantic the Committee Chairman is required to strategy.
External search consultants report to the Board on the proceedings 22 February 2006 were appointed by the Committee to assist of the Committee on a regular basis.
As a result of this, three non-executive directors were The full terms of reference of the Corporate appointed during the year all of whom Responsibility Committee can be found on are US citizens.
There are now eight the Companys website or can be obtained independent non-executive directors from the Company Secretary.
on the Board and six executive directors.
