Glossary AGS DLO M777 Advanced Gun System: a 155mm gun United Kingdom Defence Logistics A lightweight 155mm field howitzer system being developed under the Organisation, part of the UK Ministry of see page 17.
Defence, providing logistic support to all MoD three armed forces.
AJT UKs Ministry of Defence.
Hawk Advanced Jet Trainer: an advanced DM2A4 Mistral RMV jet training and light combat aircraft.
Low altitude air defence missile.
ATTAC DoD NATO Availability Transformation: United States Department of Defense.
North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, the worlds Tornado Aircraft Contract.
Eurosystems most powerful regional defence alliance.
BONUS A transaction with Finmeccanica of Italy NAVSEA A sensor fused 155mm munition.
to secure control and clear management Naval Undersea Warfare Center in the responsibility for both companies Bradley United States.
European defence electronics businesses Tracked armoured fighting vehicles, which see page 21.
NEC fulfil critical infantry, cavalry, fire support, Networked Enabled Capability.
battle command and engineer roles for FCS the US Army.
Nimrod MRA4 The replacement Maritime and Patrol Attack C3I FREMM aircraft for the UKs Royal Air Force.
Command, Control, Communications Franco-Italian Frgate Europenne and Intelligence.
PAAMS Principal Anti-Air Missile System.
Aster C4ISR FRES PAAMS: a medium-range anti-aircraft vertical Command, Control, Communications and Future Rapid Effect System: The UK Ministry launching missile system based on the Computing C4, Intelligence, Surveillance of Defence MoD programme to provide Aster 15 and Aster 30 anti-missile missiles.
and Reconnaissance ISR : systems that the British Army with a family of mediumprovide a precise picture of the battlefield weight, network-enabled, air-deployable PCL in real-time, optimising the information armoured vehicles.
Performance Centred Leadership: a available for decision making.
C4ISR leadership and performance management IMCMS systems sense the environment, process system used throughout the Company.
Integrated Mine Counter Measures System data and combine it with existing knowledge combining Minehunting, Minesweeping, RG-31 for optimised mission plans.
Mine Disposal, Surveillance and Mine protected armoured personnel carrier.
CfPE Communication with other naval forces.
SEP Centre for Performance Excellence ISO14001 A modular multi-role vehicle system.
The standard for environmental SETAC COSYS management published by the International System Engineering and Technical A combat control system.
Standards Organisation, which specifies the Assistance Contract.
actual requirements for an environmental CV90 management system.
SHE An armoured infantry fighting vehicle Safety, health and environment.
developed by BAE Systems Land Systems IT Hagglunds to meet international demand.
Spearfish An advanced heavyweight torpedo in service DD X JSF with the UK Royal Navy.
A next-generation destroyer for the US Navy.
F-35 Joint Strike Fighter see page 19.
UAV DIS LCM Unmanned Air Vehicles.
The Defence Industrial Strategy paper, Lifecycle Management: a process and published by the UK government in December control environment within which the UCAV 2005 following consultation with industry, Companys projects are executed.
recognises the skills and capabilities that LRLAP USAF will be needed to equip and support the Long Range Land Attack Projectile: United States Air Force.
UK armed forces and ensure the defence a system being developed under industry remains a world-leading sector.
M113 Armoured personnel carriers, medical, command and control, and engineering mortar launching vehicles.
162 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 Shareholder feedback Thank you to everyone who took the time and effort to provide feedback on last years Annual Report.
In essence: you are spending more time reading the Annual Report: you firmly believe that the report improves your understanding of BAE Systems: you would like more photos, fewer acronyms and simpler language: you have also requested more information about the market environment we operate in especially our relationship with UK and US governments, possible future strategy developments especially in the US, and potential risks especially pension fund deficits.
We hope the design, layout and copy in this Annual Report has helped to address these requirements.
If you would like to give us any feedback on this years Annual Report, please send your written comments to our investor relations team at: BAE Systems plc 6 Carlton Gardens London United Kingdom SW1Y 5AD or by e-mail to andy.
com BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 163 164 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 Operating and financial review BAE Systems at a glance BAE Systems is the premier transatlantic defence and aerospace company delivering a full range of products and services for air, land and naval forces as well as advanced electronics, information technology solutions and customer support services.
Electronics, Land & Armaments Programmes Customer Solutions Integrated Systems Commercial Intelligence & Support & Support & Partnerships Aerospace Principal operations An industry leader in a variety of A global leader in the design, Comprises the Companys air Provides support solutions for current Comprises a portfolio of highComprises the Companys 20% Principal operations military communications, electronic development, production and throughsystems, naval ships and submarines and future customer requirements, technology defence systems interest in Airbus together with the identification, navigation and guidance life service support of armoured activities together with the Companys addressing the trend within armed businesses: Integrated System Aerostructures business and the systems, and a provider of network combat vehicles, major and minor participation in the UKs Future forces to work more closely with Technologies: Underwater Systems: regional aircraft asset management centric warfare solutions and a broad calibre naval guns, missile launchers, Carrier programme.
industry to optimise their military 37.5% interest in MBDA: 20.5% and support activities.
range of support solutions, including canisters, artillery systems and capability in the most effective manner.
interest in Saab: and 50% interest major ship repair activities for the intelligent munitions.
Key capabilities include the integration in Gripen International.
and delivery of effective supply chain and logistics management.
CS&S is the prime contractor on the Al Yamamah programme.
Main operating regions US, UK Europe US, UK, Sweden, South Africa UK UK, Saudi Arabia, Australia UK, Sweden, France, Germany, Italy UK, France, Germany, Spain, US Main operating regions Major markets US, Global US, UK Europe UK UK Europe, Middle East, Australia UK Europe Global Major markets Contribution Contribution 23% 8% 18% 18% 12% 21% to 2005 Group sales to 2005 Group sales includes six months of United Defense Key points Sustained leadership positions Transatlantic growth 37 Typhoon aircraft delivered Delivery of Saudi strategy on track Continued restructuring of Strong Airbus order intake Key points in electronic warfare and military with acquisition of in the year 12 to UK RAF Compound construction European business portfolio from 2005 from 2005 First flight of A380 long-range airliner Saudi joint venture communications secured US Air United Defense Industries Eurosystems transaction First flight of UK Hawk Advanced Force mission planning contract company formed completed Airbus cost reduction programme Global land systems Jet Trainer aircraft achieved early Increasing employment Integrated System on track Acquisition of largest US nonbusiness established Successful delivery of F-35 JSF of Saudi nationals Technologies formed nuclear ship repair business Airbus new product development Key contracts secured airframe assemblies Saab stake reduced to 20.5% Government to government programmes underway Successful integration of 2004 Bradley reset and upgrade Atlas Elektronik sale agreed Understanding Document signed on Type 45 first of class launched acquisitions Danish CV90, US RG-31, M777 Ongoing losses in Regional Aircraft Saudi armed forces modernisation in February 2006 Revised Gripen International Successful flight test of infrared UK Future Rapid Effect System Delivery of UK partnered marketing arrangements with Saab Aerostructures disposal announced Landing Ship Dock Auxiliary missile countermeasures system FRES demonstrator award support growth strategy first ship delivered for commercial airliners UK cost base being addressed Improved performance from Australian business Location in this report page 24-25 page 26-27 page 28-29 page 30-31 page 32-33 page 34-35 Location in this report BAE SYSTEMS plc Annual Report 2005 BAE SYSTEMS plc Annual Report 2005 6 Carlton Gardens London SW1Y 5AD United Kingdom Telephone 44 0 1252 373232 Registered in England and Wales No.
com Bradley A3 In 2005 BAE Systems acquired United Defense, who have produced the Bradley Combat System for over 20 years.
The Bradley family of vehicles is a key vehicle system for the US Army supporting a variety of missions.
Delivering real advantage BAE SYSTEMS plc Annual Report 2005 BAE SYSTEMS plc Annual Report 2005 6 Carlton Gardens London SW1Y 5AD United Kingdom Telephone 44 0 1252 373232 Registered in England and Wales No.
Delivering real advantage BAE Systems is an international company BAE SYSTEMS plc Annual Review 2005 CONTENTS 6 Carlton Gardens engaged in the development, delivery and support Results in brief, London SW1Y 5AD highlights and outlook 1 United Kingdom of advanced defence and aerospace systems in Telephone 44 0 1252 373232 Chairmans letter 2 the air, on land, at sea and in space.
The Company Chief Executives review 3 Registered in England and Wales No.
1470151 Market overview 5 designs, manufactures and supports military Group strategy framework 6 Website details aircraft, surface ships, submarines, combat www.
com Embed a high performance vehicles, radar, avionics, communications, culture across the Company 7 Win profitable new business and electronics and guided weapon systems.
It is a optimise value from our order book 8 pioneer in technology with a heritage stretching Grow our export business from a strong transatlantic business base 9 back hundreds of years.
It is at the forefront of Increase UK US industrial innovation, working to develop the next generation technology sharing 10 Optimise our business portfolio 11 of intelligent defence and security systems.
Business portfolio actions 12 Electronics, Intelligence & Support 14 BAE Systems has major operations across five Land & Armaments 16 continents and customers in some 130 countries.
Programmes 18 1 The Company employs approximately 100,000 Customer Solutions & Support 20 Integrated Systems people and generates annual sales in excess of & Partnerships 22 15 billion through its wholly-owned and equity Commercial Aerospace 24 accounted investment operations.
Summarised financial review 26 Corporate responsibility 27 1 including share of employees of equity accounted investments Board of directors 28 Corporate governance 30 Summarised financial statements 33 Auditors statement 36 Shareholder information 37 Delivering real advantage Important note This Annual Review is a summary of the information in the full Annual Report of BAE Systems plc.
It does not contain sufficient information to allow a full understanding of the results of the Group and state of affairs of the Company or of the Group, and of their policies and arrangements concerning directors remuneration.
For further information, the full Annual Report should be consulted.
This can be found on the Companys website, www.
Alternatively, copies are available, free of charge, from: The Company Secretary BAE Systems plc 6 Carlton Gardens London SW1Y 5AD If in future years you wish to receive the full Annual Report you should write to the Companys registrars, Cover image Lloyds TSB Registrars, at the address shown on page 37.
Bradley A3 BAE Systems is an international company BAE SYSTEMS plc Annual Review 2005 CONTENTS 6 Carlton Gardens engaged in the development, delivery and support Results in brief, London SW1Y 5AD highlights and outlook 1 United Kingdom of advanced defence and aerospace systems in Telephone 44 0 1252 373232 Chairmans letter 2 the air, on land, at sea and in space.
Bradley A3 Operating and financial review BAE Systems at a glance Shareholder information BAE Systems is the premier transatlantic defence and aerospace company delivering a full range of products and services for air, land and naval forces as well as advanced electronics, information technology solutions and customer support services.
Registered office Dividend reinvestment plan Visit the website for more details: 6 Carlton Gardens www.
co. uk The company offers holders of its ordinary London shares the option to elect to have their SW1Y 5AD Details of software and equipment dividend reinvested in shares purchased Electronics, Land & Armaments Programmes Customer Solutions Integrated Systems Commercial United Kingdom requirements are given on the website.
in the market instead of cash.
If you would Intelligence & Support & Support & Partnerships Aerospace Telephone: 44 0 1252 373232 like to make this election, please request Shareholder dealing service Company website: www.
com a dividend reinvestment plan mandate Hoare Govett Limited offers a low cost from our registrars: Registered in England & Wales, postal dealing service enabling UK resident No.
1470151 shareholders to buy or sell BAE Systems plc Lloyds TSB Registrars shares.
Basic commission is 1%, subject to The Causeway, Worthing Registrars a minimum charge of 15.00.
If you require West Sussex BN99 6DA Lloyds TSB Registrars 0140 further information please contact: Telephone: 0870 241 3018 The Causeway, Worthing Telephone number from outside the UK: West Sussex BN99 6DA Hoare Govett Limited 44 121 415 7058 United Kingdom Telephone: 44 0 20 7678 8300 American Depositary Receipts Telephone: 0870 600 3982 44 121 415 7058 from outside the UK This notice has been approved by Hoare The BAE Systems plc American Depositary Principal operations An industry leader in a variety of A global leader in the design, Comprises the Companys air Provides support solutions for current Comprises a portfolio of highComprises the Companys 20% Principal operations Govett Limited which is authorised and Receipts ADRs are traded on the Over military communications, electronic development, production and throughsystems, naval ships and submarines and future customer requirements, technology defence systems interest in Airbus together with the identification, navigation and guidance life service support of armoured activities together with the Companys addressing the trend within armed businesses: Integrated System Aerostructures business and the If you have any queries regarding your regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
The Counter market OTC under the systems, and a provider of network combat vehicles, major and minor participation in the UKs Future forces to work more closely with Technologies: Underwater Systems: regional aircraft asset management shareholding, please contact the registrars.
One ADR represents centric warfare solutions and a broad calibre naval guns, missile launchers, Carrier programme.
ShareGift four BAE Systems plc ordinary shares.
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. is the depositary.
and delivery of effective supply chain charity donation scheme for shareholders and logistics management.
CS&S with small parcels of shares which may If you should have any queries, is the prime contractor on the Al Yamamah programme.
Details of the please contact: Shareview service scheme are available from ShareGift JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A.
Main operating regions US, UK Europe US, UK, Sweden, South Africa UK UK, Saudi Arabia, Australia UK, Sweden, France, Germany, Italy UK, France, Germany, Spain, US Main operating regions The Shareview service from our registrar, at www.
org or by telephone JPMorgan Service Center Lloyds TSB Registrars, gives shareholders: on 020 7337 0501.
PO Box 3408 direct access to data held on their behalf South Hackensack NJ 07606-3408 Major markets US, Global US, UK Europe UK UK Europe, Middle East, Australia UK Europe Global Major markets Share price information on the share register including recent USA share movements and dividend details: The middle market price of the Companys Toll free telephone number: 800 990 1135 ordinary shares on 31 December 2005 Telephone number from outside the US: the ability to change their address or was 381.75p, the range during the year 1 201 680 6630 dividend payment instructions on-line.
com to 2005 Group sales to 2005 Group sales To sign up for Shareview you need the Daily share prices are available in the UK Email: adr@jpmorgan.
com shareholder reference printed on your on the FT Cityline service as follows: proxy form or dividend stationery.
There Financial calendar is no charge to register.
When you register BAE Systems plc ordinary shares Financial year end 31 December with the site, you can register your preferred Annual General Meeting 4 May 2006 Telephone: 0906 003 1890 format post or e-mail for shareholder includes six months of United Defense BAE Systems plc preference shares Preference shares communications.
If you select e-mail conversion date 31 May 2006 Telephone: 0906 003 5174 as your mailing preference, you will be Key points Sustained leadership positions Transatlantic growth 37 Typhoon aircraft delivered Delivery of Saudi strategy on track Continued restructuring of Strong Airbus order intake Key points Calls are charged at 60p per minute at all times 2005 final ordinary in electronic warfare and military with acquisition of in the year 12 to UK RAF Compound construction European business portfolio sent shareholder communications, such from 2005 from 2005 First flight of A380 long-range airliner dividend payable 1 June 2006 Saudi joint venture communications secured US Air United Defense Industries Eurosystems transaction First flight of UK Hawk Advanced as proxy forms and annual interim results Force mission planning contract company formed completed Airbus cost reduction programme Alternatively you can view teletext 2006 half yearly preference Global land systems Jet Trainer aircraft achieved early by e-mail instead of post, as long as this Increasing employment Integrated System on track dividend payable 3 July 2006 Acquisition of largest US nonbusiness established or a similar service.
Successful delivery of F-35 JSF of Saudi nationals Technologies formed option is available.
nuclear ship repair business Airbus new product development 2006 interim Key contracts secured airframe assemblies Saab stake reduced to 20.5% Government to government programmes underway Successful integration of 2004 Bradley reset and upgrade Atlas Elektronik sale agreed results announcement September 2006 Understanding Document signed on Type 45 first of class launched If you have your dividends paid straight to acquisitions Danish CV90, US RG-31, M777 Ongoing losses in Regional Aircraft Saudi armed forces modernisation 2006 interim ordinary in February 2006 Revised Gripen International your bank account, and you have selected Successful flight test of infrared UK Future Rapid Effect System Delivery of UK partnered marketing arrangements with Saab Aerostructures disposal announced dividend payable November 2006 Landing Ship Dock Auxiliary missile countermeasures system FRES demonstrator award e-mail as your mailing preference, you can support growth strategy first ship delivered 2006 half yearly preference for commercial airliners also collect your tax voucher electronically.
UK cost base being addressed Improved performance dividend payable 2 January 2007 from Australian business Instead of receiving the paper tax voucher, 2006 full year results you will be notified by e-mail with details of preliminary announcement February 2007 Location in this report page 14-15 page 16-17 page 18-19 page 20-21 page 22-23 page 24-25 Location in this report how to download your electronic version.
report and accounts April 2007 However, if you choose post as your 2006 final ordinary preference, you will be sent paper dividend payable June 2007 documents as usual.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 37 Operating and financial review BAE Systems at a glance Shareholder information BAE Systems is the premier transatlantic defence and aerospace company delivering a full range of products and services for air, land and naval forces as well as advanced electronics, information technology solutions and customer support services.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 37 Results in brief, highlights and outlook Results in brief 1 Results from continuing operations 2005 2004 2 Sales 15,411m 13,222m 3 EBITA 1,182m 1,016m Operating profit 900m 774m 4 Underlying earnings per share 22.5p 17.4p 5 Basic earnings per share 18.3p 14.2p Other results including discontinued operations Dividend per share 10.3p 9.5p Cash inflow from operating activities 2,099m 2,350m Net debt as defined by the Group 1,277m 668m 6 Order book 59.8bn 50.1bn Highlights Delivering US growth strategy Global land systems business established Programmes business profitability and risk profile improved Growth from UK MoD partnered support European business portfolio restructuring Strong Airbus order intake Strong operating cash flow 4 Underlying earnings per share up 29.3% at 22.5p Dividend increased 8.4% to 10.3p per share for the year Outlook Looking forward to 2006, we anticipate an We expect to translate operating profit into improved performance from our defence operating cash flow, other than some small businesses with modest organic growth utilisation of customer advances.
We intend and a full year contribution from the former to make one-off cash contributions to the United Defense activities.
We also pension schemes in 2006. anticipate an increased contribution from the commercial aerospace sector.
1 as restated under International Financial Reporting Standards 2 including share of equity accounted investments sales 3 earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 4 earnings per share excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, and uplift on acquired inventories 5 basic earnings per share in accordance with International Accounting Standard 33 6 including share of equity accounted investments order books and after the elimination of intra-group orders of 0.9bn 2004 2.6bn BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 1 Chairmans letter The executive team and all employees have demonstrated their ability to deliver results and I applaud their hard work and dedication.
Social, environmental and ethical aspects of a companys business operations are increasingly of interest to a broad stakeholder community.
In order to advance our leadership in this area, the Board has established a new Corporate Responsibility Committee chaired by Peter Weinberg.
A summary of the Companys corporate responsibility performance is included in this Review, supplemented by a detailed Corporate Responsibility Review for 2005, published separately.
The Board is also responsible for setting realistic, yet stretching, targets for management with appropriate incentives for both baseline and stretch performance.
These targets include both financial and non-financial objectives and further Dick Olver details are included in the summarised Chairman Remuneration Report.
The executive team and all employees With a combination of effective good project execution combined to make have demonstrated their ability to deliver strategy, continued good programme 2005 a landmark year for BAE Systems.
results and I applaud their hard work execution and achievement of key and dedication.
Looking forward, the business objectives, including a In addition to overseeing Company strategy, Company will be operating in a time focus on winning future business, the Board is responsible for monitoring the of challenging defence budgets and 2005 was a successful year for Companys performance, maintaining the our top priority is to deliver continuing BAE Systems.
governance framework, overseeing performance improvement.
succession planning for the Board and I believe that BAE Systems has evolved a senior executives, setting appropriate The Board is recommending an increased comprehensive and robust process for standards of conduct and monitoring final dividend of 6.3p per share, making a developing strategy, including appropriate compliance with those standards.
At this level the review and challenge by the Board.
The annual dividend is covered 2.2 times by Companys strategy, described in detail later Part of my role as Chairman is to ensure underlying earnings from continuing in this report, reflects the accomplishment the Board has the required skills and operations 2004 1.8 times.
Subject to of key objectives in 2005 and establishes experience to carry out these responsibilities shareholder approval at the 2006 Annual the framework for continued performance in a large international business.
With the General Meeting, the dividend will be paid improvement and growth in future.
increasing importance of BAE Systems on 1 June 2006 to holders of ordinary operations in the United States, which shares registered on 21 April 2006.
There were several noteworthy developments now manage 35% of sales, we have over the past twelve months: first, the appointed three new non-executive acquisition of United Defense in June was a directors to the Board to provide further step change in the implementation of our US perspective and experience.
US strategy and establishes BAE Systems as the worlds second largest land systems Peter Weinberg was a senior director of company: second, the Understanding Goldman Sachs Inc. and is a dual US UK Document signed between the governments citizen: Phil Carroll is the former chairman Dick Olver of the UK and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and chief executive officer of Fluor Chairman establishes a framework for modernising the Corporation and is a US citizen: and Roberto Saudi armed forces, including the supply of Quarta is the chairman of BBA Group plc, 22 February 2006 Typhoon aircraft: and finally, the publication a partner of the private equity firm Clayton, in December of the UK governments Dubilier & Rice and a dual US Italian citizen.
Defence Industrial Strategy recognised the key position of the UK defence industry in With the addition of these three new supporting the UKs armed forces.
These directors, the Board is well equipped to developments, combined with good progress monitor performance and oversee the on resolving pension funding issues and Companys future strategic development.
2 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 Chief Executives review the Defence Industrial Strategy sets challenges for both the MoD and industry.
Addressing pension deficits is a challenge.
Reduced discount rates used to value scheme liabilities and the need to address changes in assumptions for increased lifeexpectancy combined to create a significant deficit in the funding of the Companys pension schemes.
The Company has recently finalised a plan for the largest of its funds, the Main Scheme.
The plan addresses the deficit through increased contributions and benefit concessions from employee scheme members and contributions of cash and property assets from the Company.
These actions enable the Company to maintain Mike Turner this defined benefit pension scheme for Chief Executive existing scheme members, at a cost acceptable to the Company, eliminating the substantial funding deficit and introducing BAE Systems has performed well The outlook for our UK Programmes flexibility into the benefit structure to selfagainst its objectives in 2005. business is now good.
Following agreement fund any further increases in employee Financial results have been delivered on the way forward for the Typhoon longevity going forward.
in line with our plan and further programme, it is now making a significant significant steps have been taken to contribution to the Companys performance.
A continuing success for the Company implement the Companys strategy.
Other UK platform programmes, such as the is the provision of defence support In particular, the acquisition of Type 45 destroyer, Nimrod MRA4, Hawk and solutions.
The Company has a large and United Defense builds on our strong Astute submarine, are also expected to growing business providing support for defence technology business in the progress to make good contributions when armed forces and government agencies.
United States and complements our they transition from design to production.
Through-life support and upgrades for established position as the largest in-service defence equipment is expected defence company in the UK Alongside the good operational execution to become an increasingly important and Europe.
now being delivered we continue to strive to activity for BAE Systems as air, naval further embed a high performance culture and land sector platforms are expected The United Defense acquisition has across the Company.
to remain in service for many decades elevated BAE Systems to the second largest and require progressive upgrades in supplier in the global land systems market.
The formation of the Centre for Performance capability with advances in technology.
The former United Defense activities have Excellence will help ensure consistency of been integrated with BAE Systems Land performance measurement and provide In partnership with the MoDs Defence Systems, which comprised the former leadership and focus for the sharing of Logistics Organisation DLO the Company RO Defence and Alvis activities including best practice across the Company.
has continued to develop and grow its Hagglunds.
Integration of these operations support solutions activities for the UKs has resulted in a single US headquartered In December, the Company welcomed the armed forces.
The successful delivery global land systems business with publication by the UK government of the of cost savings, together with improved operations in the US, UK, Sweden and Defence Industrial Strategy following equipment availability across a number South Africa.
of pilot air systems activities, has enabled The strategy paper recognises the need the Company to broaden the scope of its In 2005, the Company has continued to for government and industry to work in DLO support activities to the UK land sector.
improve performance through a combination partnership to secure the best technologies Further support opportunities have been of good project execution, cost and to meet the needs of the UKs armed forces.
identified with the potential to deliver productivity improvements within the The paper also identifies the skills and further cost savings and improved system business operations together with the capabilities required to equip and support availability for our UK customer and to benefit of actions over recent years to the UK armed forces whilst ensuring the UK deliver future profitable growth for the eliminate inappropriate risk and improve maintains a world class defence industry.
returns, especially in our UK Ministry of BAE Systems recognises that implementing Defence MoD Programmes business.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 3 Financial results have been delivered in line with our plan and further significant steps have been taken to implement the Companys strategy.
BAE Systems continues to provide extensive The AMS joint venture was restructured We are successfully executing our strategy.
support in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, with BAE Systems acquiring the UK based We have further strengthened our position in principally to the Royal Saudi Air Force, operations of AMS and Finmeccanica the United States, restructured our portfolio building on a relationship spanning several acquiring the Italian operations.
In a related of business interests in Europe and, through decades.
We employ some 4,600 people transaction BAE Systems sold its UK based a combination of factors, we now have a within the Kingdom on wide-ranging sensor systems and electronic warfare much enhanced outlook for our business in activities including flying training and avionics activities to Finmeccanica.
We are delivering shareholder value support for aircraft previously supplied.
agreement includes the deferred sale of by being the premier transatlantic defence The Company has recently invested in a retained 25% interest in the resulting and aerospace company.
facilities to enhance in-Kingdom capability enlarged avionics business, Selex.
The for the maintenance and sustainment of wholly owned UK activities of the former We are now a very well balanced Company, capability of in-service aircraft.
AMS business have been combined with not overly dependent on any one sector but BAE Systems other C4ISR activities to form generating good returns for shareholders In December 2005, the governments of Integrated System Technologies Insyte.
from a broad base of operations in the the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the UK worlds key defence and aerospace markets.
signed an Understanding Document, The integration of systems into digital intended to establish a greater partnership networks, or Network Enabled Capability BAE Systems is set to deliver good growth in modernising the Saudi Arabian armed NEC, is transforming defence capabilities.
and we look forward with confidence to forces and developing close service-toInsyte is working in partnership with the UK building on our particularly strong service contacts especially through joint MoD, to deliver transformational capabilities performance in 2005 with continued training and exercises.
Under the terms of to the UK armed forces through the good progress through 2006. the Understanding, the two governments application of emerging NEC technologies.
recognise the requirement to provide enhanced capabilities to existing military The sale of Atlas Elektronik, the naval assets and ensure that they can be systems business based in Germany, supported by local industry.
It is also jointly to ThyssenKrupp and EADS was intended that Typhoon aircraft will replace agreed in December 2005 and is expected Tornado Air Defence Variant aircraft and to complete in the first half of 2006, other aircraft in service with the Royal Saudi subject to regulatory approval.
The details of these arrangements Chief Executive are confidential.
BAE Systems has valuable interests in the MBDA guided weapons joint venture 22 February 2006 Support is also now a substantial and Airbus.
component of our business in the US.
Following the acquisition of United Defense, MBDA continues to perform well with its marine repair business has been added good order intake.
A further step in the to the Companys established US Navy and consolidation of the European guided federal systems support activities to form weapons industry was achieved with the an integrated support solutions business in agreement to integrate fully the German the US.
missile business LFK into MBDA.
Drawing on the depth of experience now Airbus produced another strong financial residing on both sides of the Atlantic, a performance despite a continued high level cross-company support solutions council of investment in new product development.
has been formed to share best practice.
Order intake was substantially ahead of plan, benefiting from strength in a number A number of actions have been taken to of markets including China, India and the rationalise the Companys portfolio of Middle East.
Aircraft demand has also activities in Europe and to manage nonbeen stimulated by the enhanced strategic businesses for optimum value.
operating economics of new products such as the A380 and A350 airliners In March 2005, BAE Systems agreed a now under development.
reduced involvement in marketing the Gripen combat aircraft and reduced its equity In summary, we have had a good year, interest in Saab AB from 34.2% to 20.5%.
delivering a strong set of financial results and meeting our overall objectives for 2005.
4 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 Market overview Defence Forecast defence budget by major region This evolution is expected to see the scope Global defence spending grew by eight of industrys role change as the MoD seeks US$ billions in constant 2006 prices percent in 2004 among the fifteen largest long-term partnering relationships to deliver 1,200 military nations.
through-life capability management as indicated in the recently published MoD 900 BAE Systems is heavily reliant upon the Defence Industrial Strategy.
levels of funding committed by the domestic 600 governments where the Companys Although defence spending in some western 300 operations are based, principally the US and European nations is static, the region still UK.
In addition, export markets are defined offers significant market opportunities for 0 and regulated by those governments.
In particular, countries in 2000 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 central Europe are investing in their armed Rest of world The US represents 45% of the world forces as they move from Warsaw Pact Europe defence market.
It is, and will remain, one equipment to NATO standard equipment.
US of BAE Systems key markets, offering Source: BAE Systems internal analysis programme scale and a high level of The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is another The US represents over 45% of the total forecast investment in research and development.
major market with the Company serving global defence spend including equipment, Although growth in US defence spending as prime contractor for the UK governmentpersonnel and operating costs to 2010. is expected to slow, the Company is well to-government agreement.
BAE Systems placed to support the US Department of provides support to the Royal Saudi Air Aerospace Defenses likely emphasis on force Force, the Kingdoms ground defence sustainment and affordable transformation.
The market for large commercial jets is forecast to continue to grow on the back In the UK, BAE Systems is seeing the benefit A number of Asian countries represent of rising passenger travel.
Annual revenue from its work over recent years to eliminate growth market opportunities and passenger kilometres are forecast to 1 inappropriate risk and improve returns from BAE Systems has a long and grow by approximately 5% through to 2023. its Programmes business with the UK growing relationship with India.
The Company The market in 2005 was particularly buoyant, with strong order intake for has continued to deliver wide-ranging In Australia, BAE Systems has continued support activities in partnership with the to build on its position as the Australian larger jet aircraft across the industry.
MoDs Defence Logistics Organisation and Defence Force capability partner of choice the armed forces.
in integrated military systems and BAE Systems supports a number of support contracts.
regional aircraft supplied in prior years.
The UK customer is undergoing a The leasing market for these smaller transformation, driven by the need for South Africa is another market which aircraft remains difficult.
greater agility, affordability and more continues to offer opportunity to 1 Airbus forecast December 2004 effective technology exploitation.
BAE Systems and where the Company Fundamentally, this transformation has in-country capability.
is a shift towards integrated capability and managed through-life, to deliver the required military effect.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 5 Group strategy framework Group Strategy To create sustainable shareholder value by being the premier transatlantic defence and aerospace company Group Strategic Objectives Embed a high performance culture across the Company Win profitable new business and optimise value from our order book Grow our export business from a strong transatlantic business base Increase US UK industrial technology sharing Optimise our business portfolio Business Portfolio Actions Grow our business Establish in the Grow our global land Grow our global Grow and maximise Manage non-strategic in the United States UK sustainably systems business support, solutions the value of Airbus businesses for profitable through-life and services optimal value businesses in Air, businesses Land and Sea Integrated Business Plans BAE Systems strategy is to create sustainable shareholder value by being the premier transatlantic defence and aerospace company.
This is delivered through Group Strategic Objectives, Business Portfolio Actions and Integrated Business Plans.
The five Group Strategic Objectives are owned by the Executive Committee and applied across the Group.
The Business Portfolio Actions are championed by relevant Executive Committee members and are delivered either separately or jointly by the businesses.
Many of our businesses now support more than one portfolio action to encourage them to work together across business boundaries.
What do we mean when we say Why transatlantic?
Transatlantic relates to our most While defence remains our core market, Shareholder value means growth in our important markets.
It means having a our historically strong presence in the share price and dividends.
Sustainable presence in both the UK Europe and in the aerospace sector, through our holding means continually reviewing the portfolio US.
The US, by a very large margin, is the in Airbus, is a major contributor to the of businesses and building a consistent worlds largest defence and aerospace value of the Company.
track record of delivery to our shareholders.
market and the largest investor in It also means continually improving the technology.
This technology investment, Over half of the Companys total sales are consistency and quality of application as well as the scale of the market, is key now from electronic systems, software and of our best practice processes and the to our drive to grow in the US.
Defence platform programmes skills of our people to enable us to home markets, Sweden, Saudi Arabia, contribute roughly a quarter and the balance deliver on our commitments to customers South Africa and Australia, complement comes from the commercial aerospace and shareholders.
On both sides of the Atlantic, defence now increasingly includes Homeland Security markets.
The following pages 7 to 13 describe how we are delivering the strategic objectives and actions that underpin the Group strategy.
6 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 Group strategic objectives Developing employees The Developing You programme is at the heart of the continual training and skills development that BAE Systems provides for employees.
In 2005 over 1,350 engineers participated in Engineering Developing You, a framework which maps engineering capability to an individuals career aspirations and BAE Systems business needs.
Developing You now spans most of the business functions and comprises a bespoke range of training modules, many of which are accredited by leading universities and professional bodies.
Embed a high performance culture across the Company A high performance culture within BAE Systems is focused on embedding A further aspect of the high performance BAE Systems will be achieved by a high performance culture by consistent culture is driven through Performance ensuring that: application of its core assets of governance, Centred Leadership PCL.
This is a processes and values, and identifying and leadership and performance management the Company operates with sharing best practices across the Company.
system, introduced in 2002, that establishes clear governance a clear link between performance and businesses and employees To help achieve this strategic objective, in rewards.
It establishes an underpinning have clear objectives 2005 the Company formed the Centre for competency and behaviour set for business Performance Excellence CfPE, which leaders, enabling all leaders to understand best practices are shared is now playing a key role in accelerating what high performance means for them across the Company the pace of change to achieve higher and their teams.
The system continues to benchmark core processes levels of performance.
be extended to a wider set of managers are consistently applied to ensure that the principles of PCL are The CfPE is introducing a set of Group-wide embedded further throughout the Company.
appropriate values and measures, so that business data can be standards are applied monitored in a comparable and transparent Consistently delivering good programme way, facilitating assessment of progress execution is what drives customer towards achieving our Group strategy.
satisfaction, financial growth, and In 2006, the CfPE will focus on identifying ultimately returns to shareholders.
and sharing best practices, in order to foster performance improvement across the Company.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 7 Group strategic objectives Type 45 HMS Daring was launched on 1 February 2006.
It is the first of a planned class of up to eight Type 45 destroyers for the Royal Navy, and will be the UKs next generation anti-air warfare destroyer.
Daring has been assembled from large pre-outfitted megablock modules, increasing build efficiency and driving down construction man-hours.
The division of work between shipyards across the UK, at BAE Systems facilities at Scotstoun and Govan in Glasgow and VT Shipbuilding in Portsmouth, has pioneered a new way of building complex warships.
Win profitable new business and optimise value from our order book BAE Systems has had considerable BAE Systems is determined to build on its The Companys programme execution recent success in establishing an strong market position by continuing to win is being achieved by the consistent appropriate balance of risk and business with an acceptable balance of risk application of our Lifecycle Management reward in its order book, creating and return for shareholders.
LCM lies at the heart of a sound foundation for growth and made in this regard, particularly with major the Companys project management.
It enabling the Company to focus on UK programmes, will be sustained for future provides a powerful and flexible process winning profitable new business.
contracting arrangements, including the and control environment within which anticipated production contracts for Nimrod to execute projects.
The LCM process maritime patrol aircraft, Astute submarines considers the whole life of projects from and additional Type 45 destroyers.
inception to delivery into service and eventual disposal and provides the A key objective is to deliver greater value framework for the application of best to shareholders from our order book practice programme management.
by applying best practice, tools and processes in a consistently efficient A key enabler to winning new business is manner throughout the Company.
establishing a track record of delivering projects on time, to specification and cost.
8 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 M777 The M777 is the worlds first 155mm howitzer weighing under 10,000lbs and meets requirements for rapid deployment and accurate artillery fire support.
It has been designed and developed in both the US and the UK and has been selected by the US Marine Corps and US Army as their next generation medium force weapon.
M777 is now in full rate production and units have already been delivered to the US Marine Corps, US Army and Canadian Armed Forces.
Grow our export business from a strong transatlantic business base Transatlantic markets remain at From a strong transatlantic base we shall This created one of the worlds leading the core of our strategy given our continue to export to, and work in, markets design, manufacture and support providers leading position in the UK Europe around the world where we can deliver good of land and armament systems.
Less than and strong and growing presence in shareholder returns.
We prioritise key export two years ago, the Company had a small the US.
These markets will continue markets and identify potential products and foothold in this sector.
BAE Systems is the to shape our capabilities and our services which will be better suited to those worlds second largest global land systems product and services portfolio and markets.
In addition, the expansion of business, with an annualised turnover in form the basis from which export existing home markets, where our business excess of 2bn.
operations are located, and identification of new ones is a strategic objective for 2006.
Both organic growth and growth through acquisitions will continue to be pursued The acquisition of United Defense was a key in the US.
step in our strategy to build BAE Systems position as the premier transatlantic With its transatlantic foundation defence and aerospace company.
The BAE Systems is well positioned to grow at Company is now well placed to support the very highest level of technology and the US militarys growing emphasis on capability in the US whilst also delivering interoperability, affordable transformation value from its strong technology base, and force sustainment.
In particular, the capabilities and market position in the UK acquisition enables us to address the and its other home markets of Sweden, increasing emphasis on land systems in Saudi Arabia, South Africa and Australia.
emerging customer requirements, including the refurbishment, upgrade and long-term support of existing vehicles and equipment.
Following the acquisition of United Defense, we combined our existing land systems activities in the UK, Sweden and South Africa with United Defense to form the Land & Armaments business group.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 9 Group strategic objectives F-35 Joint Strike Fighter JSF BAE Systems JSF involvement includes delivering the System Development and Demonstration phase of the programme involving airframe assemblies and mission systems.
The aft fuselage and empennage for each aircraft are being designed, engineered and built at the BAE Systems Samlesbury site in the UK.
The JSF will set new standards for assembly precision and pace.
Innovative precision machining techniques help ensure that the JSF meets its stealth requirement.
Accuracy is achieved through digital design and manufacturing controls pioneered by BAE Systems.
Increase UK US industrial technology sharing The US and the UK have a long The UK governments Defence Industrial BAE Systems therefore fully supports the history of defence industrial Strategy, published on 15 December 2005, UK governments efforts to establish a cooperation that has provided made clear the importance of transatlantic technology sharing agreement with the significant benefits to both defence industrial cooperation in enabling US government that will enable government countries.
BAE Systems has itself both UK and US Armed Forces to acquire and industry on both sides of the Atlantic played an important role in that more effective military capabilities, at better to work more effectively together both to transatlantic cooperation and value for money, than would otherwise be enhance interoperability and to facilitate continues to do so, most notably in the case, and to cooperate together in the delivery of systems that our respective the M777 howitzer and F-35 Joint pursuit of common security objectives.
It went on to say It is in the interest of both governments and of both industries For BAE Systems an improved technology to improve the current situation.
sharing environment would enable our engineers and scientists in the US and the Notwithstanding the strong tradition of UK to collaborate more effectively, and bring cooperation, the constraints imposed by together their collective skills and expertise the current US export control regulations to the benefit of our two major customers, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations the UK and US governments, as well as to act as a disincentive to maximising the our shareholders.
While it is self-evident that the movement of sensitive information and technology has generally to be controlled, in todays environment of coalition operations it would be to the advantage of both governments and defence industries to allow and, indeed, to encourage freer technology sharing between the UK and the US.
10 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 Eurosystems The Eurosystems transaction, completed in April 2005, achieved BAE Systems and Finmeccanicas mutual goals of securing control and clear management responsibility for their European defence electronics businesses.
Following the transaction, BAE Systems formed Integrated System Technologies by combining the capabilities of the former AMSs UK operations and BAE Systems C4ISR Networked Systems and Solutions business.
This business is working in partnership with the UK MoD to identify opportunities to participate in the transformation of the capabilities of the UK armed forces through the application of emerging network enabled capability technologies.
Optimise our business portfolio To ensure delivery of value to To maximise returns the Company will In March 2005, BAE Systems reduced its shareholders the Company is continue to focus on markets with attractive interest in Saab AB from 34.2% to 20.5%.
focused on determining where terms of trade as well as addressing costs, appropriate returns can be achieved.
In August 2005, BAE Systems sold To achieve this, businesses operating in Precision Aerostructures, the US based markets not considered central to the aircraft component machining and Companys strategy are managed to fabrication facility.
maximise their contribution to the Group.
In December 2005, an agreement for the Actions to optimise our business portfolio sale of the Atlas Elektronik business to in 2005 included further restructuring of ThyssenKrupp and EADS was announced.
the Companys activities in Europe and the acquisition of United Defense in the In January 2006, an agreement for the sale United States.
of the UK based Aerostructures business to Spirit AeroSystems Inc. was announced.
In Europe, the Eurosystems transaction was completed.
This comprised the sale of the The acquisition of United Defense UK-based sensor systems and electronic was a key step in our strategy to build warfare activities of the former Avionics BAE Systems position as the premier business group and the restructuring of transatlantic defence and aerospace the former AMS joint venture business to company.
The Company is now well placed exit businesses in Italy and consolidate to support the US militarys growing its UK network enabled capability activities emphasis on inter-operability, affordable in a wholly-owned UK-based business, transformation and force sustainment.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 11 Business portfolio actions The business portfolio actions are championed by relevant Executive Committee members and are delivered either separately or jointly by the business groups.
Grow our business in the Establish in the UK sustainably Grow our global land systems United States profitable through-life businesses business In the summer of 2005, BAE Systems in air, land and sea Following the successful completion Good progress continues to be made completed the acquisition of United of the acquisition of Alvis in 2004 and Defense, growing the US business base across all major platform programmes.
United Defense in 2005, BAE Systems by $2.6bn in annual sales and 8,000 In 2005, the financial performance has established a major land systems additional employees.
This acquisition of the Programmes business group position, with home markets in the US, established BAE Systems as a major land benefited both from improved project Sweden, South Africa and the UK.
The systems prime contractor with a strong execution and agreement on the way formation of the Land & Armaments position in support of the US Department forward on the Typhoon programme business group in June 2005 brought of Defenses requirements for force made in December 2004.
BAE Systems existing land systems sustainment and affordable transformation.
activities together with those of United The acquisition provides new opportunities In December 2005, the UK MoD published Defense, to create a global leader in in land vehicle and naval gun programmes.
its Defence Industrial Strategy DIS.
This armoured combat vehicles and armaments.
It also broadens our access to platforms, strategy will shape the future of the UK supporting our customers with enhanced defence industrial base and recognises These integrated capabilities, our position solutions including new target acquisition, the need to sustain in the UK the highest on future programmes and our extensive communications and networked awareness system integration skills and capabilities installed base of legacy systems provides systems, and diversifies our business base across air, land and sea domains.
The BAE Systems with a platform from which with the US Army.
DIS also emphasises the importance it can develop its global land systems of a through-life capability approach and business.
We shall capitalise on the reset In addition, the existing US business envisages long-term partnering agreements and modularity priorities of the US Army is achieving organic growth across within each of the key sectors of air, land to restore battle-worn equipment and its established businesses with key and sea.
Successful implementation of this to convert active and reserve units to successes in electronic warfare, strategy will create a positive investment standardised expeditionary organisations.
The Company will work The next generation of combat systems systems, information technology, closely with the MoD to help them realise will be rapidly deployable, lethal, survivable and customer support.
We have an integral role in the UKs Future Rapid Effect System The enduring requirement for retaining programme, the US Armys Future Combat an on-shore, through-life, prime systems Systems programme and the Swedish SEP integration capability across air, land future ground systems programmes.
and sea presents BAE Systems with opportunities to sustain its UK In the UK land support arena the award of business base.
the AS90 equipment support contract was an excellent first step as we enter a longterm partnering arrangement with the MoD to support the UK armoured fighting vehicle fleet.
12 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 Grow our global support, solutions Grow and maximise the Manage non-strategic businesses and services business value of Airbus for optimal value In the UK, Customer Solutions & Support In addition to its 20% equity interest in Where a business is operating in a market CS&S has continued the evolution of its Airbus, BAE Systems continues to exercise that is not contributing to achieving our successful partnering relationship with the important management influence on the desired long-term strategic positioning it UK Defence Logistics Organisation.
Airbus achieved good growth in will be managed to optimise value.
This relationship is underpinned by a partnering 2005.
It secured net new orders for 1,055 could mean focusing on managing for arrangement which is being refreshed to aircraft in 2005, including firm orders cash or divesting the business.
Whatever reflect the drive for through-life capability received from China, Kingfisher Airlines, the chosen action, such businesses will management as emphasised in the DIS.
be managed to maximise their contribution The CS&S International and Australian to the overall Group performance.
businesses continue to implement their In 2005, Airbus delivered 378 aircraft growth strategies.
The 2005 total A number of disposal transactions were comprised 289 single-aisle A320 family agreed during 2005.
Good progress has been made with aircraft and 89 wide-body and long-range the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, where the airliners essentially A330s and A340s.
Company employs some 4,600 people, in particular with the signing of the In April 2005, the first A380 successfully government to government Understanding undertook its maiden flight.
The entry into Document in December 2005. service for the A380 is now expected in late 2006.
Restructuring in the US led to the creation of the US Customer Solutions organisation, Development of the A400M military strengthening our position to address transport aircraft continues, with the first emerging support opportunities.
The US export order for the aircraft achieved business is focused primarily in the areas during 2005. of technology solutions and services, Information Technology IT, and ship repair.
Following approval from its shareholders, While the US services market is large, it is EADS and BAE Systems, Airbus formally generally flat, resulting in a very competitive launched the new long-range A350 airliner in environment.
Future growth plans remain October 2005.
Airbus has already received centred in the high growth IT market.
BAE Systems is in an excellent position to grow business by assisting customers with defence logistics transformation to increase operational effectiveness.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 13 Electronics, Intelligence & Support Electronics, Intelligence & Support is a provider of network centric warfare As a market leader in advanced information EI&S is headquartered in the US, solutions to command centres, platforms technology, geospatial exploitation software and is responsible for the former and individual soldiers in the battle space.
and data production, integration of businesses of BAE Systems North It has a prominent position integrating knowledge-based systems and avionics test America, the groups UK-based communications on the US Armys Future equipment, the Company was selected as displays and inertial systems Combat Systems, including provision of an one of the prime contractors for the US Air activities and US marine repair Integrated Global Positioning and Inertial Force mission planning consolidation in activities.
EI&S comprises two Navigation System for the programme.
Another programme, Gridlock, gives businesses, Electronics & Integrated In 2005 the Company was also selected the war fighter distinctive advantages with Solutions and Customer Solutions.
to provide the new mobile military its smart imaging targeting that rapidly communications system for the Slovak generates accurate target coordinates using During 2005, Electronics, Intelligence armed forces.
still or motion imagery from tactical manned 2 of 324m & Support achieved EBITA and unmanned platforms.
1 The Company is a major supplier of 2004 256m on sales of 3,697m integrated avionics systems for military Capabilities in vehicle management, human- 2004 3,063m.
Such systems include the machine interface, precision guidance and generated operating cash inflow of electronic countermeasures for the US power systems provide improved operational 323m 2004 190m.
Air Forces F-22 Raptor and development safety and enhanced mission effectiveness.
of the electronic warfare suite for the F-35 Contract awards in 2005 included the digital Electronics & Integrated Solutions Joint Strike Fighter.
In 2005 the Company electronic engine controls for the GE T700 The Electronics & Integrated Solutions was selected by the US Navy to develop engine that will make BAE Systems the E&IS business is a major defence and the Tactical Aircraft Directable Infrared leader in the army helicopter segment.
aerospace electronics business with Countermeasures system and has been products and services encompassing: BAE Systems also provides the HybriDrive successfully flight testing a related infrared Communications, including propulsion system, used on commercial missile countermeasures system for tactical networking buses, which improves fuel economy by commercial aircraft.
Electronic warfare, including electronic 35% and dramatically reduces emissions.
protection and information warfare E&IS provides signals and information Five hundred systems for operation in Avionics and controls management solutions for defence and New York City were ordered in 2005. government agencies.
Its Diamond In a related technology, the US Office of Sensors Software product family architecture Naval Research selected BAE Systems to Integrated systems underpins the latest generation of develop an on-board power system for the electronic support measures for the UK Marine Corps High-Mobility Multipurpose E&IS is an industry leader in a variety of Shaman communications programme.
military communications, electronic The Companys radiation hardened identification, navigation and guidance computers have guided spacecraft on systems.
The Company has wide technical 6 7 missions to Mars and to intercept a comet.
expertise in C4ISR and C3I systems and Electronics, Intelligence & Support Summary Financial highlights Key points 5 2005 2004 Organic sales growth of 6% Sustained leadership positions 1 Sales 3,697m 3,063m over 2004 in electronic warfare and 2 EBITA 324m 256m military communications 3 Return on sales improved Cash inflow 323m 190m secured US Air Force mission 1 to 8.8% Number of employees 32,900 30,000 1 planning contract Order book 3.5bn 3.1bn 2 Good conversion of EBITA Acquisition of largest US to operating cash flow 4 2 non-nuclear ship repair business Share of Group sales Share of Group EBITA Order book growth Successful integration of 2004 acquisitions 23% 27% Successful flight test of infrared missile countermeasures system for commercial airliners 14 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 Advanced Airborne Systems The tests were funded internally and outside BAE Systems designs, develops and manufactures a wide range of electronic of the JSF programme flight test schedule in order to evaluate potential cost savings and systems and subsystems for both military and commercial applications.
The Electronics performance improvement options.
To date, the EW system continues to exceed all contract & Integrated Solutions business develops advanced airborne systems, including the performance metrics within the System Design and Development phase.
electronic warfare suites for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter JSF, F-22 Raptor and other air platforms.
In July 2005, BAE Systems successfully completed the first flight test of its F-35 electronic warfare EW suite.
The Company is a supplier of state-of-the-art antenna systems to high performance tracking radars, is one of the largest infrared, millimetre-wave, and laser scalable signal processing technologies, suppliers to the US Navy, is a leader in air technologies for missile seekers, guided mixed-signal digital, RF and optical and missile defence systems and is one munitions, and target designators.
It is devices, and advanced sensors.
of the worlds largest manufacturers of upgrading the technology for the Theater explosives.
It also includes the USs leading The Center for Transformation focuses on High Altitude Area Defense THAD seeker non-nuclear ship repair company.
development of advanced programmes and for Lockheed Martin.
In an important entry 6 domain and deploys concepts in the C4ISR point to the $1bn military thermal imaging During 2005, the major projects for the US leading-edge technology solutions to solve market, the Company is producing the government included a blanket purchase time-critical problems.
new thermal weapons sights to equip agreement for the supply of information the US Army and Marine Corps, and is technology support and services, a costCustomer Solutions to manufacture the TIM1500 thermal plus award fee level of effort contract for Customer Solutions comprises three imaging module for the US Armys Stryker operations, and maintenance support for business units: armoured vehicle.
Combined annual sales for BAE Systems Information Technology IT these are estimated at $94m.
In 2005, BAE Systems won the US Air Technology Solutions and Services TSS Forces key Design and Engineering Support TSS provides professional engineering BAE Systems Ship Repair Program II, leveraging expertise in aircraft services to the NAVSEA DDG51 Shipbuilding modifications and operations.
IT capabilities include enterprise-wide Program Office under a $863m contract managed IT operations, mission-critical which will run until 2015.
It also handles The business operates two technology performance and information analysis the SETAC contract, for which the primary organisations focused on enhancing its and assured delivery.
TSS provides customer is the Army Space and Missile technology base, Advanced Systems services including system engineering Defense Command.
The full year sales for and Technology and the Center for and technical assistance, system and SETAC are $90m.
sub-system integration and operations and maintenance.
Ship Repair provides Ship Repair has continued to support Advanced Systems and Technology identifies non-nuclear ship repair, conversion and the US Navy repairs, alterations and strategic technology needs and delivers modernisation, principally in the home continuous repair work on Landing Platform that technology in four major domains: ports of the US Navy.
Dock Landing Ship Dock LPD LSD class Sensors and Signal Processing: Radio vessels in San Diego, as well as similar LSD Frequency: Electro-Optical and Infrared: The business provides a broad range Multi-Ship Multi-Option in Norfolk, Virginia.
and Networking and Information Processing.
of services in the areas of systems Major customers include the US Defense integration, systems engineering and Advanced Research Projects Agency and technical assistance, operations and other government laboratories, with maintenance and logistics.
It also develops research and development programmes communications systems and precision ranging from multi-functional low-observable 1 Looking forward including share of equity accounted investments 2 earnings before amortisation and impairment of Defence spending in the US continues to be robust for the near term, intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 3 however fiscal pressures may make the budget environment more net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment, challenging in subsequent years.
Customers will need to balance priorities and dividends from equity accounted investments to equip effectively the current fighting force, whilst developing capabilities 4 before elimination of intra-group sales 5 to transform the future force.
as restated under International Financial Reporting Standards 6 Command, Control, Communications and Computing, EI&S was reorganised in 2005 to enable it to compete more effectively.
The Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance business group can now leverage a breadth of capability in critical domains, 7 Command, Control, Communications and Intelligence whilst rapidly aligning technologies and resources to those sub-segments of the market which are likely to see higher than market growth.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 15 Land & Armaments The Land & Armaments business configurations is the subject of one of the the UK and the Swedish Modular Armoured group, headquartered in the US, largest ongoing programmes being Tactical System.
is a global leader in the design, undertaken by the group.
development, production and Land & Armaments continues to make service support of armoured Land substantial progress on the development combat vehicles, major and Contract awards on current systems have and maturation of the  calibre naval guns, missile been exceptional.
Most noteworthy were the Cannon NLOS-C, the lead system of the launchers, canisters, artillery orders in 2005 worth some $1.5bn for the US Armys FCS manned ground vehicles.
refurbishment and upgrade of Bradley and In 2005, company engineers and the Army M113 fighting vehicles, demonstrating the completed functional and preliminary During 2005, Land & Armaments achieved value and potential of the United Defense design reviews.
The NLOS-C remains on 2 1 EBITA of 42m 2004 8 m on sales acquisition.
Other contracts on current track to deliver prototypes in 2008 and of 1,270m 2004 482m, and generated systems included the remanufacture and achieve system fielding in 2010.
3 an operating cash inflow of 168m upgrade of 59 M88A2 HERCULES Improved 2004 60m.
Other contract wins and ongoing development programmes related to This group was established in June 2005 The M777 lightweight 155mm howitzer, 495 Manned Ground Vehicles for the US Armys from the newly acquired United Defense of which were ordered for the US Marines FCS include the Integrated Army Active and the existing Land Systems formed by and US Army in 2005, has now expanded its Protection System and the common the integration of RO Defence and Alvis in market with the first delivery of guns to the Traction Drive Subsystem for all FCS 2004.
This global business has operations Canadian Department of National Defense.
in the US, UK, South Africa and Sweden, with markets in more than two dozen countries.
In addition to mine protection, current The group secured two key contracts in survivability programmes include an robotic systems the acceleration of The Land & Armaments business is shaped armouring programme of M113 personnel the FCS Armed Robotic Vehicle ARV, together by the contracts awarded for its products by carriers in Iraq, the manufacture and with Carnegie Mellon University, and primarily the governments of the US, the UK installation of Transparent Armour Gun the US Marine Corps Gladiator Tactical and Sweden.
The success of the business Shield kits for Humvees, trucks, M2 Unmanned Ground Vehicle.
It also showed results from its history of securing key Bradleys, M1 Abrams and add-on armour its own internally-developed Armed Robotic government contracts and the ability to for the Stryker.
Demonstrator at the annual meeting of the satisfy customer needs in its various home Association of the US Army.
In the US, the Armys In the area of development, Land & Armaments requirement to restore its current systems is well positioned for key future forces In the UK, the award of the AS90 Equipment to combat-ready condition following programmes including the Future Combat Support Contract followed by the contract to extensive operational use and to upgrade Systems FCS programme for the US Army, upgrade 500 of the British Armys FV430 and remanufacture to the most advanced Future Rapid Effect System programme for tracked vehicles, are key enablers in Land & Armaments Summary Financial highlights Key points 5 2005 2004 Sales of 625m from acquired Transatlantic growth with 1 Sales 1,270m 482m United Defense business acquisition of United Defense 2 EBITA 42m 8 m 2 6 EBITA stated after UK Global land systems business Underlying EBITA 86m 2 m 3 rationalisation charge of 24m Cash inflow 168m 60m established 1 Number of employees 10,600 4,800 Cash flow benefits from advance Key contracts secured 1 Order book 4.4bn 2.2bn payments secured Bradley reset and upgrade Danish CV90, US RG-31, M777 4 2 Order book growth Share of Group sales Share of Group EBITA UK Future Rapid Effect System FRES demonstrator award UK cost base being addressed 8% 3% includes six months of United Defense 16 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005  NLOS-C The fully automated NLOS-C will deliver more firepower with greater effects faster and more accurately than ever before.
BAE Systems is proving new capabilities on the fully automated, 38 calibre NLOS-C Concept Technology Demonstrator, which has fired more than 1,900 rounds at Yuma Proving Ground, Arizona.
The first NLOS-C Increment 0 prototypes are scheduled for delivery in 2008.
Artists impression becoming the through-life support and countries fielding this highly successful sustained firing rate of 10 rounds per minute capability provider to the UK armed forces.
at ranges of up to 60 nautical miles with an objective of being able to reach targets In the UK and export markets Trojan, an The growing international need for minebeyond 80 nautical miles.
In 2005, the obstacle-crossing vehicle and Titan, a tank protected vehicles has generated orders for engineering development models bridgelayer, are both based on Challenger 2. the four-wheeled RG-31 from South Africa successfully demonstrated the key Roll-out of the first production vehicles is including the sale of 148 vehicles to the US requirements to support the DD X ship scheduled for the first quarter of 2006. with further exports to Canada and the design.
Tests have already established the United Arab Emirates under contract.
propulsion approach for the LRLAP needed Over the past ten years, some 25m has been to meet the challenging range targets.
Naval invested in developing insensitive munitions technology and in UK production facilities.
One immediate benefit of the United Defense In addition to key new gun systems, The first contract was awarded in 2005 by acquisition for BAE Systems was the BAE Systems is designing and testing the UK MoD for the manufacture of 105mm opportunity to meet the US Navys urgent a new Vertical Launching System VLS, improved ammunition for the L18 Light Gun.
need for a superior medium-calibre gun and Mk 57.
This next generation VLS will Subsequent awards have been contracts to ammunition for the DD X next-generation provide capabilities for the DD X ship to qualify 155mm ammunition for the L15 and destroyer and the Coast Guards Deepwater launch a wide range of missile designs.
Both have selected the Land & Armaments 57mm The premium that militaries are placing on Mk 110 as a close-in gun system for the accuracy and precision in both area and DD X and as the main battery for the point target fires has raised the importance Maritime Security Cutter Large.
Partnering of intelligent munitions for artillery and mortar with Northrop Grumman Ship Systems, the systems.
Land & Armaments has a leading first Mk 110 will be delivered in December role in the accelerated fielding of Excalibur 2006.
The weapon system is also baselined to US and Canadian forces in Iraq and on both the General Dynamics and Afghanistan.
BONUS, a sensor fused Lockheed Martin designs for the Littoral 155mm munition fielded in Sweden and Combat Ship for the US Navy.
France, is being evaluated by the US and UK.
Development of the 155mm Advanced Gun BAE Systems operations in Sweden System AGS and the Long Range Land continue their strong presence in the Attack Projectile LRLAP for the US Navy northern European armoured fighting continues to support Navy and Marine Corps vehicles market with further orders for the expeditionary and joint operations forces CV90.
The newest customer, Denmark, engaged near the coastline and deep inland.
brings to six the number of European The AGS will be capable of a maximum 1 Looking forward including share of equity accounted investments 2 earnings before amortisation and impairment of Land & Armaments is expected to contribute growth in 2006 driven largely intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 3 by the ongoing requirements in the US to both reset and upgrade the Bradley net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment, family of vehicles.
Reset is the need to repair vehicles to return them to a and dividends from equity accounted investments fully operational condition as a result of wear incurred by sustained military 4 before elimination of intra-group sales 5 operations.
Upgrade activity is enhancing the vehicles mobility, lethality as restated under International Financial Reporting Standards and survivability to support effectively the US Army as it drives to deploy 6 earnings before amortisation and impairment of a modular force.
intangible assets, uplift on acquired inventories, finance costs and taxation expense In the UK, there will be continued emphasis on improving profitability and establishing a role on the Future Rapid Effect System programme.
The businesses in both Sweden and South Africa continue to perform well in both home markets and in securing export opportunities.
In the longer term, progress on the US Armys Future Combat Systems programme, where BAE Systems has a major role for both manned and unmanned vehicles, will be a major sensitivity for the business.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 17 Programmes The Programmes business group Air Systems is a major contributor to the The principal Air Systems programmes are: defence of the UK, with the MoD its principal customer.
The business Typhoon group comprises the Companys air The introduction of the Typhoon to the systems, naval ships and submarines Royal Air Force RAF was successfully activities together with the implemented under the Case White initial Companys participation in the UKs support arrangement.
The contracted flying Future Carrier CVF programme.
hours were completed ahead of schedule, and the first two RAF squadrons have now During 2005, Programmes achieved been deployed to their operational base 2 1 EBITA of 133m 2004 10m on sales at RAF Coningsby.
A total of 74 aircraft of 2,819m 2004 2,219m, and have been accepted by the air forces of 3 generated an operating cash inflow the four partner nations for deployment of 285m 2004 442m.
to operational and training squadrons across Europe.
Discussions are underway regarding further development to enhance the capability of the aircraft.
In addition to the sale of 18 aircraft to Austria, further export possibilities are being pursued.
Artist's impression Hawk The Hawk Advanced Jet Trainer AJT development programme made good progress during 2005, with a successful maiden flight for the first RAF Mk 128 in July, two months ahead of schedule.
A production order is expected in 2006.
Export contracts for Bahrain, South Africa and India were progressed during the year.
Programmes Summary Financial highlights Key points 5 2005 2004 Sales growth of 27% over 2004 37 Typhoon aircraft delivered 1 Sales 2,819m 2,219m in the year 12 to UK RAF Margin recovery to 4.7% 2 EBITA 133m 10m 3 including 30m benefit from risk First flight of UK Hawk Advanced Cash inflow 285m 442m 1 retirement on Typhoon Number of employees 16,200 15,700 Jet Trainer aircraft achieved early 1 Order book 12.3bn 13.0bn Margin constrained Successful delivery of F-35 JSF No contribution from Astute airframe assemblies 4 2 Share of Group sales Share of Group EBITA and Nimrod sales Type 45 first of class launched in No margin traded on February 2006.
Type 45 with programme Landing Ship Dock Auxiliary 18% 11% at an early stage first ship delivered Good cash performance 18 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 Astute Demanding targets and a modular build strategy have combined during 2005 to achieve the accelerating production schedule for the Astute submarine project.
Recognition of the challenges of commissioning a first-of-class submarine has driven high achievement in the build and integration stages to fide-risk the programmed delivery date of August 2008.
Nimrod MRA4 Naval Ships and Submarines the main propulsion package shipped Nimrod passed a number of key The principal Naval Ships and Submarine 40 days early in June, the command deck milestones in 2005, and the development programmes are: module 5 weeks early in November, while fleet of three aircraft continues its shop floor led innovation enabled the bridge extensive flight testing programme.
Design Type 45 fin and casings to be completed 22 weeks and development continues to meet the The Company is the prime contractor and early in October 2005.
An innovative alltargets to support the production bid, which design authority for the Type 45 destroyer, employee bonus scheme has strongly was submitted in July, and to serve as the which will be the largest and most powerful contributed to this performance.
technical baseline for future work.
anti-air warfare destroyer ever deployed by the Royal Navy.
Of a projected eight ships, CVF F-35 Joint Strike Fighter JSF six are under contract of which the first, The CVF project will be executed within Air Systems is partnered with Lockheed HMS Daring, was launched in February an Alliance structure comprising MoD, Martin and Northrop Grumman on the JSF 2006.
Build on ships 2 and 3 is progressing BAE Systems, VT Group, Babcock, Thales programme, with responsibility for the design well, with anticipated build efficiencies and KBR.
Within the Alliance framework, and manufacture of the rear fuselage and already being achieved between first and BAE Systems continues to play a significant empennage.
Work progressed on the second of class.
role in the leadership and execution of the system development and demonstration CVF project.
The Roles and Responsibilities contract, with the successful delivery of the LSD A agreement signed in December 2005 first rear fuselage and empennage to Two Landing Ship Dock Auxiliaries for formally appointed BAE Systems to lead Lockheed Martin.
The first conventional the Royal Fleet Auxiliary RFA are under the overarching design and integration takeoff and landing flight is planned for 2006. contract.
The first, RFA Mounts Bay, was of the two ships, as well as continuing to Activity has also continued in preparation for handed over in December 2005: and RFA lead the mission systems elements of the the bid for the first JSF production contract, Cardigan Bay will be delivered in mid-2006.
From a shipbuilding perspective, with the contract award expected in 2007.
BAE Systems will design and build two of OPV the four major blocks at both its facilities Unmanned Air Vehicles UAVs The customers refusal to accept the three in Glasgow and in Barrow.
In July 2005, the MoD formed the Strategic Brunei Offshore Patrol Vessels is now UAVs Experiment integrated project team.
The MoD has approved a further 300m This will assemble evidence to allow the for the next phase Demonstration UK to make informed decisions about the Astute Phase Contract which will fund the potential role of UAVs in future force mixes.
The Astute programme has achieved Alliance for a further 18 months for BAE Systems has been selected as prime milestones on or ahead of schedule continued design evolution and contractor, and has received a series of throughout the year with closure of the procurement of long-lead materials.
In 2005, every module was shipped ahead of schedule with 1 Looking forward including share of equity accounted investments 2 earnings before amortisation and impairment of The future of Programmes is closely linked to the future requirements of the intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 3 UKs armed forces as well as its ability to generate profitable export business.
net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment, For Air Systems the outlook is for reduced sizes of aircraft fleets, leading and dividends from equity accounted investments 4 to increasing levels of weapons system upgrades, as customers seek to before elimination of intra-group sales 5 as restated under International Financial incorporate technological improvements into existing platforms.
There is Reporting Standards continued demand for training aircraft offering improved cost effectiveness and the ability to train operators for the latest combat aircraft.
In the UK this need is being addressed by the advanced mission training capabilities of the Hawk Mk128.
There is increased interest in the potential of UAVs.
In the naval domain, the CVF programme and the longer term Military Afloat Reach and Sustainability MARS programme to replace the RFA fleet with new ships by 2020 offer encouraging growth prospects.
BAE Systems is a key participant in the UK governments Maritime Industrial Strategy review.
In the medium to longer term, growth prospects are dependent on anticipated higher activity, as UK development programmes move to production, and the potential for Hawk, Typhoon and naval ships exports.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 19 Customer Solutions & Support The Customer Solutions & Support As previously indicated, margins have been CS&S business group provides reduced within the Al Yamamah support support solutions for current and operations as the programme embraces future requirements.
It addresses greater indigenous Saudi content in repair the trend within armed forces to and overhaul work.
work more closely with industry to optimise their military capability BAE Systems has a major presence in in the most effective manner.
Key Saudi Arabia, as prime contractor for capabilities include the integration the UKs largest export contract.
The and delivery of effective supply contract includes the provision of aircraft chain and logistics management, and associated hardware, radar and spares, maintenance, repair and communications support, manpower overhaul, capability upgrade, training and infrastructure for the Royal technical information services, Saudi Air Force.
The business group facilities management and employs some 4,600 people in the manpower services.
CS&S is Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, of whom the prime contractor on the more than half are Saudi nationals.
Performance on the programme in Saudi Arabia remains on plan.
The Company 2 During 2005, CS&S achieved EBITA continues to develop a greater indigenous Delivering upgraded ex-Royal Navy Type 22 1 frigates for Romania.
of 419m 2004 497m on sales presence in Saudi Arabia and has made a of 2,923m 2004 2,856m, and number of investments in offset companies.
3 generated an operating cash inflow The security of our employees is the highest of 850m 2004 1,102m.
of our priorities and a significant investment is being made in new residential facilities and increased security measures.
Customer Solutions & Support Summary Financial highlights Key points 5 2005 2004 Sales growth of 2% over Delivery of Saudi strategy 1 Sales 2,923m 2,856m 2004 18% from non-Al on track 2 EBITA 419m 497m Compound construction Yamamah activity 3 Cash inflow 850m 1,102m Saudi joint venture 2 1 EBITA lower on reduced Number of employees 14,300 13,800 company formed 1 Order book 5.0bn 4.6bn contribution from Al Yamamah Increasing employment support programme of Saudi nationals 4 2 Share of Group sales Share of Group EBITA Cash flow benefits from Government to government programme debt reduction Understanding Document signed on Saudi armed Order book growth forces modernisation 18% 35% Delivery of UK partnered support growth strategy Improved performance from Australian business 20 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 Saudi Arabia BAE Systems is providing a comprehensive defence package to Saudi Arabia under the long-running Al Yamamah contract and CS&S has played a key role in providing training for local people.
The proportion of Saudi nationals now working on the contract has exceeded 50% an important objective for the Saudi government.
In the UK, CS&S has continued the In addition, the naval joint ventures BAE Systems Australian business has evolution of its successful partnering continue to perform strongly.
BAE Systems made considerable progress in realising relationship with the UK Defence Logistics has 50% interests in Fleet Support Limited its strategy of becoming the Australian Organisation DLO during 2005.
This and Flagship Training Limited.
These Defence Forces capability partner of relationship is underpinned by a partnering support and services joint ventures choice in integrated military systems arrangement which is being refreshed to form an integral part of the CS&S strategy.
An important reflect the drive for through-life capability Flagship Training Limited, which manages milestone is agreeing the wider industrial management as emphasised in the UKs the Royal Navy training establishments participation with Boeing on the Wedgetail Defence Industrial Strategy.
and markets their courses to overseas programme and with Lockheed Martin customers, has had another strong year.
Key highlights in the air domain include Fleet Support Limited also continued securing major orders on VC10, Harrier, to perform well underpinned by the a major third-party support contract on partnering agreement at the UKs E3D Sentry and Tornado.
A joint DLO BAE Systems team gained CS&S continues to develop a coherent MoD approval in November for the next information and logistics infrastructure in phase of Tornado support to deliver support of both new and in-service systems.
increased availability and operational Trilogi, a web-based documentation system flexibility at much reduced cost.
This ATTAC jointly developed by BAE Systems and the programme Availability Transformation: DLO, has now been selected for more than Tornado Aircraft Contract will integrate all 20 UK MoD programmes and the F-35 Joint non-engine Tornado support and upgrade Strike Fighter JSF.
activity into one incentivised arrangement.
In July 2005, the MoD announced that In the Naval domain, BAE Systems secured Defence Logistic Solutions DLS, in the sale of three ex-Royal Navy frigates which BAE Systems was a partner, to Chile.
This follows the successful was unsuccessful in the bid for the reactivation and upgrade of the two Future Defence Supply Chain initiative.
Type 22 frigates for Romania completed on schedule in April 2005.
1 Looking forward including share of equity accounted investments 2 earnings before amortisation and impairment of CS&S will continue to work closely with the UK Defence Logistics intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 3 Organisation to provide smarter, more integrated, support solutions on net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment, customer bases.
Good progress is being made on the future support model and dividends from equity accounted investments for the UK Tornado aircraft.
Opportunities for similar support arrangements 4 before elimination of intra-group sales exist on other UK platforms.
5 as restated under International Financial Reporting Standards Looking forward, CS&S will continue to work to sustain a long-term presence in Saudi Arabia, delivering on our commitments on current support contracts and developing new business following the signing of the Understanding Document in December 2005, between the governments of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the UK.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 21 Integrated Systems & Partnerships Integrated Systems & Partnerships exercisable by BAE Systems in the three working as the lead in the SEABRIDGE team, is a portfolio of high-technology month period from the beginning of June with partners Aerosystems International, defence systems businesses 2007 and a call option by Finmeccanica EDS, Flagship Training, MDA and Serco.
comprising the wholly-owned at any time to August 2007.
MCTS will provide the Royal Navy with Integrated System Technologies, a new shore-based warfare operator Underwater Systems, and Atlas The Group also reduced its equity interest training capability that will meet the Elektronik, together with a 37.5% in Saab from 34.2% to 20.5% generating training needs of the Type 45 destroyer interest in the pan-European MBDA cash of 125m.
In a revision to the earlier in 2007, and current in-service ships.
joint venture, a 20.5% interest in Saab joint marketing arrangements for the of Sweden and a 50% interest in the Gripen combat aircraft, Saab has now The creation of the Insyte business gives Gripen International joint venture.
assumed responsibility for winning new BAE Systems a new strength in the export business.
integration of high technology systems.
The Integrated Systems & Partnerships 2 business group generated EBITA of 109m Integrated System Technologies MBDA 37.5% 1 of 1,834m 2004 2004 95m on sales The Integrated System Technologies Insyte 2005 saw MBDAs sales increase by 6% 2 2,022m.
There was an operating cash business was formed in May 2005 from the to 3.2bn and EBITA grow by 19%.
inflow UK based defence systems activities of the performance was driven by significant AMS joint venture and existing BAE Systems deliveries of the Storm Shadow and Scalp 6 A significant restructuring of the Companys activities.
UK based C4ISR EG precision strike cruise missile to the portfolio of European defence systems French and UK customers in addition to Insyte projects include the full-scale business interests was accomplished first deliveries to the Italian air force.
in 2005. engineering development of the Sampson Significant deliveries of the Mica air-to-air multi-function radar.
A revised timetable missile to both the French air force and The Eurosystems transaction, which was has been agreed to address maturity in the export customers also underpinned the completed in April 2005, restructured the systems software, currently impacting the sales performance together with the entry AMS joint venture with the UK based Principal Anti-Air Missile System for the into service of the advanced air-launched defence systems activities being retained Type 45 destroyer programme.
anti-armour weapon system, Brimstone, by BAE Systems and with Finmeccanica to the Royal Air Force.
retaining the Italian based activities.
Insyte has been selected for two key UK transformational technology network MBDAs order book of 12.6bn at As part of this transaction the electronic enabled capability systems, the Falcon 31 December 2005 benefited from the warfare systems and sensor systems communications infrastructure programme award of the design and development activities of the former UK based avionics and the Shaman communications phase of the new Medium Extended range business group were sold to Finmeccanica.
electronic support measures system Air Defence System MEADS, which is a for the Royal Navy.
mobile ground-to-air missile defence system The Eurosystems transaction realised a net to provide protection from future air and cash inflow of 402m in 2005 with a further Insyte also secured the order for the missile defence threats.
MBDAs share of 268m receivable subject to a put option Maritime Composite Training System MCTS the MEADS order was 512m.
Other orders Integrated Systems & Partnerships Summary Financial highlights Key points 5 2005 2004 Financial results reflect portfolio Continued restructuring of 1 Sales 1,834m 2,022m restructuring in the year European business portfolio 2 EBITA 109m 95m Eurosystems transaction 2 3 EBITA improved by 15% Cash inflow 17m 59m completed 1 over 2004 Number of employees 12,000 13,900 1 Integrated System Order book 5.9bn 7.0bn Continued good cash flow Technologies formed Saab stake reduced to 20.5% 4 2 Share of Group sales Share of Group EBITA Atlas Elektronik sale agreed Revised Gripen International marketing arrangements 12% 9% with Saab 22 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 Maritime Composite Training System MCTS BAE Systems has been awarded a contract to supply the Royal Navy with a new shore-based Warfare Operator Training capability to meet the needs of current in-service surface platforms and the Type 45 Ready for Training later this decade.
in the year included the French contract mine counter measures system for the Neuron, a European Unmanned Combat for the development and production of Dutch and Belgian navies.
Export orders Air Vehicle demonstrator project was over 2,000 of the new Mistral RMV air for DM2A4 contributed to good order effectively confirmed with the Swedish defence missiles for the new FREMM intake in the year.
government announcement of its multi-mission frigate programme for involvement in the programme.
which MBDA is the primary combat On 30 December, an agreement was system partner.
Two important export entered into for the disposal of Atlas In the same month, Saab signed a orders, including from India, for the Exocet Elektronik jointly to ThyssenKrupp and EADS provisional contract to supply airborne anti-ship weapon, were also achieved.
for a cash consideration of approximately surveillance systems to Pakistan, with a 145m.
In addition, pension and related value of approximately SEK5.5bn 400m.
MBDA has made good progress on the liabilities valued at 31 December 2005 of Important conditions do remain to be met multi-national Meteor and Aster-PAAMS 96m will remain with Atlas following the before the contract becomes effective and programmes.
In 2005, Atlas Elektronik contributed order intake should be recognised in 2006.
2 development milestones in the year sales of 216m and EBITA of 10m.
culminating in flight trials of the missile Saabs financial performance for 2005 was on the Gripen and Rafale aircraft by the Completion of the sale, which is conditional affected by difficulties on a contract for the upon regulatory clearances, is expected end of December.
Key firings were also supply of tactical mission systems for 18 successfully completed of the Aster 30 to take place in the first half of 2006.
missile, an integral part of the PAAMS air defence system for the Royal Navys Underwater Systems Gripen International 50% new Type 45 destroyers, while the new The main production order for Sting Ray Gripen International has been responsible 180km-range Exocet Block 3 anti-ship Mod1, an autonomous  for the design and sale of the export variant weapon commenced qualification.
lightweight torpedo, is well underway.
of the Gripen new generation, multi-role The first torpedoes will enter service in combat aircraft.
The aircraft has been The acquisition of the German missile 2006.
In April 2005, the Company secured ordered by South African, Hungarian and company, LFK, was agreed at the end of an extension to the existing support Czech Republic air forces.
The first of the 2005 and the process to obtain regulatory arrangements for the Spearfish torpedo aircraft for South Africa flew in November, approval is currently in progress.
in a contract worth 58m over three years.
Deliveries of Gripen combat aircraft to the Czech Republic Atlas Elektronik Securing a UK MoD agreement for the continued as part of a leasing arrangement, Atlas Elektronik, the Bremen-based naval upgrade of the Spearfish heavyweight with final aircraft deliveries completed in systems business, had a year of good torpedo will be an important feature in August 2005.
Hungary has also ordered 14 progress with the completion of trials for determining the future shape of the business.
Gripen with deliveries commencing in 2006. the COSYS Malaysia system.
Important Both these countries will be the first Gripen Saab 20.5% progress has also been made towards operators within NATO.
The UK Empire Test completing the development of the DM2A4 2005 has seen a number of important Pilots School is also operating Gripen as heavyweight torpedo and in successfully developments in the Saab business.
In an advanced fast jet training platform for concluding the NATO trials for the IMCMS October, the companys participation in test pilots worldwide.
1 Looking forward including share of equity accounted investments 2 earnings before amortisation and impairment of The Integrated Systems & Partnerships businesses are expected to face intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 3 continued budget pressures in their principal domestic and export markets.
net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment, The substantial order books and strong positions of the businesses in their and dividends from equity accounted investments respective market sectors are expected to sustain activity over the near term.
4 before elimination of intra-group sales 5 With a number of development programmes maturing, the MBDA business is as restated under International Financial Reporting Standards expected to progress to a higher proportion of production activity going forward.
6 Command, Control, Communications and Computing, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Realignment of the business portfolio continues with the completion of the sale of Atlas Elektronik anticipated in the first half of 2006.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 23 Commercial Aerospace The Commercial Aerospace sector Airbus comprises the Companys 20% Airbus is the leading supplier of large interest in Airbus together with the commercial jets with 378 aircraft delivered Aerostructures business and the in 2005.
Airbus offers a comprehensive regional aircraft asset management range of passenger aircraft from 100 seats and support activities.
to over 555 seats in the new A380 longrange airliner.
In 2005, Commercial Aerospace generated 2 1 of 179m 2004 201m on sales In addition to commercial jet airliners Airbus EBITA of 3,232m 2004 2,924m.
Airbus produces freighter aircraft and is developing 2 of 273m 2004 the A400M military transport aircraft.
contributed EBITA 1 196m on sales of 3,002m 2004 Good growth in the global market for large 2,666m after charging 227m of development costs 2004 235m.
commercial jets above 100 seats has continued through 2005.
Orders for more The Companys Regional Aircraft business than 2,000 aircraft were placed during the year of which Airbus secured a net 1,055 has been impacted by poor lease rates in a weak regional aircraft market and by representing 51% of the market.
Growth was driven by a combination of factors.
adjustments to residual value assumptions resulting from airlines operating in the US Passenger traffic has continued to recover A380 the worlds largest passenger airliner.
as confidence returned following the under Chapter 11 protection.
Of the loss for the Regional Aircraft business of 95m terrorist activity in 2001.
The market has also benefited from the rise in low-cost in 2005, approximately half arose from airlines moving into Chapter 11. carriers, making air travel affordable and accessible to a wider population.
Similarly Airbus generated a strong operating cash strong growth is underway and expected to 3 3 of 403m.
Cash outflow at Regional continue in certain regional markets, notably inflow Aircraft was 73m.
China, India and in the Middle East.
In a drive to maximise value from its large order book Airbus continues to reduce costs.
A programme, targeting cost reductions across the Airbus business of approximately 1bn between 2003 and the end of 2006, is on track.
Manufacturing and supply agreements are being implemented in growth markets, including China, to support growth and further reduce costs.
Commercial Aerospace Summary Financial highlights Key points 5 2005 2004 Sales growth of 11% over Strong Airbus order intake 1 Sales 3,232m 2,924m 2004 on 378 aircraft deliveries 2 First flight of A380 long-range EBITA 179m 201m by Airbus 3 airliner Cash inflow 327m 226m 2 1 EBITA stated after loss of 95m Number of employees 12,500 12,600 Airbus cost reduction 1 Order book 29.5bn 20.9bn from Regional Aircraft business programme on track 2 EBITA contribution from Airbus Airbus new product development 4 2 Share of Group sales Share of Group EBITA of 273m programmes underway 3 Cash outflow from Regional Ongoing losses in Regional Aircraft of 73m Aircraft 21% 15% Airbus order book for Aerostructures disposal 2,365 aircraft announced 24 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 Airbus 2005 was a record year for Airbus across the board surpassing previous numbers on deliveries, order intake and profitability.
In terms of orders Airbus continued to outsell its competitors for the fifth consecutive year, whilst continuing to lead in terms of deliveries for the third year in a row.
A number of major new product development Aerostructures Regional Aircraft programmes are presently underway at Airbus.
Aerostructures is a supply chain In 2005, Asset Management, BAE Systems management and assembly business.
commercial aircraft leasing team, A380 It has customer relationships with the successfully reached agreements securing When it enters service towards the end major aircraft manufacturers providing over US$240m of income on over 100 of 2006 the A380 will be the worlds airframe components and assemblies aircraft from its Jet Turboprop portfolio.
Typically it will for commercial aircraft and business jets.
These included lease deals with SN be configured with 555 seats on two fullContracts include assemblies for Airbus Brussels for 23 Regional Jets and length passenger decks.
The first flight commercial aircraft.
The Aerostructures Eurowings Air Dolomiti for 11 BAe 146 of the A380 took place in April 2005 business produces the leading and trailing aircraft.
Additionally, the team successfully with two further aircraft joining the flight edges for the A380 wing as well as wing facilitated a number of airline credit development programme during the year.
structures for the Boeing B777 and B767 restructurings, securing ongoing income and major structures for Raytheons Hawker on portfolio aircraft.
All product lines met The A350 is the latest addition to the Airbus customer requirements in 2005.
Regional Aircraft derives 80% of its support product range.
This 250 seat all-new airliner business from spares and logistics sales.
programme was launched in October 2005 In August 2005, BAE Systems sold An increasing proportion of this activity is and the aircraft is expected to enter service Precision Aerostructures, its US based provided under power by the hour contracts in 2010.
The A350 will make use of a aircraft component machining and that now cover over 50% of the regional number of technical innovations applied to fabrication facility.
the A380, such as new materials, to deliver significant enhancements to range and fuel In January 2006, the sale of the UK consumption over comparable earlier Aerostructures business to Spirit generation aircraft.
AeroSystems Inc. was announced, for a cash consideration of 80m.
A400M Completion is expected to take place The A400M is an advanced military in the first half of 2006.
In 2005, transport designed with a load capacity Aerostructures contributed sales 2 of 8m.
of 37 tons and up to 120 personnel.
of 223m and EBITA 180 aircraft are being produced for seven participating nations.
The first export contract was secured in 2005 with an order for eight aircraft from South Africa.
The first flight of the A400M is planned for the end of 2007, with entry into service scheduled for 2009.
1 Looking forward including share of equity accounted investments 2 earnings before amortisation and impairment of The commercial aviation market continues to grow despite the financial intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 3 fragility of many airlines, exacerbated by high oil prices.
net cash inflow outflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment, and dividends from equity accounted investments Near-term prospects for Airbus remain good, with a strong order book.
4 before elimination of intra-group sales 5 Airbus aircraft deliveries are expected to continue to increase, with growth as restated under International Financial Reporting Standards from low cost carriers in the single-aisle market and as airline customers in Asia and the Far East equip with longer-range aircraft.
The regional aircraft market remains difficult and underlying losses in the support business will continue.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 25 Summarised financial review Results for the year Dividend The net cash outflow on acquisitions and continuing operations disposals was 1,548m.
In addition, net The Board is recommending a final dividend 1 increased 17% from 13,222m to Sales debt acquired on acquisition of subsidiary of 6.3p per share 2004 5.8p, bringing 15,411m.
The growth reflects sales of undertakings was 288m.
During the year the total dividend for the year to 10.3p 789m from the acquired United Defense the Group completed the acquisition of per share 2004 9.5p, an increase of 8.4%.
business together with the benefit of 2004 100% of the issued share capital of United The proposed dividend is covered 2.2 3 from continuing acquisitions and increased deliveries Defense Industries, Inc, in the US, for a total times by earnings across the majority of the Group.
In addition, the operations 2004 1.8 times.
was partially offset by the impact of the Group completed the Eurosystems disposal reduced Saab shareholding.
transaction resulting in a net cash inflow Exchange rates of 402m.
The Eurosystems transaction The principal exchange rates impacting Return on sales for the Group was comprised the sale of a majority holding the Group are as follows: 2005 2004 maintained at 7.7% 2004 7.7%.
in BAE Systems Avionics Limited and the whole of the UK communications business, average 1.462 1.474 2 increased 16% from 1,016m to $ average 1.819 1.832 EBITA and the dissolution of AMS, the 50 50 joint 2 1,182m.
EBITA has been reduced by venture of BAE Systems and Finmeccanica.
year end 1.455 1.417 $ year end 1.718 1.932 rationalisation provisions of 89m and is stated after United Defense acquisition Finance costs Accounting policies accounting adjustments of 44m.
Losses Finance costs, including the Groups share at Regional Aircraft amounted to 95m.
of the finance costs of equity accounted Detailed guidance on the Groups critical investments, were 215m 2004 176m.
and significant accounting policies can be 3 Underlying earnings per share from The underlying interest charge of 210m found in the Annual Report 2005 on our continuing operations for 2005 increased 2004 200m was increased by a net website, www.
by 29.3% to 22.5p compared with 2004. charge of 5m 2004 net gain 24m 1 including share of equity accounted investments sales arising from pension accounting, marked-to- 2 earnings before amortisation and impairment of Basic earnings per share in accordance market revaluations of financial instruments intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense with IAS 33 Earnings per Share, from and foreign currency movements.
3 earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of continuing operations, increased by intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on 28.9% to 18.3p 2004 14.2p.
The net debt of the Group at 31 December pensions and financial derivatives, and uplift on 2005 was 1,277m, an increase of 326m acquired inventories The Group manages the performance of from 951m at the start of the year, after its businesses primarily on measures of adjusting for IAS 32 and IAS 39.
Interest 3 2. decreased from operating cash flow and underlying earnings cover based on EBITA 5.8 times to 5.5 times.
Cash inflow from operating activities was 2,099m 2004 2,350m.
Taxation The Groups effective tax rate for the year Operating business cash flow was 1,937m was 29% 2004 32%.
Good conversion of EBITA to operating cash flow was delivered across The tax rate in the 2006 financial year is much of the Group together with the cash expected to be in line with 2005. benefits of securing advance payments at Land & Armaments and programme debt reduction at Customer Solutions & Support.
Free cash flow, after interest, preference dividends and taxation, was 1,758m 2004 1,924m.
26 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility at BAE Systems Performance 2006 CR objectives BAE Systems recognises its responsibilities In 2005 BAE Systems maintained its We regularly review and update our CR to the people it employs, its customers and leading position in both the Dow Jones programmes to ensure we make progress.
suppliers, its shareholders, the wider Sustainability World Index and the pan We set yearly objectives, details of which community and to the environment.
European Dow Jones STOXX Sustainability can be found in our full Corporate Index.
Our total score increased from 68% Responsibility Report, at both a strategic Corporate responsibility CR in to 81%, a clear indication of our improved and operational level.
The specific CR BAE Systems is about good business performance in the area of corporate objectives agreed for our Chief Executive practice and continual improvement.
The score and his leadership team in 2006 are to: recognise our wide-ranging responsibilities reflects improvements across the three resolve 75% of employee grievances and our CR framework has been developed areas of social, economic and environment in the UK at local level: around key stakeholder interest and but the results also highlighted a need reflect gender diversity on leading feedback, potential risk to our business to continue to increase transparency on university courses in choice of and the extension, review and improvement how we manage certain business issues.
graduate trainees through a of existing practices.
We are committed to addressing this.
focused recruitment plan: Governance of CR exceed safety performance The board of directors has overall commitments made to the responsibility for governance of CR matters UK Health and Safety Executive: within the Company.
Specific responsibility meet safety, health and has been assigned to the recently formed environment targets: Corporate Responsibility Committee.
All members of this committee are nonmeet standards defined through executive directors and comprise Peter Key issues for our business our internal assurance process: and Weinberg, Professor Sue Birley, Phil Carroll It is important that our CR reporting develop, pilot and roll out online and Michael Portillo.
The committee is addresses issues that are material to ethics training to all employees responsible for reviewing and monitoring our business and reflect stakeholder in the UK and Australia.
the processes the Company uses to concerns.
In 2005 we commissioned manage social, environmental and  to provide an Corporate Responsibility Report 2005 ethical risk, as well as assisting the independent view of the issues relevant Board in the development of strategy to our CR reporting and an understanding and policy in this area.
The committee of our CR stakeholders and their key is supported by the Group Legal Director, concerns.
We will use the findings from Audit Director, Group HR Director and this work to focus our CR reporting and Director of Corporate Responsibility.
Real issues and responsibilities The committee met for the first time in The key areas our stakeholders consider 2005 and has agreed several long-term material to our business are anti-bribery strategic objectives to ensure CR and corruption practices, health and contributes to the sustainability of the safety, government relations and political Companys performance through ensuring influence and product responsibility.
continual improvement of application, Additional information on these and communication and evolution of nonother key issues is available in our full financial processes.
Further information Corporate Responsibility Report.
on these objectives can be found in our full Corporate Responsibility Report.
Full information and supporting data on all our CR activities can be found in our Corporate Responsibility Report or on our website at www.
com  BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 27 Board of directors 12 3 4 5 6 7 Chairman Executive directors 3, 4 4 4 4 1.
Mark Ronald CBE, Chief Executive Group Legal Director Chief Operating Officer Appointed Chairman on 1 July 2004.
A civil engineer, Dick Olver joined BP Appointed Chief Executive in 2002, Appointed a member of the Board Appointed to the Board in 2002 having been a Chief Operating following the BAe MES merger.
in 1973 where he held a variety of senior positions culminating Officer since 1999.
He is a member Prior to the merger he was a director Formerly head of GECs North of the shareholder committee of and vice chairman of The General American defence business, in in his appointment to the board of BP p. l. c. as CEO of Exploration Airbus SAS having formerly been Electric Company, p. l. c. GEC.
1999 he was appointed President a member of the Airbus Industrie He is a non-executive director of and CEO of BAE Systems North and Production in 1998.
He was subsequently appointed deputy GIE Supervisory Board.
He is a Premier Farnell plc.
America now BAE Systems, Inc.. non-executive director of The He is a member of the board of group chief executive of BP in 2003, Appointed: 1999 Age: 65 stepping down from that position Peninsular and Oriental Steam governors of the Electronic Navigation Company P&O and a Industries Association and the board when he assumed the chairmanship 5.
Steve Mogford, of BAE Systems.
Dick Olver chairs former non-executive director of and executive committee of the Chief Operating Officer Babcock International Group Plc.
the Boards Nominations Committee Appointed to the Board in 2000 as a and the Non-Executive Directors Chief Operating Officer, he has held Appointed: 1994 Age: 57 Appointed: 2002 Age: 64 Fees Committee.
He is a nona number of senior positions within executive director of Reuters 3.
Chris Geoghegan, the Group including responsibility 7.
George Rose, Group plc and deputy chairman Chief Operating Officer for the Groups military aircraft Group Finance Director of TNK-BP and a Fellow of the Appointed to the Board in 2002 as operations.
He is chairman of the Appointed Group Finance Director Royal Academy of Engineering.
He was Eurofighter Supervisory Board.
in 1998, he is a member of the formerly responsible for the groups shareholder committee of Airbus Appointed: 2004 Age: 59 Appointed: 2000 Age: 49 Airbus operations and, in 2000, SAS.
Prior to joining the Company was appointed Group Managing in 1992, he held senior positions in Director of the Avionics business.
the Rover Group and Leyland DAF.
He is President of the Society of He is a non-executive director of British Aerospace Companies.
Saab AB and National Grid Transco plc, and a member of the Financial Appointed: 2002 Age: 51 Reporting Review Panel.
Professor Sue Birley of the International Advisory 13.
Peter Weinberg Formerly Professor of Committee of the Federal Reserve A cabinet minister in the 1990s, Appointed to the Board in 2005, Entrepreneurship at Imperial College, Bank of New York and is currently Michael Portillo was successively Peter Weinberg was previously chief University of London, and has held a director of Robert Bosch GmbH.
Chief Secretary to the Treasury, executive officer of Goldman Sachs a number of academic posts at He is a former chairman of Karstadt Secretary of State for Employment, International and co-head of the INSEAD, London Business School AG and a former deputy chairman and Secretary of State for Defence.
Partnership Committee, and prior and Cranfield Institute of of Siemens AG.
He entered Parliament in 1984 to that was co-head of the Global Technology.
She was formerly a nonand was admitted to the Privy Investment Banking Division.
He Appointed: 1999 Age: 68 executive director of National Council in 1992, stepping down joined Goldman Sachs in 1988 Westminster Bank plc.
Professor 1 as a Member of Parliament in 2005 and became a partner in 1992.
Michael Hartnall Birley chairs the Boards to pursue a career in broadcasting Peter Weinberg chairs the Boards Formerly finance director of Rexam plc, Remuneration Committee.
prior to which he held senior positions Appointed: 2000 Age: 62 with a number of manufacturing Appointed: 2002 Age: 52 Appointed: 2005 Age: 48 companies.
Phil Carroll director of Lonmin plc and a former 14.
Roberto Quarta Each of the eight non-executive Appointed to the Board in 2005, non-executive director of Elementis Appointed to the Board in 2005, directors listed above is considered Phil Carroll is a former chairman plc.
Michael Hartnall chairs the Roberto Quarta is chairman and to be independent for the purposes and chief executive of Fluor Boards Audit Committee.
He is a was formerly chief executive of BBA of the Combined Code on Corporate Corporation and a former president Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Group plc and, as a partner of the Governance.
and chief executive of Shell Oil Accountants in England and Wales.
private equity firm Clayton, Dubilier Company Inc.
He was appointed by & Rice, also serves as chairman Company Secretary Appointed: 2003 Age: 63 the US Department of Defense in of Rexel SA and Italtel.
He was David Parkes 2003 to serve as the first Senior 1, 3 previously an executive director of 12.
Sir Peter Mason KBE Adviser to the Iraqi Ministry of Oil.
BTR plc and a non-executive director Chief executive of AMEC plc.
He is a former non-executive director of PowerGen plc and Equant NV.
Prior to joining AMEC plc in 1996, of Scottish Power plc.
he served as an executive director Appointed: 2005 Age: 56 of BICC plc, chairman and chief Appointed: 2005 Age: 68 executive of Balfour Beatty Limited 1 10.
Dr Ulrich Cartellieri and chief executive of Norwest Holst 1 Ulrich Cartellieri served as a member Group PLC.
Sir Peter Mason has member of the Audit Committee 2 of the Managing and subsequently been nominated the Boards Senior member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee 3 the Supervisory Board of Deutsche Independent Director.
member of the Nominations Committee 4 Bank AG for over 20 years until 2004. member of the Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee Appointed: 2003 Age: 59 5 Until recently he was also a member member of the Remuneration Committee BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 29 Corporate governance Combined Code compliance policy in 2005 and subsequently undertook new tax rules which come into effect As required by the UKs Combined Code on a consultation with major shareholders.
These new tax rules Corporate Governance the Combined Code result of this process, the following changes introduce the concept of a Lifetime all companies that have a stock market have been made to remuneration policy: Allowance, i. e. the maximum amount of listing in the UK are required to make pension savings that can benefit from tax i Chief Executives remuneration disclosures in relation to corporate governance.
The Company will not compensate The remuneration review concluded individuals, including directors, for the that the remuneration structure for the The Board has considered the Companys tax changes: instead it will offer choices executive directors remained appropriate compliance with the provisions of the that are broadly cost neutral to the and generally in line with the market with the Combined Code and confirms that in Company but which may better suit exception of the remuneration of the the period since 16 June 2005 to the the needs of the individuals affected.
Chief Executive, whose salary was shown to date of this report it was compliant with be below market and for whom the bonus Remuneration policy all provisions.
Prior to this date it believes potential and long-term incentives were The Committees executive remuneration that it was compliant with all provisions significantly below market.
Given policy continues to be to set basic salaries with the exception of provision A.
3.2. the Chief Executives time in the role, at median competitive levels whilst seeking This provision requires that at least half his performance and the performance to reward upper quartile performance with of the Board, excluding the Chairman, of the Group, the Committee agreed potential upper quartile remuneration should comprise non-executive directors the following improvements to the through the use of bonus schemes and determined by the Board to be independent.
Chief Executives package for 2006: share-based incentives.
The Committee intends to continue with the executive Summarised remuneration report Base salary: increased to 870,000 remuneration policy as detailed in this The Remuneration Committee with effect from 1 January 2006: report in 2006 and subsequent years, and The Board has delegated to the Bonus potential: increased to 150% of will continue to consult on material changes Remuneration Committee the Committee base salary but with one third of his with principal shareholders.
responsibility for remuneration policy and bonus to be compulsorily deferred into determining the specific packages for the the new Share Matching Plan see below : Remuneration of executive directors Chairman and the executive directors: the consists typically of basic salary, a bonus Committee also agrees the framework for the Long-term incentives: a 50% increase based on annual performance, participation remuneration of certain other members of in the annual awards of share options in employee share schemes and retirement the executive management team.
The and performance shares to 225% of benefits.
The Committee reviews the split Committees terms of reference conform with base salary in share options and 150% between basic salary and the performance the requirements of the Combined Code, and of base salary in performance shares.
related elements of remuneration each year can be found on the Companys website or These increases in annual awards will in order to incentivise properly executive obtained from the Company Secretary.
give a total combined expected value of directors, and believes that a significant long-term incentives including the new proportion of remuneration should be Remuneration principles Share Matching Plan of around 150% based on schemes that encourage them The Committees remuneration strategy is of base salary.
to perform at the highest level.
Through to provide a remuneration package that: These enhancements will position the this arrangement, it is possible for those helps attract, retain and motivate the Chief Executives overall reward package individuals who contribute to sustained high highest calibre executives: in line with the market median.
levels of company performance to receive at is aligned to shareholders interests least a similar level of reward from variable ii Executive Share Schemes to create sustainable long-term compensation to that received from fixed Subject to formal shareholder approval shareholder value: compensation.
At median performance, in May 2006, the Restricted Share Plan variable remuneration represents is competitive against the appropriate referred to on page 31 will be replaced approximately 50% of the remuneration market, providing median reward for by a Share Matching Plan SMP and will package as shown in the chart below: median performance and upper quartile have performance conditions attached reward for upper quartile performance: to the vesting of matching shares.
The Target performance median current Performance Share Plan PSP will encourages and supports a high be replaced by a similar PSP, also subject to Salary 32% performance culture whilst providing a Pension 20% formal shareholder approval in May 2006. balance between fixed and variable reward: Bonus 16% Further details of the new SMP and PSP and Long-term are included in the AGM Notice of Meeting incentive rewards 32% is fair and transparent and can be applied accompanying this Review.
iii UK executive pension arrangements In a separate exercise from the Executive remuneration review 2005 remuneration review, the Committee The package of the Chief Executive is more highly The Remuneration Committee undertook geared with almost 60% of the remuneration being has concluded its review of UK executive a formal review of executive remuneration performance related.
pension arrangements in view of the 30 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 At upper quartile performance variable Total shareholder return and also take account of behavioural remuneration represents significantly performance.
The maximum bonus potential 125 more than 50% of the total package.
for 2006 remains the same as for 2005 at 100% of salary 150% for the US based 100 Basic salary executive director, Mark Ronald with the 75 Executive directors salaries are exception of the maximum bonus potential reviewed each year by the Committee for the Chief Executive which has increased 50 and adjusted to reflect performance to 150% of base salary with at least and the competitiveness of salaries one-third of his bonus being compulsorily 25 relative to the market.
Information on deferred into the new Share Matching Plan.
0 the market for comparable management 31 Dec 00 31 Dec 01 31 Dec 02 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 05 positions is obtained from independent Share option schemes and long-term BAE Systems plc sources and is provided to the Committee incentive schemes FTSE 100 Index so that it can form a view as to where to Through the use of share-based incentive position basic salaries and benefits schemes the Committee seeks to align the This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2005, of relative to comparable companies.
interests of the executive directors with 100 invested in BAE Systems on 31 December 2000 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE those of other shareholders.
The other points plotted are the values at The methodology used is to construct operates a combination of option and intervening financial year ends.
appropriate comparator groups for the share-based awards for executive directors individual positions taking account of within the following framework which is in The graph, which has been produced in accordance with company size, scale of operations and line with similar plans operated by other the requirements of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act breadth of role.
As there is no readily FTSE 100 companies: 1985, shows the total shareholder return for a holding available market data for the Group Legal Options granted under the Executive in the Companys ordinary shares for the period 2000- Director, the Committee has used the data Share Option Plan are to be set at a 2005 relative to a holding of shares representing the FTSE 100.
The FTSE 100 is considered to be an for the other executive director roles as a maximum of 1.5 x base salary 2.25 x appropriate comparator for this purpose as it is a guide to position his package.
The median base salary for the Chief Executive.
As BAE Systems is a and upper quartile positions are then Vesting of options is subject to the constituent member of the FTSE 100, it was deemed analysed for base salary, total cash reward achievement of real earnings per share to be the most appropriate general UK equity index.
base salary plus annual bonus, total direct EPS growth targets over a three-year reward total cash reward plus long-term performance period.
There will be no Executive directors who participate in the incentives and total reward including retesting after the three year performance pension.
This gives the Committee a view period for options to be granted in 2006.
Annual Bonus Plan may be given the option on the competitiveness of the individual of taking any net cash bonus paid partly or Awards under the Performance Share elements as well as the package as a wholly in shares through the Restricted Plan are to be set at 1 x base salary 1.5 whole.
The Committee also reviews the Share Plan RSP for which a matching x base salary for the Chief Executive.
trends in the elements of remuneration to award of shares is made after three years The median level of vesting for the 2006 ensure that the structure of the package providing the individual normally remains in awards will be 25% of the shares under stays in line with market practice, and also the Companys employment at the vesting award if the Companys total shareholder takes account of the performance of the date.
The matching award is not subject return TSR performance share price individual, the Company as a whole and the to performance criteria as the RSP was growth plus dividends over a three-year pay and conditions of group employees.
designed to retain key staff and encourage performance period is in the top 50% of them to invest the cash bonuses they the TSR comparator group, with 100% Annual bonus plan have earned under the bonus plan which of the shares under award being released The executive directors and other senior was itself based on performance criteria.
Intermediate executives participate in a cash bonus The RSP will operate in 2006 but will be positions will be calculated on a straight scheme that rewards those individuals if prereplaced by the new SMP referred to on line pro-rata basis.
Vesting will also be determined targets are met.
The targets are page 30 in 2007 and will have performance subject to the Committee being satisfied derived from the Integrated Business Plan conditions attached to the matching shares.
there has been a sustained improvement IBP, which is agreed by the Board and which in underlying financial performance.
The implements corporate strategy on a groupThe UK based executive directors are also TSR comparator group comprises 18 wide basis by ensuring that business plans entitled to participate in the Companys other major defence and aerospace which support the strategy are integrated Share Incentive Plan, an all-employee companies operating internationally.
The IBP is used to share plan.
set the objectives for senior management In determining the performance criteria, the including the base and stretch targets for the Committee took the view that EPS is a key Post-retirement benefits financial measures used for the executive indicator of long-term financial performance The executive directors of the Company are directors in the Annual Bonus Plan.
Nonand value creation and that TSR is an indication members of group pension schemes and financial targets comprise key objectives of earnings and capital growth relative to pay contributions at the same rate as all relevant to the individual and or business the industry-specific comparator group.
other employees participating in the BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 31 Corporate governance continued Directors remuneration schemes except where they have already reached normal retirement age.
2005 2004 Basic salary Fees Bonus Benefits Total Total The Company has been in consultation 000 000 000 000 000 000 with the UK employee representatives Chairman and National Trade Union Officials to R L Olver 500 5 505 257 address its UK pension scheme deficits.
Executive directors Proposals are being put to the trustees 1 C V Geoghegan 445 423 25 893 842 of the Main UK Pension Scheme following M Lester 540 529 31 1,100 1,030 the support shown by a recent Trade Union 1 S L Mogford 445 441 24 910 850 Consultative ballot and a survey carried out 1, 2 M H Ronald 495 744 32 1,271 1,096 by the Company on measures to be taken 1, 2 G W Rose 500 495 27 1,022 928 in respect of the Main Pension Scheme.
1 M J Turner 800 792 46 1,638 1,486 These measures include changes to Non-executive directors benefits in respect of future service Prof S Birley 63 63 55 accrual.
All changes, which at the date of P J Carroll 18 18 n a this Review remain subject to approval by Dr U Cartellieri 53 53 45 the trustees of the Main Pension Scheme, M J Hartnall 73 73 65 will apply to the pension arrangements Sir Peter Mason 63 63 55 of the UK based executive directors who Rt Hon M Portillo 53 53 45 are active members of that scheme.
R Quarta 18 18 n a Consultations with employee P A Weinberg 34 34 n a representatives and National Trade Union Past directors Officials are continuing in respect of the Sir Richard Evans n a n a n a n a n a 208 resolution of deficit issues in relation to the Lord Hesketh 16 16 45 other UK pension schemes.
P Scaroni n a n a n a n a n a 7 3,225 891 3,424 190 7,730 7,014 Executive directors service contracts appointed during the year It is the Remuneration Committees policy retired as a director in 2004 that executive directors should normally retired as a director in 2005 1 accruing retirement benefits under defined benefit schemes at 31 December 2005 have service contracts that provide for 2 accruing benefits under money purchase arrangements at 31 December 2005 the Company to give the individual 12 months notice of termination.
This policy All emoluments and compensation paid to directors during the year are shown in the table.
Where the individual was appointed during the year the amount shown is for the period from appointment.
has been chosen because it provides a reasonable balance between the need The aggregate amount of unrealised gains made by directors on share options was 85,110 and the aggregate to retain the services of key individuals net value of assets received by directors from long-term incentive plans was 155,058.
The aggregate amount of company contributions paid in respect of money purchase retirement benefits for directors was 572,382 being i a and the need to limit the liabilities of the payment of 3,004 to Mark Ronalds 401 k plan: and ii a payment of 569,378 to George Roses FURBS Company in the event of the termination arrangement comprising a normal contribution of approximately 377,328, plus a payment of approximately of a contract.
Mark Ronald, who has a 192,000 to deal with investment under-performance prior to 2003. one-year rolling contract, is entitled inter As a result of the detailed salary review undertaken by the Remuneration Committee, the base salary of the executive alia to compensation of a lump sum equal directors has increased with effect from 1 January 2006 to the following: Chris Geoghegan: 467,500: Michael to one years salary if his contract is not Lester: 567,500: Steve Mogford: 467,500: Mark Ronald: $1,000,000: George Rose: 530,000: and Mike Turner: 870,000.
Mark Ronalds base salary was increased from $850,000 to $950,000 with effect from 1 July 2005 renewed at the end of its term.
following the acquisition of United Defense and its subsequent integration into the Land & Armaments business group.
Within the 2005 Annual Bonus Plan for executive directors, all the financial targets were met at the stretch level.
In Chairman addition, excellent progress was made against all the key non-financial objectives although more work still needs to be Dick Olver was appointed Chairman on done in securing technology transfer from the US to the UK.
Accordingly, bonus payments for 2005 as set out in the 1 July 2004.
He is required to devote at table above range from 95% to 99% of the maximum bonus.
least two days a week to his duties as The Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee has agreed the following fee structure for the non-executive directors Chairman, unless his appointment is in 2006: Chairman of the Audit Committee: 70,000: Chairmen of the Remuneration Committee and the Corporate terminated earlier in accordance with the Responsibility Committee, and the Senior Independent Director: 65,000: and each of the other non-executive directors: Companys Articles of Association, or by 50,000.
In addition a transatlantic meeting allowance of 4,000 per meeting is paid to European based non-executive directors attending board meetings in the US and to US based non-executive directors attending meetings in Europe.
either party giving to the other not less than six months prior written notice.
Non-executive directors are paid a fee executives in 2005 and 2006 are Non-executive directors reflecting the time commitment required set out in the table above.
Fees payable to the non-executive of the director.
The fee level for the The Chairman and non-executive directors directors are agreed by the Non-Executive chairmen of the individual committees Directors Fees Committee.
and the Senior Independent Director do not have service contracts but do have reflects their additional responsibilities a letter of appointment detailing the basis and workload.
Fees payable to nonof their appointment.
32 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December Total Total 2005 2005 2004 2004 m m m m Continuing operations Combined sales of Group and equity accounted investments 15,411 13,222 Less: share of equity accounted investments 4,392 4,405 Revenue 11,019 8,817 Operating costs 10,579 8,369 Other income 247 110 Group operating profit excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 809 668 Amortisation 77 13 Impairment 45 97 Group operating profit 687 558 Share of results of equity accounted investments excluding finance costs and taxation expense 373 348 Finance costs 11 27 Taxation expense 149 105 Share of results of equity accounted investments 213 216 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA 1,182 1,016 Amortisation 77 13 Impairment 45 97 Finance costs of equity accounted investments 11 27 Taxation expense of equity accounted investments 149 105 Operating profit 900 774 Finance costs Financial income 1,224 609 Financial expense 1,428 758 204 149 Profit before taxation 696 625 Taxation expense UK taxation 37 58 Overseas taxation 76 110 113 168 Profit for the year from continuing operations 583 457 Loss for the year from discontinued operations 28 454 Profit for the year 555 3 Attributable to: BAE Systems shareholders 553 2 Minority interests 2 1 555 3 Earnings per share Continuing operations: Basic earnings per share 18.3p 14.2p Diluted earnings per share 18.2p 14.2p Discontinued operations: Basic loss per share 0.9 p 14.8 p Diluted loss per share 0.8 p 14.8 p Total: Basic earnings loss per share 17.4p 0.6 p Diluted earnings loss per share 17.4p 0.6 p BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 33 Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2005 2004 m m Non-current assets Intangible assets 8,217 6,115 Property, plant and equipment 1,704 1,746 Investment property 218 155 Equity accounted investments 1,721 1,469 Other investments 9 66 Other receivables 912 511 Other financial assets 65 Deferred tax assets 1,331 1,090 14,177 11,152 Current assets Inventories 485 498 Trade and other receivables including amounts due from customers for contract work 1,877 2,198 Current tax 20 Other investments 634 763 Other financial assets 54 Cash and cash equivalents 2,581 1,651 5,651 5,110 Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale 407 6,058 5,110 Total assets 20,235 16,262 Non-current liabilities Loans 3,534 2,113 Trade and other payables 432 464 Retirement benefit obligations 4,101 3,210 Other financial liabilities 45 Deferred tax liabilities 23 14 Provisions 375 241 8,510 6,042 Current liabilities Loans and overdrafts 905 951 Trade and other payables 7,006 6,154 Other financial liabilities 81 Current tax 316 200 Provisions 343 250 8,651 7,555 Liabilities directly associated with non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale 270 8,921 7,555 Total liabilities 17,431 13,597 Net assets 2,804 2,665 Capital and reserves Issued share capital 80 143 Share premium 782 412 Equity option of convertible preference shares 78 Other reserves 4,720 5,323 Retained earnings 2,872 3,223 1 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 2,788 2,655 Minority interests 16 10 1 Total equity 2,804 2,665 1 2004 includes 266m non-equity shareholders funds Approved by the Board on 22 February 2006 and signed on its behalf by: M J Turner G W Rose Chief Executive Group Finance Director 34 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 Consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 31 December 2005 2004 m m Profit loss for the year Continuing operations 583 457 Discontinued operations 28 454 555 3 Taxation expense includes 1m 2004 7m from discontinued operations 114 175 Share of results of equity accounted investments 213 216 Net finance costs includes 3m 2004 nil from discontinued operations 207 149 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 524 861 Gain loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2 12 Gain loss on disposal of investment property 43 40 Gain loss on disposal of business continuing operations 12 Gain loss on disposal of business discontinued operations 8 Impairment of other investments 2 5 Cost of equity-settled employee share schemes 16 8 Movements in provisions 99 46 Increase in liabilities for retirement benefit obligations 98 7 Increase decrease in working capital: Inventories 54 58 Trade and other receivables 4 703 Trade and other payables 864 709 Cash inflow from operating activities 2,099 2,350 Interest paid 213 197 Interest element of finance lease rental payments 17 27 Taxation paid 27 31 Net cash inflow from operating activities 1,842 2,095 Dividends received from equity accounted investments 88 69 Interest received 99 66 Purchases of property, plant and equipment 318 343 Capital expenditure on investment property 12 Purchases of intangible assets 17 23 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 30 81 Proceeds from sale of investment property 54 50 Proceeds from sale of non-current investments 30 Purchase of non-current other investments 17 50 Purchase of subsidiary undertakings 2,262 663 Net cash acquired with subsidiary undertakings 128 113 Proceeds from sale of subsidiary undertakings 460 Cash and cash equivalents disposed of with subsidiary undertakings 1 Proceeds from sale of equity accounted investments 125 Net proceeds from sale purchase of other deposits securities 45 51 Net cash outflow from investing activities 1,566 751 Capital element of finance lease rental payments 89 141 Proceeds from issue of share capital 373 Equity dividends paid 315 281 Dividends paid on preference shares 21 21 Cash inflow from loans 1,005 Cash outflow from repayment of loans 357 219 Net cash inflow outflow from financing activities 596 662 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 872 682 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 1,650 970 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 31 2 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2,491 1,650 Cash and cash equivalents 2,581 1,651 Overdrafts 90 1 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2,491 1,650 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 35 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense for the year ended 31 December 2005 2004 m m Currency translation on foreign currency net investments: Subsidiaries 53 56 Equity accounted investments 23 59 Change in fair value of Exchange Property 13 Adjustment to interest in net assets of Saab AB 2 Amounts charged to hedging reserve 688 Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes: Subsidiaries 652 803 Equity accounted investments 72 146 Current tax on items taken directly to equity 3 Deferred tax on items taken directly to equity: Subsidiaries 193 281 Equity accounted investments 276 35 Net income recognised directly in equity 916 733 Profit for the year 555 3 Total recognised income and expense 361 730 Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 422 61 730 Attributable to: Equity shareholders 363 730 Minority interest 2 361 730 Auditors statement Statement of the independent auditors to Basis of opinion Respective responsibilities the members of BAE Systems plc pursuant of directors and auditors We conducted our work in accordance with to section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 The directors are responsible for preparing Bulletin 1999 6 The auditors statement We have examined the summary financial the Annual Review in accordance with on the summary financial statements statements set out on pages 33 to 36. applicable United Kingdom law.
Our issued by the Auditing Practices Board for responsibility is to report to you our opinion use in the United Kingdom.
Our report on This statement is made solely to the on the consistency of the summary financial the Groups full annual financial statements Companys members, as a body, in statements within the Annual Review with describes the basis of our audit opinion on accordance with section 251 of the the full annual financial statements, and those financial statements.
Our work has been the directors remuneration report, and its Opinion undertaken so that we might state to the compliance with the relevant requirements Companys members those matters we of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 In our opinion the summary financial are required to state to them in such a and the regulations made thereunder.
statements are consistent with the full statement and for no other purpose.
annual financial statements and the To the fullest extent permitted by law, We also read the other information directors remuneration report of we do not accept or assume responsibility contained in the Annual Review and BAE Systems plc for the year ended to anyone other than the Company and consider the implications for our report 31 December 2005 and comply with the Companys members as a body, for if we become aware of any apparent the applicable requirements of section our work, for this statement, or for the misstatements or material inconsistencies 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and opinions we have formed.
with the summary financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants London Registered Auditor 22 February 2006 36 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 Operating and financial review BAE Systems at a glance Shareholder information BAE Systems is the premier transatlantic defence and aerospace company delivering a full range of products and services for air, land and naval forces as well as advanced electronics, information technology solutions and customer support services.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2005 37 BAE Systems is an international company BAE SYSTEMS plc Annual Review 2005 CONTENTS 6 Carlton Gardens engaged in the development, delivery and support Results in brief, London SW1Y 5AD highlights and outlook 1 United Kingdom of advanced defence and aerospace systems in Telephone 44 0 1252 373232 Chairmans letter 2 the air, on land, at sea and in space.
