NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 1 GENERAL INFORMATION CLS Holdings plc the Company and its subsidiaries together CLS Holdings or the Group are an investment property group which is principally involved in the investment, development and management of commercial properties.
The Groups principal operations are carried out in the United Kingdom, Sweden and Continental Europe.
The Company is registered in the UK, registration number 2714781, of registered address: 26th Floor, Portland House, Bressenden Place, London SW1E 5BG.
The Company has its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange.
2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
2.1 Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements of CLS Holdings are for the year ended 31 December 2005.
They have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for use in the European Union IFRS, and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations.
The IFRS standards and IFRIC interpretations are subject to amendment by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and endorsement by the European Commission and therefore subject to possible change.
These are the Groups first annual consolidated financial statements prepared under IFRS, as such these consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of IFRS.
These financial statements are prepared in accordance with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Group has applied the mandatory exceptions and certain of the optional exemptions from full retrospective application of IFRS as allowed under IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 1.
The policies set out below have been consistently applied to all the years presented except as for those relating to the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
The Group has made use of the exemption available under IFRS 1 to only apply IAS 32 and IAS 39 from 1 January 2005.
The policies applied to financial instruments for 2004 and 2005 are disclosed separately below.
CLS Holdings consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP until 31 December 2004.
UK GAAP differs in some areas from IFRS.
In preparing the Groups 2005 consolidated financial statements, management has amended certain accounting, valuation and consolidation methods applied in the UK GAAP financial statements to comply with IFRS.
The comparative figures in respect of 2004 were restated to reflect these adjustments, except as described in the accounting policies.
Reconciliations and descriptions of the effect of the transition at 1 January 2004 from UK GAAP to IFRS on the Groups equity and its net income and cash flows are provided in note 38.
Disclosures with regard to the Groups adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 at 1 January 2005 also provided in note 38.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of investment property and financial instruments including available-for-sale financial assets, derivative financial instruments and financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss or equity, as appropriate.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the Companys accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are described in note 4.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
64 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.2 Consolidation a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
b Joint ventures The Groups interests in jointly controlled entities are accounted for by proportionate consolidation.
The Group combines its share of the joint ventures individual income and expenses, assets and liabilities and cash flows on a line-by-line basis with similar items in the Group financial statements.
The Group recognises the portion of gains or losses on the sale of assets by the Group to the joint venture that is attributable to the other venturers.
The Group does not recognise its share of the profits or losses from the joint venture that result from the Groups purchase of assets from the joint venture until it resells the assets to an independent party.
However, a loss on the transaction is recognised immediately if the loss provides evidence of a reduction in the net realisable value of the current assets, or an impairment loss.
c Associates Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in associates includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition.
The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates.
65 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.3 Segment reporting A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
2.4 Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
b Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities held at fair value through profit and loss, are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss.
Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities classified as available-for-sale financial assets, are included in the fair value reserve in equity from 1 January 2005. c Group companies The results and financial position of all the Group entities none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet: ii income and expenses for each income statement are translated at the average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions : and iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity cumulative translation adjustment.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to the cumulative translation reserve.
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
66 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.5 Investment property Property that is held for long-term rental yields or for capital appreciation or both, and that is not occupied by the companies in the consolidated Group, is classified as investment property.
Investment property comprises freehold land, freehold buildings, land held under operating leases and buildings held under finance leases.
Land held under operating leases is classified and accounted for as investment property when the rest of the definition of investment property is met.
The operating lease is accounted for as if it were a finance lease.
Investment property is measured initially at its cost, including related transaction costs.
After initial recognition, investment property is carried at fair value.
Fair value is based on active market prices, adjusted, if necessary, for any difference in the nature, location or condition of the specified asset.
If this information is not available, the Group uses alternate valuation methods such as recent prices on less active markets or discounted cash flow projections.
These valuations are performed in accordance with the guidance issued by the International Valuation Standards Committee.
These valuations are reviewed semi-annually by external valuers.
Investment property that is being redeveloped for continuing use as investment property, or for which the market has become less active, continues to be measured at fair value.
The fair value of investment property reflects, among other things, rental income from current leases and assumptions about rental income from future leases in the light of current market conditions.
The fair value also reflects, on a similar basis, any cash outflows that could be expected in respect of the property.
Some of those outflows are recognised as a liability, including finance lease liabilities in respect of land classified as investment property: others, including contingent rent payments, are not recognised in the financial statements.
Subsequent expenditure is charged to the assets carrying amount only when it is probable that future economic benefit associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Changes in fair values are recorded in the income statement.
If an investment property becomes owner-occupied, it is reclassified as property, plant and equipment, and its fair value at the date of reclassification becomes its cost for accounting purposes.
Property that is being constructed or developed for future use as investment property is classified as property, plant and equipment and stated at cost until construction or development is complete, at which time it is reclassified and subsequently accounted for as investment property.
If an item of property, plant and equipment becomes an investment property because its use has changed, any differences resulting between the carrying amount and the fair value of this item at the date of transfer is recognised in equity as a revaluation of property, plant and equipment under IAS 16.
However, if a fair value gain reverses a previous impairment loss, the gain is recognised in the income statement.
Hotel buildings held by the Group are not owner occupied.
The Group rents the buildings to third-party operators who run the hotels.
2.6 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less subsequent depreciation and impairment.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that the future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to their residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Property, plant and equipment 4 - 15 years The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
67 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.7 Investments Policy applicable from 1 January 2004 to 31 December 2004 Shares, warrants & options Shares, warrants and options are held on the balance sheet at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is determined by the quoted market price in respect of listed instruments and Directors valuation regarding non-listed instruments.
Profits are only recognised on shares once they are sold and on options when either the maturity date is reached or the exposure on the option is closed out.
Income received on options which have not yet reached maturity is held as deferred income.
Policy applicable from 1 January 2005 onwards The Group classifies its investments in the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments, and available-for-sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the investments were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its investments at initial recognition and reviews this designation at each reporting date.
a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading, and those designated at fair value through profit or loss at inception.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated by management.
Derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets if they are either held for trading or are expected to be realised within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Loans and receivables are initially measured at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost.
They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current assets.
Loans and receivables are included in trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
c Held-to-maturity investments Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the Groups management has a positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
During the year, the Group did not hold any investments in this category.
d Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on trade-date the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss.
Investments are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit and loss are subsequently carried at fair value.
Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale are recognised in equity.
When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the income statement as gains or losses from investment securities.
The fair values of quoted investments are based on current bid prices.
If the market for a financial asset is not active and for unlisted securities, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques.
These include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis, and option pricing models refined to reflect the issuers specific circumstances.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered in determining whether the securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
68 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.8 Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of net identifiable assets including intangible assets of the acquired subsidiary associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries and joint ventures is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in investments in associates.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Research and Development Research expenditure is recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs incurred on development projects are recognised as intangible assets when it is probable that the project will be a success, considering its commercial and technological feasibility, and costs can be measured reliably.
2.9 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts.
2.10 Trade receivables Policy applicable from 1 January 2005 onwards Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment in trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the income statement.
2.11 Inventories Properties that are being developed for future sales are reclassified as inventories at their deemed cost, which is the carrying amount at the date of reclassification.
They are subsequently carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less cost to complete redevelopment and selling expenses.
2.12 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as assets held for sale and are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell if their carrying amount is recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
A discontinued operation is a component of an entity that either has been disposed of, or is classified as held for sale, and: represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
The Group early adopted IFRS 5 from 1 January 2004 and applied it prospectively from that date in accordance with the standards provisions.
The application of IFRS 5 does not impact on the prior year financial statements other than a change in the presentation of the results and cash flows of discontinued operations.
2.13 Impairment of assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
69 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.14 Borrowings Policy applicable from 1 January 2004 to 31 December 2004 Borrowings are raised by the Group to finance holdings of investment properties.
These are secured, in the main, on the individual properties to which they relate.
All borrowings are taken up in the local currencies from specialist property Lending institutions.
Issue costs relating to new loans are capitalised and amortised to follow the profile of the loan principal.
Unamortised amounts at the balance sheet date are deferred against the loan liability.
Policy applicable from 1 January 2005 onwards Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
2.15 Income tax The charge for current taxation is based on the results for the year as adjusted for items which are non-taxable or disallowed.
It is calculated using the rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Tax payable on capital gains realised on investment properties that have been revalued in previous periods is included in the current tax charge and any related deferred tax provision is released.
Deferred income tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method.
Provision is made for temporary differences between the carrying value of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the values used for tax purposes.
Temporary differences are not provided for when they arise from initial recognition of assets and liabilities that do not affect accounting or taxable profit.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities and is calculated using rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the tax jurisdiction in which the temporary differences arise.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the assets can be used.
The deferred income tax assets and liabilities are only offset if there is a legally enforceable right of set off.
When distributions are controlled by the Group, and it is probable the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future, deferred tax which would arise on the distribution of profits realised in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures is provided in the same period as the liability to pay the distribution is recognised in the financial statements.
2.16 Provisions Provisions for legal claims are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Where the Group, as lessee, is contractually required to restore a leased property to an agreed condition, prior to release by a lessor, provision is made for such costs as they are identified.
2.17 Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and is stated net of sales taxes and value added taxes.
Revenue includes Rental and similar revenue, Service charge and similar revenue, Revenue from cable operations.
Revenue is recognised as follows: Revenue from investment property: a Rental and similar revenue Rental revenue from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
When the Group provides incentives to its customers, the cost of incentives are recognised over the lease term, on a straight-line basis, as a reduction of rental revenue.
b Service charge and similar revenue Service and management charge revenue is recognised on a gross basis in the accounting period in which the services are rendered.
Where the Group is acting as an agent, the commission rather than gross revenue is recorded as revenue.
Revenue from equity investment: c Revenue from cable operations Revenue comprises amounts invoiced, excluding trade discounts and intra-Group trading.
70 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.18 Leases a A Group company is the lessee i Operating lease leases in which substantially all risks and rewards of ownership are retained by another party, the lessor, are classified as operating leases.
Payments, including prepayments, made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
ii Finance lease leases of assets where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the lease commencement date at the lower of the fair value of the leased assets and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in current and non-current borrowings.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
The investment properties acquired under finance leases are carried at fair value.
b A Group company is the lessor i Operating lease properties leased out under operating leases are included in investment property in the balance sheet.
ii Finance lease when assets are leased out under a finance lease, the present value of the lease payments is recognised as a receivable.
The difference between the gross receivable and the present value of the receivable accrues as finance income.
Lease income is recognised over the term of the lease using the net investment method before tax, which reflects a constant periodic rate of return.
2.19 Employee benefits a Pension obligations The Group operates various defined contribution plans.
The Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in future payments is available.
In Sweden, the total pension benefits are a combination, with some parts being defined contribution plans and others defined benefit plans.
Defined benefit plans relate to the Swedish ITP pension plan which is administered by Alecta.
The Swedish Financial Accounting Standards Councils interpretations committee defined this plan as a multi-employer defined benefit plan.
The Group did not have access to information from Alecta that would have made it possible for this plan to be reported as a defined benefit plan.
Therefore, the plan has been reported as a defined contribution plan.
This treatment is consistent with other Swedish companies investing in similar pension plans.
b Share-based compensation The Group operated an equity-settled, share-based compensation plan.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, profitability and sales growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
2.20 Share capital Policy applicable from 1 January 2005 onwards Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options, or for the acquisition of a business, are included in the cost of acquisition as part of the purchase consideration.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
71 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.21 Tender offer buy-backs In lieu of paying dividends, a distribution by way of a tender offer buy-back is made twice yearly.
Shares purchased by way of the tender offer are currently retained as treasury shares.
Up to 10% of the issued share capital can be held as treasury shares.
Where the Company purchases its own shares out of free reserves and cancels the shares, a sum equal to the nominal value of the shares so purchased shall be transferred to the capital redemption reserve account.
The total cost of the tender offer buy-back is charged to retained earnings.
3 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 3.1 Risk management factors Policy applicable from 1 January 2004 to 31 December 2004 Financial instruments are held by the Group to manage interest and foreign exchange rate risk.
Hedging instruments such as interest rate caps are acquired from prime banks.
The Group has thereby hedged all of its interest rate exposure and a significant proportion of its foreign exchange rate exposure.
Group's policy is to hedge the following exposures: Interest rate risk - using interest rate caps Currency risk - using local currency borrowing, forward foreign currency contracts and swaps Policy applicable from 1 January 2005 onwards The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow interest-rate risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Risk management is carried out by the central treasury department Group Treasury under policies approved by the Board of Directors.
Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close cooperation with the Groups operating units.
The Board provides written principals for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest-rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and not-derivative financial instruments, and investing excess liquidity.
a Market risk i Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the Swedish Kroner, and the Euro.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised monetary assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations which are denominated in a currency that is not the entitys functional currency.
The Group has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
The primary management of currency exposure arising from the translation of net assets of the Groups foreign operations in Sweden and Europe is through denominating borrowings in the relevant foreign currencies.
To manage the residual foreign exchange risk the Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts transacted by Group Treasury.
Group Treasury is responsible for managing the net position in each foreign currency by using external forward currency contracts.
ii Price risk The Group is exposed to property price and market rental risks.
The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk because of investments held by the Group and classified on the consolidated balance sheet either as available-for-sale, or at fair value through profit or loss.
The Group is not exposed to commodity price risk.
b Credit risk The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk.
It has policies in place to ensure that rental contracts are made with customers with an appropriate credit history.
Derivative counterparties and cash transactions are limited to high-creditquality financial institutions.
The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any financial institution.
c Liquidity risk Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions.
Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying businesses, Group Treasury aims to maintain flexibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available.
72 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 3 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED 3.1 Risk management factors continued d Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings note 26.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Borrowings issue at fixed rate rates expose the Group to fair value interest-rate risk.
The Group manages its cash flow interest-rate risk by using: floating-to-fixed interest-rate swaps, caps, floors and collars.
Interest-rate swaps have the economic effect of converting borrowings from floating rates to fixed rates.
Under the interestrate swaps, the Group agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals mainly quarterly, the difference between fixed contracts and floating-rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional interest amounts.
3.2 Accounting for financial instruments and hedging activities Policy applicable from 1 January 2004 to 31 December 2004 Gains and losses on instruments used for hedging are not recognised and are effectively deferred in the balance sheet.
Book values of the cap may differ from the fair value.
Gains and losses on forward foreign exchange contracts arise due to movements in the exchange rate.
These gains and losses are taken to reserves and matched with the change in value of the foreign net asset investment.
Interest rate caps The premium paid for interest rate caps used to hedge borrowings is held within debtors on the balance sheet and amortised over the period of the cap.
Forward foreign exchange contracts When forward foreign exchange contracts are entered into to hedge the Groups net investment in overseas operations, any gains and losses on those contracts are taken directly to reserves.
Any potential losses on forward contracts at the balance sheet date are similarly provided for, although potential profits are deferred until they crystallise.
Any premium paid is taken to the profit and loss account in the year.
Policy applicable from 1 January 2005 onwards Derivatives The Group uses derivatives to help manage its interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes.
Derivatives are recognised initially at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: 1 hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedge : 2 hedges of highly probable forecast transactions cash flow hedges : or 3 hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
Hedge accounting Where a financial instrument is designated as a hedge, the Group formally documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item as well as its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking the various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in the hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting the changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged items.
a Fair value hedge accounting Changes in fair value of derivatives that qualify and are designated as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
b Cash flow hedge accounting For qualifying cash flow hedges, the fair value gain or loss associated with the effective portion of the cash flow hedge is recognised initially directly in shareholders equity, and recycled to the income statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit and loss.
Any ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised immediately in the income statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecasted transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
73 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 3 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED 3.2 Accounting for financial instruments and hedging activities continued c Hedges of net investments Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised directly in equity: the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are recognised in the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
d Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
3.3 Fair value estimation The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as publicly traded derivatives, and trading and available-forsale securities is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price: the appropriate quoted market price for financial liabilities is the current ask price.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over-the-counter derivatives is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Group uses its judgement to select a variety of methods and make assumptions that are mainly based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used for long-term debt.
such as estimated discounted cash flows, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
The fair value of interest-rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
4 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and based on historical experience as adjusted for current market conditions and other factors.
4.1 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
a Estimate of fair value of investment properties The best evidence of fair value is current prices in an active market for similar lease and other contracts.
In the absence of such information, the Group determines the amount within a range of reasonable fair value estimates.
In making its judgement, the Group considers information from a variety of sources including: i current prices in an active market for properties of different nature, condition or location or subject to different lease or other contracts, adjusted to reflect those differences: ii recent prices of similar properties in less active markets, with adjustments to reflect any changes in economic conditions since the date of the transactions that occurred at those prices: and iii discounted cash flow projections based on reliable estimates of future cash flows, derived from the terms of any existing lease and other contracts, and where possible from external evidence such as current market rents for similar properties in the same location and condition, and using discount rates that reflect current market assessments of the uncertainty in the amount and timing of the cash flows.
b Principal assumptions for managements estimation of fair value of investment properties If information on current or recent prices of assumptions underlying the discounted cash flow approach investment properties are not available, the fair values of investment properties are determined using discounted cash flow valuation techniques.
The Group uses assumptions that are mainly based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
The principal assumptions underlying managements estimation of fair value are those related to: the receipt of contractual rentals: expected future market rentals: void periods: maintenance requirements: and appropriate discount rates.
These valuations are regularly compared to actual market yield data, and accrual transactions by the Group and those reported by the market.
The expected future market rentals are determined on the basis of current market rentals for similar properties in the same location and condition.
74 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 4 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS CONTINUED 4.1 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions continued c Income Taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in different jurisdictions.
Significant estimates are required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes.
There are some transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which determination is made.
4.2 Critical judgements in applying the entitys accounting policies a Distinction between investment properties and owner-occupied properties The Group determines whether a property qualifies as investment property.
In making its judgement, the Group considers whether the property generates cash flows largely independently of the other assets held by an entity.
Owner-occupied properties generate cash flows that are attributable not only to property but also to other assets used in the production or supply process.
Some properties comprise a portion that is held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation and another portion that is held for use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes.
If these portions can be sold separately or leased out separately under a finance lease, the Group accounts for the portions separately.
If the portions cannot be sold separately, the property is accounted for as investment property only if an insignificant portion is held for use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes.
Judgement is applied in determining whether ancillary services are so significant that a property does not qualify as investment property.
The Group considers each property separately in making its judgement.
b Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets The Group follows the guidance of IAS 39 revised 2004 on determining when an investment is  impaired.
This determination requires significant judgement.
In making this judgement, the Group evaluates, among other factors, the duration and extent to which the fair value of an investment is less than its cost: and the financial health of and near-term business outlook for the investee, including factors such as industry and sector performance, changes in technology and operational and financing cash flow.
5 SEGMENT INFORMATION Primary reporting format geographical segments The Groups operations are managed on a country-by-country basis.
The Group operates in three principal geographic areas of the world: 1 United Kingdom 2 Sweden 3 Continental Europe There are no transactions between the geographical segments.
The unallocated segments represents group items, being current and deferred tax.
Segment assets include primarily investment properties, property plant and equipment, intangible assets, trade and other receivables, and cash and cash equivalents, and investments where appropriate.
Segment liabilities comprise borrowings, including finance leases and other operating liabilities.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to investment property, property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, including additions resulting from acquisitions through business combinations.
The segment results for the year ended 31 December 2005 are as follows: United Continental Kingdom Sweden Europe Unallocated Total 000 000 000 000 000 Continuing operations Revenue 40,256 24,179 20,604 85,039 Operating profit before gains losses on investment properties 21,464 14,259 18,457 54,180 Net gain from fair value adjustment on investment property 24,137 9,819 33,217 67,173 Loss on disposal of part share of JV 1,106 1,106 Profit from sale of investment property 1,489 366 1,855 Finance income 652 244 529 1,425 Finance costs 22,053 10,761 4,840 37,654 Share of loss of associates post tax 1,216 1,216 Profit before tax 23,367 13,561 47,729 84,657 Tax charge on profit 23,160 23,160 Profit for the year from continuing operations 61,497 75 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 5 SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED Primary reporting format geographical segments continued Other information: United Continental Kingdom Sweden Europe Unallocated Total 000 000 000 000 000 Assets 575,587 313,320 361,821 14,025 1,264,753 Associates 3,526 3,526 Total assets 579,113 313,320 361,821 14,025 1,268,279 Liabilities 347,641 206,535 212,415 147,908 914,499 Capital expenditure 14,438 36,258 24,511 75,207 Depreciation 384 110 10 504 Segmental information for the Groups discontinued operations is presented in note 32.
The segment results for the year ended 31 December 2004 are as follows: United Continental Kingdom Sweden Europe Unallocated Total 000 000 000 000 000 Continuing operations Revenue 39,193 23,102 19,080 81,375 Operating profit before gains losses on investment properties 28,417 13,438 16,284 58,139 Net gain from fair value adjustment on investment property 26,404 2,854 7,978 37,236 Loss profit from sale of investment property 56 520 464 Finance income 671 174 956 1,801 Finance costs 21,439 7,962 6,465 35,866 Share of loss of associates post tax 1,701 1,701 Profit before tax 32,296 8,504 19,273 60,073 Tax charge on profit 16,638 16,638 Profit for the year from continuing operations 43,435 Other information: United Continental Kingdom Sweden Europe Unallocated Total 000 000 000 000 000 Assets 529,903 289,378 300,218 13,813 1,133,312 Associates 3,010 3,010 Total assets 532,913 289,378 300,218 13,813 1,136,322 Liabilities 324,858 179,239 179,566 128,853 812,516 Capital expenditure 16,915 25,532 32,545 74,992 Depreciation 428 107 9 544 Segmental information for the Groups discontinued operations is presented in note 32.
76 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 5 SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED Secondary reporting format business segments Although the Group operates on a country-by-country geographic basis, the Group operates in two distinct operating divisions: 1 Investment property, and 2 Equity investment 2005 2004 000 000 Continuing operations: Revenue Investment property 85,039 81,375 Equity investment 85,039 81,375 Total assets Investment property 1,239,935 1,117,614 Equity investment 28,344 18,708 1,268,279 1,136,322 Capital expenditure Investment property 75,207 74,992 Equity investment 75,207 74,992 Segmental information for the Groups discontinued operations is presented in note 32.
6 OTHER OPERATING INCOME 2005 2004 000 000 Investment income 3,034 Realised gains losses on available-for-sale financial assets note 17 1,114 Other property related income 1,058 400 Other income 1,188 717 Total 3,360 4,151 7 EXPENSES BY NATURE 2005 2004 000 000 Auditors remuneration for audit services 260 260 Auditors remuneration for non-audit services 105 5 Depreciation and amortisation 504 544 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 425 327 Repairs and maintenance 243 179 Bad debt expense 902 440 Employee benefit expense note 8 7,430 4,899 Legal fees 3,549 618 Operating lease rentals 610 415 Other expenses 4,414 5,928 Total 18,442 13,615 Classified as: Administrative expenses 14,910 9,984 Net property expenses 3,532 3,631 Total 18,442 13,615 77 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 8 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE 2005 2004 000 000 Wages and salaries 5,603 3,783 Social security costs 1,049 530 Share options granted to directors and employees 6 10 Pension costs defined contribution plans 231 169 Other employee related expenses 541 407 Total 7,430 4,899 Please refer to the Directors remuneration report for details of Directors emoluments, who are considered to be the Key Management as defined by IAS 24.
The monthly average number of persons employed by the Group for continuing operations, including Executive Directors were as follows: 2005 2004 Male 35 39 Female 40 38 Total 75 77 9 FINANCE INCOME 2005 2004 000 000 Finance income: Foreign exchange variances 47 86 Interest income 1,472 1,715 Total 1,425 1,801 10 FINANCE COSTS 2005 2004 000 000 Interest expense: Bank borrowings 31,286 28,949 Debentures 4,698 4,693 Finance leases 55 67 Other interest 9 59 Amortisation of issue costs of loans 1,392 1,099 Caps, collar and floor amortisation 999 Derivative financial instruments note 18 Interest-rate swaps: cash flow hedges transfer from equity 141 Interest-rate swaps: transactions not qualifying as hedges 66 Interest-rate caps, collars and floors: transactions not qualifying as hedges 7 Total 37,654 35,866 78 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 11 INCOME TAX EXPENSE Continuing operations Year ended 31 December 2005 000 Current tax 1,304 Deferred tax note 25 21,856 Total 23,160 Continuing operations Year ended 31 December 2004 000 Current tax 596 Deferred tax note 25 16,042 Total 16,638 In addition to the deferred tax expense charged to the profit and loss, a deferred tax credit of 2,896 thousand has been recognised directly in equity see note 25.
On adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 at 1 January 2005, a net deferred tax liability of 1,872 thousand was recognised directly in equity.
The tax on the Groups profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate applicable to profits of the consolidated companies as follows: 2005 2004 000 000 Profit before tax: Continuing operations 84,657 60,073 Tax calculated at domestic tax rates applicable to profits in the respective countries 24,803 17,455 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2,125 1,950 Tax effect of unrecognised losses in associates 338 Agreement of previously unrecognised tax losses 322 2,054 Different taxation on treatment of disposals 1,917 74 Losses used through consortium relief by minorities 1,380 234 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 487 873 Tax expense for the year 23,160 16,638 The weighted average applicable tax rate was 29.3% 2004: 29.1%.
79 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 12 EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding ordinary shares purchased by the Company and held as treasury shares see note 22.
Diluted Diluted earnings per share is calculated adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The Group has only one category of dilutive potential ordinary shares: those share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year, the effect of these dilutive securities is to increase weighted average shares by 595,000 shares 2004: 585,000 shares.
2005 2004 2005 Earnings 2004 Earnings Earnings per share Earnings per share 000 Pence 000 Pence Earnings per share: Basic earnings per share 55,537 67.5 40,511 47.0 Dilution Share options 0.5 0.3 Diluted earnings per share 55,537 67.0 40,511 46.7 Earnings per share from continuing operations: Basic earnings per share 55,537 67.5 40,511 47.0 Less discontinued operations Pre tax losses from discontinued operations 6,192 7.5 4,002 4.6 Basic earnings per share continuing operations 61,729 75.0 44,513 51.6 Dilution Share options 0.5 0.3 Diluted earnings per share continuing operations 61,729 74.5 44,513 51.3 Earnings per share from discontinued operations: Discontinued operations Pre tax losses from discontinued operations 6,192 7.5 4,002 4.6 Basic earnings per share discontinued operations 6,192 7.5 4,002 4.6 Dilution Share options Diluted earnings per share discontinued operations 6,192 7.5 4,002 4.6 The weighted average number of shares for the period was 82,316,545 2004: 86,113,994.
80 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 13 INVESTMENT PROPERTIES 2005 2004 000 000 At beginning of year 1,022,539 918,721 Net exchange differences 27,024 6,179 Business acquisitions 9,105 32,343 Property acquisitions 21,883 7,537 Capital expenditure 43,342 28,874 Disposal 45,587 8,351 Net gain from fair value adjustments on investment property 67,173 37,236 Rent free period debtor adjustments 4,930 At end of year 1,096,361 1,022,539 The investment properties were revalued at 31 December 2005 to their fair value, valuations were based on current prices in an active market for all properties.
The property valuations were carried out by Allsop & Co for the UK and Swedish properties and DTZ Debenham Tie Leung for Continental European properties, who are independent, professionally qualified valuers.
Investment property includes buildings held under finance leases of which the carrying amount is 45,897 thousand 2004: 43,044 thousand.
The period of leases whereby the Group leases out its investment property under operating leases is typically 3 years or more.
No contingent rents were recognised in 2005 2004: nil.
14 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Property, Property in plant and the course of equipment construction Total 000 000 000 Cost At 1 January 2004 10,155 2,478 12,633 Additions 1,545 3,192 4,737 Disposals 2,181 2,181 Exchange rate differences 17 17 At 31 December 2004 9,536 5,670 15,206 Additions 1,764 967 2,731 Disposals 6,374 6,374 Exchange rate differences 77 77 At 31 December 2005 4,849 6,637 11,486 Depreciation At 1 January 2004 3,308 3,308 Depreciation charge 1,330 1,330 Disposals 152 152 Exchange rate differences 10 10 At 31 December 2004 4,496 4,496 Depreciation charge 1,460 1,460 Impairment 1,000 1,000 Disposals 3,547 3,547 Exchange rate differences 42 42 At 31 December 2005 3,367 3,367 Net book value At 31 December 2004 5,040 5,670 10,710 At 31 December 2005 1,482 6,637 8,119 81 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 14 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases The net book amount of property, plant and equipment held under finance leases was nil 2004: 122 thousand.
The depreciation expense charged to the income statement in relation to property, plant and equipment held under finance leases was 7 thousand 2004: nil.
Property, plant and equipment held under operating leases Lease rentals amounting to 27 thousand 2004: 28 thousand relating to the lease of property, plant and equipment are included in the income statement.
15 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Other Goodwill intangibles Total 000 000 000 Cost and net book value At 1 January 2004 427 427 Additions 2,509 421 2,930 At 31 December 2004 2,509 848 3,357 Additions 252 89 341 At 31 December 2005 2,761 937 3,698 Intangible assets include Goodwill includes 2,509 thousand which arose from the acquisition of a French property portfolio through a business combination in 2004, and 252 thousand which arose from the acquisition of a German property business during 2005.
Other intangibles of 937 thousand include internally generated capitalised development and other costs.
Impairment of intangible assets The Group tests intangible assets annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that intangible assets might be impaired.
Management has reviewed the intangible asset balances for impairment and has concluded that there has been no impairment during the year.
16 INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES Net assets Goodwill Total 000 000 000 At 1 January 2004 412 2,813 3,225 Additions 1,698 1,698 Share of loss profit 58 58 Other equity movements 199 13 212 Impairment 1,643 1,643 At 31 December 2004 155 2,855 3,010 Additions 1,714 1,714 Share of loss profit 420 420 Other equity movements 230 230 Impairment 271 525 796 Exchange rate differences 18 18 At 31 December 2005 1,426 2,100 3,526 82 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 16 INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES CONTINUED The Groups interest in its principal associates, all of which are unlisted, were as follows: Profit Interest Assets Liabilities Revenues loss held Year ended 31 December 2005 000 000 000 000 % Keronite Limited incorporated in England and Wales 775 775 822 1,757 47.9 Lunarworks AB incorporated in Sweden 1,992 566 2,532 541 48.2 Total 2,767 1,341 3,354 1,216 Profit Interest Assets Liabilities Revenues loss held Year ended 31 December 2004 000 000 000 000 % Keronite Limited incorporated in England and Wales 643 1,268 532 1,918 46.1 Lunarworks AB incorporated in Sweden 1,193 413 1,690 217 45.1 Total 1,836 1,681 2,222 1,701 The carrying amount of the Keronite investment has been reduced to nil through the recognition of an impairment loss of 796 thousand 2004: 1,643 thousand the impairment loss was based on discounted cash flow projections.
These losses have been included in the income statement.
Keronite Limited has a balance sheet date of 31 March and Lunarworks AB has a balance sheet date of 31 December.
17 AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS Available-forsale financial assets 000 At 31 December 2004 Adoption of IAS 32 IAS 39 reclassification from investments at 1 January 2005, see note 38 10,663 Adoption of IAS 32 IAS 39 revaluation of investments at 1 January 2005, see note 38 12,008 At 1 January 2005 22,671 Acquisition of subsidiary Additions 3,382 Disposals 1,200 Provision charged to profit and loss 441 Revaluation deficit movements in equity 10,377 Exchange rate differences 117 At 31 December 2005 13,918 Less: non-current portion 13,918 Current portion 83 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 17 AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS CONTINUED Available-for-sale financial assets include the following: 2005 000 Listed securities Equity securities UK 9,371 Equity securities Sweden 1,372 Equity securities US 58 Government securities UK 150 10,951 Unlisted securities Equity securities UK 2,156 Equity securities Sweden 221 Equity securities US 527 Equity securities Other 22 2,926 Other investments 41 Total 13,918 This line item is only used from 1 January 2005, the IAS 32 and IAS 39 transition date.
Disclosures for the year ended 31 December 2004 under previous GAAP are located in note 36.
18 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 2005 2005 Assets Liabilities 000 000 Interest-rate swaps cash flow hedges 353 890 Interest-rate swaps not qualifying as hedges 207 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 92 Interest-rate caps, collars and floors not qualifying as hedges 457 78 Total 810 1,267 Less non-current portion: Interest-rate swaps cash flow hedges 353 890 Interest-rate swaps not qualifying as hedges Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 92 Interest-rate caps, collars and floors not qualifying as hedges Non-current portion 353 982 Current portion 457 285 Interest-rate swaps The notional principal amounts of the outstanding interest-rate swap contracts at 31 December 2005 was 108.3 million.
The average period to maturity of of the interest-rate swaps was 2.7 years.
Forward foreign exchange contracts The Group provides funds for working capital investment in re-development of investment properties in Sweden.
The Group hedges the risk of adverse foreign exchange rate movements by entering into forward foreign exchange contracts.
This line item is only used from 1 January 2005, the IAS 32 and IAS 39 transition date.
84 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 19 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2005 2004 000 000 Non-current Prepayments 315 1,065 Other debtors 950 2,098 1,265 3,163 Current Trade receivables 4,109 3,989 Prepayments 1,593 1,564 Accrued income 449 3,943 Other debtors 2,244 2,200 8,395 11,696 Total 9,660 14,859 There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables, as the Group has a large number of tenants, internationally dispersed.
Included in the above non-current other debtors balance is an amount due from the sale of the WightCable business, this has been discounted at 8.0% representing the time value of money.
20 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2005 2004 000 000 Cash at bank and in hand 112,841 52,285 Short term bank deposits 5,321 5,086 Total 118,162 57,371 At 31 December 2005, Group cash at bank and in hand included 3,861 thousand 2004: 3,449 thousand of cash deposits which are subject to either a legal assignment or a charge in favour of a third party.
Cash and short-term deposits are invested at competitive floating rates of interest based on relevant national LIBID and base rates or equivalents in Jersey, the UK, Sweden and France.
The fair value of short-term deposits approximates to the carrying amount because of the short maturity of these financial instruments.
Interest rate risk of financial assets: Cash at bank Short-term and in hand deposits Total Year ended 31 December 2005 000 000 000 Sterling 58,642 4,925 63,567 Swedish Kroner 10,714 10,714 Euro 43,474 396 43,870 Other 11 11 Total 112,841 5,321 118,162 Cash at bank Short-term and in hand deposits Total Year ended 31 December 2004 000 000 000 Sterling 14,283 4,712 18,995 Swedish Kroner 13,048 13,048 Euro 24,936 374 25,310 Other 18 18 Total 52,285 5,086 57,371 85 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 21 JOINT VENTURES The Group has an interest in two joint ventures: Teighmore Limited, incorporated in Jersey, of which the Group owns 33 1 3 per cent of the ordinary share capital 2004: 33 1 3 per cent.
New London Bridge House Limited, incorporated in England and Wales, of which the Group owns 33 1 3 per cent of the ordinary share capital 2004: 50 per cent.
On 16 December 2005 the Group disposed of 1 3 of its share in New London Bridge House Limited, this resulted in a loss on disposal of 1,106 thousand.
The principal activity of the above joint venture companies is development, management and investment in commercial properties.
The following amounts represent the Groups share of the assets and liabilities, sales and results of the above joint ventures.
They are included in the balance sheet and income statement: New London Teighmore Bridge House Total Year ended 31 December 2005 000 000 000 Assets: Non-current assets 24,999 16,376 41,375 Current assets 341 378 719 25,340 16,754 42,094 Liabilities: Non-current liabilities 12,652 9,758 22,410 Current liabilities 2,458 1,271 3,729 15,110 11,029 26,139 Net assets 10,230 5,725 15,955 Income 924 2,114 3,038 Expenses 941 1,381 2,322 Profit after income tax 17 733 716 New London Teighmore Bridge House Total Year ended 31 December 2004 000 000 000 Assets: Non-current assets 24,003 22,500 46,503 Current assets 557 758 1,315 24,560 23,258 47,818 Liabilities: Non-current liabilities 12,623 15,259 27,882 Current liabilities 3,395 1,924 5,319 16,018 17,183 33,201 Net assets 8,542 6,075 14,617 Income 929 2,211 3,140 Expenses 961 1,794 2,755 Profit after income tax 32 417 385 86 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 22 SHARE CAPITAL Ordinary Total Number of shares in Treasury ordinary shares circulation shares shares thousands 000 000 000 At 1 January 2004 87,644 21,911 21,911 Employee share option scheme: proceeds from shares issued 291 72 72 Purchase of own shares: pursuant to tender offer 411 411 Cancellation of shares pursuant to tender offer 2,438 609 609 At 31 December 2004 85,497 20,963 411 21,374 Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 At 1 January 2005 85,497 20,963 411 21,374 Employee share option scheme: proceeds from shares issued 30 8 8 Issue of shares 4 4 Purchase of own shares: pursuant to tender offer 850 850 pursuant to market purchase 111 111 At 31 December 2005 85,527 20,014 1,368 21,382 The total authorised number of ordinary shares is 160 million shares 2004: 160 million shares with a par value of 25 pence per share 2004: 25 pence per share.
All shares issued are fully paid.
Treasury shares Treasury shares held at 31 December 2005 were 5,469,490 2004: 1,644,176.
During the year the Company acquired 3,843,835 of its own shares, of which 3,402,835 were purchased through the tender offer 2004: 4,082,066, and 441,000 were purchased through the market 2004: nil.
During the year the Company re-issued 18,521 2004: nil of its own shares.
6,610 224 Total 30,000 In addition, during the year 40,000 options were surrendered and 80,000 new options were granted.
23 OTHER RESERVES Share Capital Cumulative Cash flow premium redemption translation hedge Fair value Other reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 At 1 January 2004 68,928 11,693 11,888 28,101 120,610 Employee share option scheme: value of service provided 10 10 proceeds form shares issued 356 356 Cancellation of shares 609 609 Currency translation differences 485 485 At 31 December 2004 69,284 12,302 12,373 28,111 122,070 Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 262 9,512 9,774 At 1 January 2005 69,284 12,302 12,373 262 9,512 28,111 131,844 Employee share option scheme: value of service provided 6 6 proceeds form shares issued 56 56 Issue of shares 79 79 Currency translation differences 7,663 7,663 Available-for-sale financial assets: fair value gains in the period 10,377 10,377 tax on fair value gains 2,896 2,896 Cash flow hedges: fair value gains in the period 940 940 transfer to net profit 141 141 At 31 December 2005 69,419 12,302 4,710 537 2,031 28,117 116,042 24 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2005 2004 000 000 Non-current portion Other payables 1,279 1,279 Current Trade payables 4,896 7,829 Social security and other taxes 1,952 2,094 Other payables 6,208 6,160 Accruals 14,182 13,036 Deferred income 18,156 15,009 45,394 44,128 Total 45,394 45,407 88 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 25 DEFERRED INCOME TAX Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
The offset amounts are as follows: 2005 2004 000 000 Deferred tax assets: Deferred tax assets to be recovered after more than 12 months 14,025 13,813 Deferred tax liabilities: Deferred tax liability to be recovered after more than 12 months 146,109 127,951 Total 132,084 114,138 The movement on the deferred income tax account is as follows: Total 000 At 1 January 2004 93,339 Charged to the income statement 16,042 Acquisition of subsidiaries 3,806 Exchange differences 951 At 31 December 2004 114,138 Deferred tax effects on adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 1,872 At 1 January 2005 116,010 Charged to the income statement 21,856 Release from equity 2,896 Acquisition of subsidiaries 252 Exchange differences 3,138 At 31 December 2005 132,084 The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: Tax losses Other Total Deferred tax assets: 000 000 000 At 1 January 2004 8,131 6,327 14,458 Charged to the income statement 428 217 645 At 31 December 2004 7,703 6,110 13,813 Deferred tax effects on adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 1,016 1,016 At 1 January 2005 7,703 7,126 14,829 Charged to the income statement 21 873 894 Release from equity 90 90 At 31 December 2005 7,682 6,343 14,025 89 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 25 DEFERRED INCOME TAX CONTINUED Tax on Deduction for fair value UK capital adjustments allowances to investment Other Total Deferred tax liabilities: 000 property 000 000 At 1 January 2004 14,631 93,166 107,797 Charged to the income statement 928 14,447 22 15,397 Acquisition of subsidiary 3,806 3,806 Exchange differences 951 951 At 31 December 2004 15,559 112,370 22 127,951 Deferred tax effects on adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 2,888 2,888 At 1 January 2005 15,559 112,370 2,910 130,839 Credited charged to the income statement 413 21,229 146 20,962 Release from equity 2,806 2,806 Acquisition of subsidiary 252 252 Exchange differences 2,970 168 3,138 At 31 December 2005 15,146 130,881 82 146,109 Net deferred tax liabilities asset 132,084 Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry-forwards to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through the future taxable profits is probable.
At 31 December 2005 the Group did not recognise deferred income tax assets of 5,378 thousand 2004: 1,072 thousand in respect of losses amounting to 17,926 thousand 2004: 3,478 thousand that can be carried forward against future taxable income or gains in those entities.
The majority of deferred tax assets recognised within the other category relate to buildings which have fallen below original cost.
26 BORROWINGS, INCLUDING FINANCE LEASES Total Current Non-current borrowings At 31 December 2005 000 000 000 Bank loans 23,689 640,818 664,507 Debentures loans 634 37,404 38,038 Other loans 833 14,664 15,497 Finance lease liabilities 183 1,705 1,888 Total 25,339 694,591 719,930 Total Current Non-current borrowings At 31 December 2004 000 000 000 Bank loans 15,858 563,514 579,372 Debentures loans 570 38,038 38,608 Other loans 844 16,984 17,828 Finance lease liabilities 216 1,931 2,147 Total 17,488 620,467 637,955 Arrangement fees of 6,541 thousand 2004: 6,060 thousand have been offset against the balances in the above tables.
90 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 26 BORROWINGS, INCLUDING FINANCE LEASES CONTINUED a Bank loans Interest on bank loans is charged at fixed rates ranging between 3.32 per cent and 11.20 per cent including a margin 2004: 4.32 per cent and 11.2 per cent and at floating rates of LIBOR, STIBOR and EURIBOR or equivalent plus a margin.
Fixed rate margins range between 0.70 per cent and 1.80 per cent 2004: 0.70 per cent and 1.80 per cent and floating rate margins range between 0.77 per cent and 3.25 per cent 2004: 0.90 per cent and 3.25 per cent.
All bank loans are secured by legal charges over the respective properties to which they relate, and in most cases, floating charges over the remainder of the assets held in the company that owns the property.
In addition, the share capital of some of the subsidiaries within the Group has been charged.
b Debenture loans The 38.0 million 2004: 38.6 million of debenture loans represent amortising bonds which are repayable in equal quarterly instalments of 1.2 million 2004: 1.2 million with final repayment due January 2025.
Each instalment is apportioned between principal and interest on a reducing balance basis.
Interest is charged at a fixed rate of 10.77 per cent, including margin.
The debentures are secured by a legal charge over the relevant property and securitisation of its rental income.
c Other loans Interest on other loans is charged at fixed rates ranging between 7.5 per cent and 11.6 per cent, including margin.
The loans are secured by legal charges over the respective properties to which they relate.
The maturity profile of the carrying amount of the Groups borrowings, including finance leases at 31 December was as follows: Finance Debt leases Total At 31 December 2005 000 000 000 Within one year or on demand 25,792 184 25,976 In more than one but not more than two years 20,851 255 21,106 In more than two but not more than five years 295,185 1,299 296,484 In more than five years 382,753 152 382,905 724,581 1,890 726,471 Unamortised issue costs 6,539 2 6,541 Total borrowings, including finance leases net of issue costs 718,042 1,888 719,930 Less amount due for settlement within 12 months shown under current liabilities 25,156 183 25,339 Amounts due for settlement after 12 months 692,886 1,705 694,591 Finance Debt leases Total At 31 December 2004 000 000 000 Within one year or on demand 17,945 217 18,162 In more than one but not more than two years 95,881 220 96,101 In more than two but not more than five years 133,623 1,562 135,185 In more than five years 394,416 151 394,567 641,865 2,150 644,015 Unamortised issue costs 6,057 3 6,060 Net Borrowings, including finance leases 635,808 2,147 637,955 Less amount due for settlement within 12 months shown under current liabilities 17,272 216 17,488 Amounts due for settlement after 12 months 618,536 1,931 620,467 91 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 26 BORROWINGS, INCLUDING FINANCE LEASES CONTINUED The maturity profile of the carrying amount of the Groups borrowings, including finance leases at 31 December analysed into bank loans, debenture loans, other loans, and finance leases: 2005 2004 000 000 Bank loans are repayable as follows: Within one year or on demand 24,314 16,531 In more than one but not more than two years 19,302 94,401 In more than two but not more than five years 278,741 118,936 In more than five years 348,678 355,561 671,035 585,429 Unamortised issue costs 6,528 6,057 Total bank loans net of issue costs 664,507 579,372 Less amount due for settlement within 12 months shown under current liabilities 23,689 15,858 Amounts due for settlement after 12 months 640,818 563,514 Debenture loans are repayable by instalments as follows: Within one year or on demand 634 570 In more than one but not more than two years 705 634 In more than two but not more than five years 2,624 2,360 In more than five years 34,075 35,044 Total debenture loans 38,038 38,608 Less amount due for settlement within 12 months shown under current liabilities 634 570 Amounts due for settlement after 12 months 37,404 38,038 Other loans are repayable as follows: Within one year or on demand 844 844 In more than one but not more than two years 844 846 In more than two but not more than five years 13,820 12,327 In more than five years 3,811 15,508 17,828 Unamortised issue costs 11 Total other loans net of issue costs 15,497 17,828 Less amount due for settlement within 12 months shown under current liabilities 833 844 Amounts due for settlement after 12 months 14,664 16,984 Net obligations under finance leases are repayable as follows: Within one year or on demand 184 217 In more than one but not more than two years 255 220 In more than two but not more than five years 1,299 1,562 In more than five years 152 151 1,890 2,150 Unamortised issue costs 2 3 Total obligations under finance leases net of issue costs 1,888 2,147 Less amount due for settlement within 12 months shown under current liabilities 183 216 Amounts due for settlement after 12 months 1,705 1,931 92 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 26 BORROWINGS, INCLUDING FINANCE LEASES CONTINUED The interest-rate risk profile of the Groups fixed rate borrowings, including finance leases was as follows: At 31 December 2005 At 31 December 2004 Fixed rate financial liabilities Fixed rate financial liabilities Weighted Weighted Weighted average Weighted average average period for average period for interest which rate interest which rate rate is fixed rate is fixed % Years % Years Pound sterling 7.21 8.61 7.26 9.45 Swedish kroner 5.61 2.74 5.76 3.73 Euro 4.61 2.21 4.64 3.25 Floating rate financial liabilities bear interest at rates based on relevant LIBOR, STIBOR, EURIBOR or equivalents, which are fixed in advance for periods of between one month and six months.
Further protection from interest rate movement is provided by interest rate caps on 95.5 million of debt at 5.5 per cent to 6.0 per cent expiring within 1 to 5 years 2004: 136 million of debt at 5.5 per cent to 7.0 per cent expiring within 3 to 5 years, 84.9 million of SEK denominated debt at 4.0 per cent to 6.0 per cent expiring within 1 to 4 years 2004: 79 million of debt at 4.5 per cent to 6.0 per cent expiring within 2 to 5 years, and 112.5 million of EURO denominated debt at 4.0 per cent to 6.5 per cent expiring within 1 to 5 years 2004: 109 million of debt at 4.0 per cent to 7.0 per cent expiring within 1 to 5 years.
The carrying amounts of the Groups borrowings, including finance leases are denominated in the following currencies: Fixed rate Floating rate financial financial liabilities liabilities Total At 31 December 2005 000 000 000 Pound sterling 221,690 98,342 320,032 Swedish kroner 88,436 105,694 194,130 Euro 79,376 126,392 205,768 Total 389,502 330,428 719,930 Fixed rate Floating rate financial financial liabilities liabilities Total At 31 December 2004 000 000 000 Pound sterling 221,113 90,023 311,136 Swedish kroner 90,095 63,474 153,569 Euro 81,825 91,425 173,250 Total 393,033 244,922 637,955 Arrangement fees of 6,541 thousand 2004: 6,060 thousand have been offset against the balances in the above tables.
The above floating rate debt is disclosed as such as none of the Groups interest rate caps are currently being drawn upon to cap the rate payable.
Where an interest rate swap has been entered into the resulting debt is reclassified as fixed rate.
In order to mitigate the effect of interest rate fluctuations the Group has purchased interest rates caps or secured fixed rate borrowings in respect of virtually all of its debt.
93 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 26 BORROWINGS, INCLUDING FINANCE LEASES CONTINUED The carrying amounts and fair values of the Groups fixed rate borrowings, including finance leases are as follows: Carrying amounts Fair values 2005 2004 2005 2004 000 000 000 000 Current borrowings, including finance leases 25,339 17,488 25,339 17,488 Non-current borrowings, including finance leases 694,591 620,467 734,099 653,729 Total 719,930 637,955 759,438 671,217 Arrangement fees of 6,541 thousand 2004: 6,060 thousand have been offset against the balances in the above tables.
The fair value of non-current borrowings represent the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arms length transaction between informed and willing parties other than a forced or liquidation sale and excludes accrued interest, discounted at market gilt rates.
The fair value of current borrowings approximates to the carrying value because of the short maturity of these financial instruments.
The Group has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 31 December: 2005 2004 000 000 Floating rate: expiring within one year 5,846 27,939 expiring after one year 14,082 Total 5,846 42,021 The above undrawn facilities expiring within one year at 31 December 2005 have been arranged to help finance the Groups proposed development projects.
27 TENDER OFFER BUY-BACKS As noted in the Directors Report it is proposed that the Company buy back 1 in 42 shares at 600 pence per share in lieu of a final dividend 2004: 1 in 41 shares at 485 pence per share.
In lieu of an interim dividend the Company bought back 1 in 60 shares at 510 pence per share in November 2005 2004: 1 in 52 shares at 390 pence per share.
28 CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS 2005 2004 000 000 Operating profit from continuing operations 122,102 95,839 Loss on discontinued operations 6,192 4,002 Adjustments for: Revaluation surplus on investment properties 67,173 37,236 Depreciation and amortisation 4,803 1,330 Profit loss on sale of fixed assets and investment property 324 464 Other provisions 6 10 Foreign exchange gains losses 120 1,744 Changes in working capital: Increase in debtors 3,111 1,563 Increase decrease in creditors 1,347 88 Cash generated from operations 52,226 52,082 94 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 29 CONTINGENCIES At 31 December 2005 the Company had guaranteed 92.8 million of Group Companies liabilities 2004: 98.8 million.
Of the amount guaranteed, 9.9 million 2004: 9.9 million is limited to a maximum annual liability of 2.1 million 2004: 2.1 million.
30 COMMITMENTS Operating lease commitments where a Group Company is the lessee The Group leases office space under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2005 2004 000 000 Not more than 1 year 497 50 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 1,758 30 Later than 5 years 600 Total 2,255 680 Other commitments At 31 December 2005 the Group had 19.7 million of contracted capital expenditure 2004: 14.3 million.
At 31 December 2005 the Group had no authorised but not contracted for financial commitments 2004: nil.
31 BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS Business acquisitions 2005 Acquisition of Jarrestrasse Immobilian GmbH, Germany On 30 December 2005, the Group acquired Jarrestrasse Immobilian GmbH for a total consideration of 0.6 million.
This purchase has been accounted for as a business acquisition.
The Group effectively acquired 99.45% of the share capital.
From the date of acquisition to 31 December 2005 the acquisition contributed nil to turnover, nil to profit before interest, and nil to profit after interest.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2005, Group revenue would have increased by 670 thousand, and profit for the period would have increased by 296 thousand.
The residual excess over the net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill in the financial statements.
Details of net assets acquired and goodwill are as follows: 000 Purchase consideration: cash paid 1,529 Total purchase consideration 1,529 Fair value of net assets acquired 1,277 Goodwill note 15 252 The goodwill is attributable to the deferred tax which is expected to reverse in the future.
95 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 31 BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS CONTINUED The assets and liabilities arising from the acquisition are as follows: Acquirees Fair carrying value amount 000 000 Cash and cash equivalents 102 102 Investment property 8,602 8,602 Receivables 33 Payables 7,430 7,178 Net assets acquired 1,277 1,529 Purchase consideration settled in cash 1,529 Cash and cash equivalents in subsidiary acquired 102 Cash outflow on acquisition 1,427 Business disposals On 16 December 2005, CLS Holdings disposed of the business and substantially all of the assets of WightCable Limited, the Isle of Wight based telecommunications and television company, in which CLS had a 74.5% interest.
The business and assets were sold for 2,430 thousand, being 1,430 thousand of immediate cash consideration with the balance repayable in two further equal cash instalments at the end of 2006 and 2007.
Control passed to the acquirer on the 16th December 2005.
A loss of 141 thousand arose on the disposal, being the proceeds of disposal less the carrying amount of the subsidiarys net assets, directly attributable costs and provisions.
Disposal of the business and assets of WightCable Ltd: 000 Business and assets at carrying value 2,273 Disposal costs 298 2,571 Less consideration received 2,430 Loss on disposal 141 See note 32 for further disclosures regarding business disposals classified as discontinued operations.
See note 35 for further disclosures regarding business disposals which took place after the balance sheet date but before the approval of these financial statements.
32 NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS Held for sale assets and liabilities Following the approval of the Groups management decision in principle to dispose of the business and substantially all of the assets of WightCable North Limited, the following disposal group has been presented as held for sale.
2005 000 Non-current assets classified as held for sale Liabilities directly associated with non-current assets classified as held for sale: Accrued costs of sale for held for sale assets See note 35 for further disclosures regarding the post balance sheet disposal of WightCable North Limited.
96 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 32 NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS CONTINUED Discontinued operations Following Managements decision in principle to exit the cable business market the results of WightCable Limited and WightCable North Limited have been presented as discontinued operations.
For segmental analysis both of these businesses formed part of the UK equity investment division.
An analysis of the results is as follows: 2005 2004 000 000 Revenue 5,644 5,524 Operating expense 9,771 9,342 Operating loss 4,127 3,818 Finance expense 150 184 Loss before tax 4,277 4,002 Taxation Loss after tax 4,277 4,002 Loss on disposal of assets 491 Acquisition of minority interest 1,316 Accrued costs for disposal of assets 108 Taxation Loss for the year from discontinued operations 6,192 4,002 The companies loss for the year approximates to their net operating cash outflows.
33 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS CLSH Management Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of CLS Holdings plc, acts as an agent in respect of the collection of rental income and payment of loan interest for Teighmore Limited and New London Bridge House Limited, joint ventures of the Group.
At 31 December 2005 Teighmore Limited was owed 0.8 million by the Group 2004: 0.8 million and New London Bridge House Limited owed 0.2 million 2004: owed 0.1 million.
A Group company, Forvaltnings AB Klio, rents office space from a company owned by Sten Mortstedt.
The total payable in the year was 29 thousand 2004: 15 thousand.
A company owned by Sten Mortstedt also purchased accountancy services from Forvaltnings AB Klio during the year amounting to 6 thousand 2004: 6 thousand.
34 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of CLS Holdings plc and the principal subsidiaries listed in the table below.
The Directors consider that to give full particulars of all subsidiary undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length.
The following information relates to those wholly owned subsidiary companies whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affected the figures of the Group.
All of these subsidiaries were incorporated in England and Wales with the exception of Vnerparken Property Investment KB, Solna Business Holdings AB, Lvgrdet Residential KB and Lvgrdet Business KB which are incorporated in Sweden, Hamersley International BV which is incorporated in the Netherlands, and Hermalux SARL which is incorporated in Luxembourg.
Brent House Limited Hermalux SARL Three Albert Embankment Limited Carlow House Limited Ingrove Limited Vauxhall Cross Limited CI Tower Investments Limited Mohican Nominees Limited Vnerparken Property Investment KB Citadel Holdings PLC New London House Limited Vista Centre Limited CLSH Management Limited New Printing House Square Limited Solna Business Holdings AB Great West House Limited One Leicester Square Limited Lvgrdet Residential KB Hamersley International BV Spring Gardens Limited Lvgrdet Business KB The principal activity of each of these subsidiaries is property investment apart from CLSH Management Limited whose principal activity is property management, Citadel Holdings PLC, Hermalux SARL, Hamersley International BV and Solna Business Holdings AB whose principal activity is as a holding company.
To comply with the Companies Act 1985, a full list of subsidiaries will be filed with the Companys next annual return.
97 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 35 EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE Business disposals WightCable North Limited On 20 January 2006, the sale of the business and substantially all of the assets of WightCable North Limited, a cable company, was completed.
The financial effect of this transaction was to incur further costs of disposal amounting to 2.2 million, which will be expensed in 2006.
The provisions of IFRS 5 apply to the sale of the disposal group formed from WightCable North Limited, as such the assets and liabilities of the disposal group have been classified as held for sale and the result has been classified as a discontinued operation.
Please refer to note 32 for further disclosures regarding the disposal group formed from WightCable North Limited.
Lvgrdet Capital Partner AB On 1 February 2006, the Group sold the shares of the holding company of the Lvgrdet Group, Lvgrdet Capital Partner AB.
The financial effect of this transaction is to remove the investment properties of the Lvgrdet estate and their associated loans.
At 31 December 2005 these amounted to 39.8 million and 35.2 million respectively.
The assets and liabilities of the Lvgrdet Group have not been reclassified as held for sale and the result has not been classified as a discontinued operation as the provisions of IFRS 5 were not satisfied at 31 December 2005.
36 INVESTMENTS PREVIOUS GAAP Total 000 Current asset investments Shares and warrants 10,492 Balance as at 31 December 2004 10,492 Adoption of IAS 32 IAS 39 reclassification to available-for-sale at 1 January 2005, see note 38 10,492 Balance at 1 January 2005 Non-current asset investments Other investments 171 Balance as at 31 December 2004 171 Adoption of IAS 32 IAS 39 reclassification to available-for-sale at 1 January 2005, see note 38 171 Balance at 1 January 2005 The listed shares and warrants, stated at lower of cost and net realisable value, of 7,356 thousand relate to investments on the London, Swedish, and Swiss Stock Exchanges.
The market value of the listed investments at 31 December 2004 was 19,804 thousand.
The above line items are no longer used from 1 January 2005, the IAS 32 and IAS 39 transition date.
Disclosures for the year ended 31 December 2005 under IAS 32 and IAS 39 are located in note 17.
37 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS PREVIOUS GAAP a Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities The following table provides a comparison by category of the carrying amounts and the fair values of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities at 31 December 2004.
Fair value is the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arms length transaction between informed and willing parties, other than a forced or liquidation sale and excludes accrued interest.
Where available, market values have been used to determine fair values.
Where market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting expected cash flows at prevailing interest and exchange rates.
Set out below the table is a summary of the methods and assumptions used for each category of financial instruments.
98 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 37 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS PREVIOUS GAAP CONTINUED a Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities continued 2004 2004 Book value Fair value 000 000 Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Groups operations: Short term deposits 4,904 4,904 Cash at bank and in hand 51,776 51,776 Derivative financial instruments held to manage the interest rate and currency profile: Interest rate caps and collars 2,568 377 Financial instruments held for trading purposes: Equity investments and other financial assets 10,595 23,034 Assets held for treasury purposes do not attract interest.
Interest rate caps and collars The weighted average periods until maturity for interest rate caps, the financial assets on which no interest is paid, are 2.7 years for sterling caps, 3.4 years for SEK caps and 3.4 years for Euro caps.
Financial instruments held for trading purposes The income statement includes a net gain of 1,534 thousand from financial instruments held for trading.
Summary of methods and assumptions Interest rate cap and forward Fair value is based on market price of comparable instruments at the balance sheet date.
foreign currency contracts Short-term deposits and borrowings The fair value of short-term deposits, loans and overdrafts approximates to the carrying amount because of the short maturity of these instruments.
Equity Investments The fair value of listed equity investments is the quoted market value.
In the case of unlisted equity investments, the fair value is estimated using the British Venture Capital Association guidelines.
Long-term interest bearing debtor The fair value of this asset has been calculated by discounting expected cash flows at the prevailing interest rate.
Long-term borrowings The fair value for floating rate loans approximates to the carrying value reported in the balance sheet as payments are reset to market rates at intervals of less than one year.
Fixed rate loans have been discounted at gilt rates, which were provided by the banks.
b Hedges The table below shows the extent to which the Group has off balance sheet unrecognised and on balance sheet deferred gains and losses in respect of financial instruments used as hedges at the beginning and end of the year.
It also shows the amounts of such gains and losses which have been included in the profit and loss account for the year and those gains and losses which' are expected to be included in next years or later profit and loss account.
Deferred losses 000 Unrecognised gains and tosses on hedges as at 1 January 2004 1,807 Loss arising before 1 January included in current year expenditure 1,108 Loss arising before 1 January not included in current year income and now deferred 699 Loss arising in current year not included in current year expenditure and now deferred 1,492 Unrecognised gains and losses on hedges as at 31 December 2004 2,191 Of which: Gains and losses expected to be recognised in 2005 916 Gains and losses expected to be recognised in 2006 or later 1,275 Total 2,191 99 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 38 EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS 38.1 Application of IFRS 1 In 2005 the Group adopted IFRS for the first time.
Previously the Group reported under UK GAAP.
The Group has applied IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards to provide a starting point for reporting under IFRS.
The date of transition to IFRS was 1 January 2004 and all information in these financial statements has been restated to reflect the Groups adoption of IFRS.
The adoption of International Financial Reporting and Accounting Standards has resulted in changes to the Groups accounting policies, as stated in notes 1 to 4.
In preparing its opening IFRS balance sheet, the Group has adjusted amounts previously reported in financial statements prepared in accordance with its previous basis of accounting, UK GAAP.
An explanation of how the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS has affected the Groups financial position and financial performance is set out in the following notes, reconciliations and notes to the reconciliations.
In preparing this restatement report in accordance with IFRS 1, the Group has applied the mandatory exceptions and certain of the optional exemptions from full retrospective application of IFRS.
38.2 Exemptions from full retrospective application The Group has applied the following optional exemptions from retrospective application: a Business combinations exemption The Group has applied the business combinations exemption in IFRS 1.
It has not restated business combinations that took place prior to the 1 January 2004 transition date.
b Exemption from restatement of comparatives for IAS 32 and IAS 39 The Group elected to apply this exemption.
It applies previous GAAP rules to derivatives, financial assets and financial liabilities and to hedging relationships for the 2004 comparative information.
IAS 32 and IAS 39 have been applied from 1 January 2005, the date of transition for IAS 32 and IAS 39.
The adjustments required for differences between UK GAAP and IAS 32 and IAS 39 were determined and recognised at 1 January 2005. c Share based payment transaction exemption The Group has elected to apply this exemption.
The Group has applied IFRS 2 from 1 January 2004 to those options that were issued after 7 November 2002 but that have not vested by 1 January 2005. d Designation of previously recognised financial instruments The Group has elected to apply this exemption.
Financial instruments were designated at the IAS 32 and IAS 39 date of transition as at fair value through profit or loss or as available-for-sale.
38.3 Exceptions from full retrospective application The Group has applied the following mandatory exceptions from retrospective application: a Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities exception Financial assets and liabilities derecognised before 1 January 2004 are not re-recognised under IFRS.
The application of the exception from restating comparatives for IAS 32 and IAS 39 means that the Group recognised from 1 January 2005 any financial assets and financial liabilities derecognised since 1 January 2004 that do not meet the IAS 39 derecognition criteria.
Management did not choose to apply the IAS 39 derecognition criteria to an earlier date.
b Hedge accounting exception Management has claimed hedge accounting from 1 January 2005 only when the hedge relationship meets all the hedge accounting criteria under IAS 39. c Estimates exception Estimates under IFRS at 1 January 2004 should be consistent with estimates made for the same date under previous GAAP, unless there is evidence that those estimates were in error.
d Assets held for sale and discontinued operations exception Management has applied IFRS 5 from 1 January 2004.
Any assets held for sale or discontinued operations are recognised in accordance with IFRS 5 from 1 January 2004.
The Group did not have any assets that met the held-for-sale or discontinued operations criteria during the periods presented.
100 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 38 EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS CONTINUED 38.4 Reconciliations between IFRS and UK GAAP as set out below 38.4a Reconciliation of consolidated IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2004 Previously reported Effect of Restated under transition under UK GAAP to IFRS IFRS Notes 000 000 000 Non-current assets Investment properties a, b 882,442 36,279 918,721 Property, plant and equipment a 6,847 2,478 9,325 Intangible assets a 427 427 Investments in associates 3,225 3,225 Investments in joint ventures a 8,499 8,499 Investments 171 171 Deferred income tax assets c 14,458 14,458 Trade and other receivables a 3,695 71 3,766 904,879 45,214 950,093 Current assets Trade and other receivables a, d 7,976 686 8,662 Investments 3,963 3,963 Cash and cash equivalents a 56,693 537 57,230 68,632 1,223 69,855 Total assets 973,511 46,437 1,019,948 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 5,960 5,960 Deferred income tax liabilities c 5,680 102,117 107,797 Borrowings, including finance leases a, b 523,615 27,184 550,799 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 33 33 535,288 129,301 664,589 Current liabilities Trade and other payables a 35,257 2,365 37,622 Current income tax liabilities 1,149 1,149 Borrowings, including finance leases a 16,843 500 17,343 53,249 2,865 56,114 Total liabilities 588,537 132,166 720,703 Net assets 384,974 85,729 299,245 EQUITY Capital and reserves attributable to the Companys equity holders Share capital 21,911 21,911 Other reserves e, f, g 330,739 210,129 120,610 Retained earnings a, c, d, e, f, g 33,224 124,400 157,624 385,874 85,729 300,145 Minority interest 900 900 Total equity 384,974 85,729 299,245 Reformatted to reflect IFRS reporting requirements 101 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 38 EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS CONTINUED 38.4b Reconciliation of consolidated IFRS balance sheet at 31 December 2004 Previously reported Effect of Restated under transition under UK GAAP to IFRS IFRS Notes 000 000 000 Non-current assets Investment properties a, b 981,560 40,979 1,022,539 Property, plant and equipment a, b 5,040 5,670 10,710 Intangible assets a, h 3,357 3,357 Investments in associates h, i 3,010 3,010 Investments in joint ventures a 13,848 13,848 Investments 171 171 Deferred income tax assets c 13,813 13,813 Trade and other receivables a 3,096 67 3,163 1,006,725 50,038 1,056,763 Current assets Trade and other receivables a, d 10,480 1,216 11,696 Investments 10,492 10,492 Cash and cash equivalents a 56,680 691 57,371 77,652 1,907 79,559 Total assets 1,084,377 51,945 1,136,322 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 1,279 1,279 Deferred income tax liabilities c 6,777 121,174 127,951 Borrowings, including finance leases a, b 592,439 28,028 620,467 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 301 301 600,796 149,202 749,998 Current liabilities Trade and other payables a 39,472 4,656 44,128 Current income tax liabilities 902 902 Borrowings, including finance leases a 16,825 663 17,488 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 57,199 5,319 62,518 Total liabilities 657,995 154,521 812,516 Net assets 426,382 102,576 323,806 EQUITY Capital and reserves attributable to the Companys equity holders Share capital 21,374 21,374 Other reserves c, e, f, g, h 374,592 252,522 122,070 Retained earnings a, c, d, e, f, g, h, i 32,394 149,946 182,340 428,360 102,576 325,784 Minority interest 1,978 1,978 Total equity 426,382 102,576 323,806 Reformatted to reflect IFRS reporting requirements 102 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 38 EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS CONTINUED 38.4c Reconciliation of consolidated IFRS income statement for the year ended 31 December 2004 Previously reported Effect of Restated under transition to under UK GAAP IFRS IFRS Notes 000 000 000 Continuing operations: Rental and similar income a, d 71,787 2,688 74,475 Service charge and similar income a 6,401 499 6,900 Total rental revenue 78,188 3,187 81,375 Service charge expense and similar charges a 13,293 479 13,772 Net rental income 64,895 2,708 67,603 Other operating income net 4,151 4,151 Administrative expenses a, e 9,850 134 9,984 Net property expenses b 3,640 9 3,631 Operating profit before net gain on investment properties 55,556 2,583 58,139 Net gain from fair value adjustment on investment property d, g, h 37,236 37,236 Profit on sale of investment properties 464 464 Operating profit 56,020 39,819 95,839 Finance income 1,801 1,801 Finance expense b 35,857 9 35,866 Share of loss profit of associates h, i 1,701 1,701 Share of loss profit of JVs a 2,491 2,491 Profit before tax 22,754 37,319 60,073 Taxation current 596 596 Taxation deferred c, h 1,097 14,945 16,042 Tax charge credit on profit 1,693 14,945 16,638 Profit for the year from continuing operations 21,061 22,374 43,435 Discontinued operations: Loss for the period from discontinued operations after tax 4,002 4,002 Profit for the year 17,059 22,374 39,433 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Company c, d, e, g, h, i 18,137 22,374 40,511 Minority interest 1,078 1,078 17,059 22,374 39,433 Reformatted to reflect IFRS reporting requirements 103 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 38 EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS CONTINUED 38.4d Reconciliation of consolidated IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2005 Effect of adoption of IFRS IAS 32 and IFRS 31 Dec 2004 IAS 39 1 Jan 2005 Notes 000 000 000 Non-current assets Investment property 1,022,539 1,022,539 Property, plant and equipment 10,710 10,710 Intangible assets 3,357 3,357 Investments in associates 3,010 3,010 Available-for-sale investments j 22,671 22,671 Investments j 171 171 Derivative financial instruments j 938 938 Deferred income tax assets c 13,813 1,016 14,829 Trade and other receivables j 3,163 1,968 1,195 1,056,763 22,486 1,079,249 Current assets Trade and other receivables j 11,696 599 11,097 Investments j 10,492 10,492 Derivative financial instruments j 541 541 Cash and cash equivalents 57,371 57,371 79,559 10,550 69,009 Total assets 1,136,322 11,936 1,148,258 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 1,279 1,279 Deferred income tax liabilities 127,951 2,888 130,839 Borrowings, including finance leases 620,467 620,467 Derivative financial instruments j 1,063 1,063 Provisions for other liabilities and charges j 301 301 749,998 3,650 753,648 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 44,128 44,128 Current income tax liabilities 902 902 Derivative financial instruments j 164 164 Borrowings, including finance leases 17,488 17,488 62,518 164 62,682 Total liabilities 812,516 3,814 816,330 Net assets 323,806 8,122 331,928 EQUITY Capital and reserves attributable to the Companys equity holders Share capital 21,374 21,374 Other reserves c, j 122,070 9,774 131,844 Retained earnings c, j 182,340 1,652 180,688 325,784 8,122 333,906 Minority interest 1,978 1,978 Total equity 323,806 8,122 331,928 104 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 38 EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS CONTINUED 38.5 Notes to the IFRS reconciliations a. IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures Under UK GAAP, the Group accounted for interests in joint ventures under the equity accounting method.
Under IFRS, IAS 31 allows companies to make a one-time choice as to whether joint ventures will be accounted under the equity method or proportionally consolidated.
The Group has opted for proportional consolidation of joint venture assets and liabilities as this more closely reflects the substance of the Groups joint venture arrangements, therefore the Groups share of individual assets and liabilities of the joint venture are included within the corresponding line of the balance sheet.
Similarly, the Groups share of operating profit of joint ventures is reanalysed to the corresponding lines of the income statement.
b. IAS 17 Leases Under UK GAAP, leases to occupational tenants were almost invariably treated as operating leases, because the risks and rewards in the underlying freehold were usually assessed as remaining with the landlord.
However, while IAS 17 is based on a similar principle, it lists a number of situations that individually or in combination would require a lease to be classified as a finance lease and, in particular, it requires an entity to consider land and buildings separately, even if the occupational lease is of the property as a whole and does not make such a distinction.
This means that it is more likely that a lease term could be viewed as being for the major part of the economic life of an asset, resulting in finance lease classification of the building element.
The Group has carefully reviewed each of its leases and has concluded that the lease classification and treatment under UK GAAP is consistent with IFRS.
Where an investment property is itself subject to a head or ground lease, that head lease must be treated as if it were a finance lease and accounted for accordingly.
In total only two properties are affected, leading to the recognition of a finance lease liability and an increase in the carrying value of the Groups investment properties.
c. IAS 12 Income taxes This standard requires full provision to be made for deferred income tax on temporary differences.
The main difference compared to the deferred tax provided under UK GAAP is that provision has been made in full for the deferred income tax arising from the revaluation of investment properties.
The deferred income tax has been calculated on the basis that the gain or loss on the properties will be realised through the income generated by holding the properties.
The tax base for each property in its local currency has been compared to the valuation for that property.
Since the deferred income tax liabilities have been calculated on the basis of continued use of the properties no account has been taken of the way in which properties may be sold or of the tax which the Group would expect to be payable on the sale of the properties.
Indexation allowance which would be available to further reduce the taxable capital gains when properties subject to UK corporation tax are sold has similarly not been taken into account.
Deferred income tax is provided as appropriate on the other adjustments which have been made to convert the UK GAAP accounts to IFRS.
d. SIC 15 Operating lease incentives Under SIC 15, the cost of rent free periods and other incentives given to tenants under operating leases must be spread over the term of the lease rather than, as under UK GAAP, to the first review to market rents.
Further, there are no transitional provisions so that incentives granted before the UK standard came into effect have now been brought back into account.
This will therefore change the timing but not the aggregate amount recognised in relation to lease incentives.
For the investment property business the changes amount to minor reclassifications between Rental and similar income, and Net gain from fair value adjustment on investment property in the income statement and Investment properties and Trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
e. IFRS 2 Share-based payments Under IFRS 2, the fair value of share options and other share based payments is recognised as an expense through the income statement over the vesting period.
The Group has elected to apply the IFRS 1, share-based payment exemption, therefore the Group has applied IFRS 2 from 1 January 2004 to those options that were issued after 7 November 2002 but have not vested by 1 January 2005.
105 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 38 EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS CONTINUED 38.5 Notes to the IFRS reconciliations continued f. IAS 21 The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates Under UK GAAP revaluation movements on overseas assets were booked at the closing rate and retranslated at each reporting period.
Since the revaluation movements are now posted to the income statement, they are translated at the average rate.
On transition to IFRS, all previous exchange gains held within the revaluation reserve have been transferred back to the cumulative translation reserve.
g. IAS 40 Investment property Under this standard, investment property will be recognised in the accounts at fair value, with revaluation gains and losses being taken directly to the income statement rather than to the revaluation reserve as was the case under UK GAAP.
Accumulated revaluation surpluses relating to the investment properties at the date of transition to IFRS have been reallocated to retained earnings.
This treatment does not, however, have any impact on the distributable profits.
Full provision for tax on the valuation movements has been provided under IAS 12. h. IFRS 3 Business combinations Under IFRS 3, goodwill on acquisition is no longer amortised, but is held at its UK GAAP carrying value at the transition date, or acquisition date, as appropriate, and is then subject to impairment review at each reporting date.
IFRS 3 uses a different term for negative goodwill and requires it to be taken to the income statement in the year of acquisition.
Previously recognised negative goodwill has been derecognised at the date of transition, with a corresponding adjustment to opening retained earnings.
Under IFRS, the acquisition of properties, whether by outright purchase or by corporate acquisition, are carefully considered on a case by case basis to determine whether they are, in substance, an acquisition of assets or a business.
The Group has elected to apply the IFRS 1, business combination exemption, therefore the Group has not applied IFRS 3 retrospectively to past business combinations.
In the light of IFRS 3, a portfolio acquired during 2004 has been reclassified as a business combination rather than as a purchase of assets.
i. IAS 36 Impairment of assets Under IFRS, certain assets including goodwill are reviewed for impairment.
An asset is carried at more than its recoverable amount if its carrying amount exceeds the amount to be recovered through use or sale of the asset.
If this is the case, the asset is described as impaired and the standard requires the entity to recognise an impairment loss.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount and is recognised in the income statement.
106 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2005 38 EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS CONTINUED 38.5 Notes to the IFRS reconciliations continued j. IAS 32 and IAS 39 Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities such as interest rate swaps, caps, floors and forward foreign exchange contracts have been included in the balance sheet at fair value.
Investments are carried at fair value on the balance sheet.
The Group has taken advantage of the IFRS 1 exemption to not restate comparatives for 2004 under IAS 32 and IAS 39.
The impact of IAS 32 and IAS 39 is therefore effective for the accounting period commencing on 1 January 2005.
The accounting policy adopted from 1 January 2005 is included in notes 2, 3 and 4.
There are a number of effects on the Group which will apply from 1 January 2005.
The IFRS balance sheet at 31 December 2004 has been restated at 1 January 2005 for the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39, and a reconciliation of this has been included above.
Hedge accounting Hedging instruments such as interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts will be included in the balance sheet at fair value.
Movements in fair value of these hedging instruments will be recognised in the income statement or in equity, as appropriate.
To the extent that such instruments are ineffective hedges, they will be included in the balance sheet at fair value with changes in fair value being recognised in the income statement.
Investments Investments will be carried at fair value on the balance sheet, with changes in the fair value being recognised either in the income statement or in equity and recycled through the income statement when the investments are realised, as appropriate.
Under UK GAAP these investments were carried at the lower of cost and market value.
Other financial instruments Movements in the fair value of those derivative financial instruments which are not accounted for as hedging instruments are recognised in the income statement and not by way of a note, as is the case under UK GAAP.
Borrowings The version of IAS 39 adopted by the European Union prohibits the option to carry borrowings at their fair values, and consequently the Group will continue to include borrowings in the balance sheet at amortised cost.
The fair value of borrowings will be disclosed under IAS 32, as is the case under UK GAAP.
38.6 Notes to the IFRS consolidated statement of cash flows The transition to IFRS will not affect the cash flows of the business.
The presentation of the cash flow statement for the Group does not differ significantly from that under UK GAAP, except for the inclusion of short term deposits within the definition of cash and cash equivalents.
Previously these were shown separately from cash as liquid resources.
From 1 January 2005, due to the classification of investments as available-for-sale financial assets, the movement in investments will now be shown in the cash flow statement under cash flows from investing activities rather than in cash generated from operations.
There are no other material differences between the cash flow statement presented under IFRS and the cash flow statement presented under UK GAAP.
