Accounting Policies The accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and with applicable Accounting Standards in the United Kingdom.
The principal accounting policies, which have been applied are: a Basis of accounting The Group prepares its accounts on an historical cost basis.
b Consolidation The Group accounts include the results of the holding company and all its subsidiary undertakings made up to 30th June.
The financial statements of subsidiary undertakings are consolidated from the date when control passed to the Group using the acquisition method of accounting and up to the date of disposal.
All transactions with subsidiaries and inter-company profits or losses are eliminated on consolidation.
Prior to the introduction of Financial Reporting Standard Number 10, Goodwill and intangible assets, goodwill arising on consolidation as a result of the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings was written off against reserves in the year of acquisition.
This goodwill has not been reinstated in the balance sheet.
Any goodwill written off against reserves will be charged to the profit and loss account in the event of the disposal of the related business.
c Turnover Turnover comprises the total proceeds of building and development on legal completion and the value of work executed on long-term contracts during the year excluding inter-company transactions and value added tax.
The sale proceeds of part exchange houses are not included in turnover.
d Investments Investments are valued at cost less provision for any impairment in value.
e Properties held for sale Properties held for sale are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
f Stocks Stocks and work in progress, excluding long term contracting work in progress, are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Profit on contracting is taken on short term contracts when completed, and for long term contracts attributable profit is taken when the final outcome can be foreseen with reasonable certainty: provision is made for any anticipated losses.
Amounts by which turnover in respect of long term contracts exceed payments on account are held in debtors as amounts recoverable on contracts.
Amounts received in respect of long term contracts, in excess of amounts reflected in turnover, are held in creditors as payments on account.
g Depreciation Freehold properties are depreciated on a straight line basis over twenty five years.
Plant is depreciated on a straight line basis over its expected useful life which ranges from one to seven years.
h Leased assets Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account in equal instalments over the life of the lease.
i Exchange translations Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated into sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the year end.
Trading results are translated at the average rate prevailing during the relevant period.
Differences arising on the retranslation of the net investment and the results for the year are taken directly to reserves together with the differences on foreign currency borrowings to the extent that they are used to finance or provide a hedge against Group equity investments in foreign subsidiary undertakings.
All other foreign exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account in the year in which they arise.
j Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
k Pensions The cost of providing retirement pensions and related benefits is charged to the profit and loss account over the periods benefiting from the employees' services.
The effects of variations from regular cost arising from actuarial valuations of the pension scheme are spread over the expected average remaining service lives of the members of the scheme.
The difference between the charge to the profit and loss account and the contributions paid to the scheme is shown as an asset or liability in the balance sheet.
