BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Basis of Accounting Treasury The financial statements have been prepared using the historical Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at cost convention adjusted for the revaluation of certain fixed assets.
the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the The financial statements have been prepared in accordance balance sheet date are recorded at the rates of exchange with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for the prevailing at that date.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in first time.
The disclosures required by IFRS 1 First Time Adoption exchange rates subsequent to the date of transaction is of International Financial Reporting Standards concerning the recognised in the income statement.
transition from UK GAAP to IFRS are given in note 1.
The The income statements of overseas operations are translated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with into Sterling at the average exchange rates for the year and their IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and therefore balance sheets are translated into Sterling at the exchange rates comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
They have ruling at the balance sheet date.
All exchange differences also been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the arising on consolidation are taken to equity.
All other translation International Accounting Standards Board.
differences are taken to the income statement, with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowing and Basis of Consolidation derivative instruments to the extent that they are used to provide The Group income statement, balance sheet and cash flow a hedge against the Groups equity investments in overseas statement incorporate the financial statements of all subsidiary operations, which are taken to equity together with the exchange undertakings under the acquisition method of accounting.
difference on the net investment in those operations.
The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or sold are In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 1, consolidated for the periods from or to the date on which control derivative financial instruments have been accounted for and passed.
Control is achieved where the company has the power to presented on a UK GAAP basis for the year ended 31 December govern the financial and operating policies of an investee so as 2004.
In accordance with UK GAAP, gains or losses on cash flow to obtain benefits from activities.
hedges have been recognised in the income statement when Goodwill on acquisitions, being the excess of the fair value of realised.
Exchange differences arising on translation of the the consideration paid over the fair value of the net tangible and opening net assets and results of overseas operations and on intangible assets acquired, is capitalised and tested for foreign currency borrowings or other currency instruments, to impairment on an annual basis.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions the extent that they hedge the Group's investment in such in the year ended 31 December 1997 and earlier periods was operations, are dealt with through reserves.
Compliance with written off to reserves in accordance with the accounting IAS 32 Revised Financial Instruments Disclosure and standards then in force.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions Presentation and IAS 39 Revised Financial Instruments between 1 January 1998 and 31 December 2003 was amortised Recognition and Measurement would require recognition of the on a straight line basis over its useful economic life, with a fair value of foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swaps maximum life of 20 years, again in accordance with the on the balance sheet as at 31 December 2004. accounting standards then in force.
As permitted by current For the year ended 31 December 2005, derivative financial accounting standards, the goodwill previously written off to instruments have been accounted for and presented under reserves or amortised through the profit and loss account has IAS 32 and IAS 39.
This initial application has been treated not been reinstated in the balance sheet.
as a change in accounting policy in accordance with IAS 8 Associated undertakings are those investments other than Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and subsidiary undertakings where the Group is in a position to Errors.
The main impact of this change in accounting policy is exercise a significant influence, typically through participation in to recognise the fair value of foreign exchange contracts, the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
The interest rate swaps and commodity contracts on the balance consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of sheet with effect from the transitional date of 1 January 2005. the post-acquisition reserves of all such companies.
The effect of this change has been to reduce net assets by 0.9 million at 31 December 2005.
Investments In the Companys financial statements, investments in subsidiary and associated undertakings are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
In the Groups financial statements, investments in associated undertakings are stated at cost plus the Groups share of post-acquisition reserves less provision for impairment.
Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group comprise Trade payables interest rates swaps, cross currency or basis swaps and foreign Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their exchange contracts.
All such instruments are used for hedging nominal value.
purposes to manage the risk profile of an underlying exposure of the Group in line with the Groups risk management policies.
All Equity instruments derivative instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at fair Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the value.
Recognition of gains or losses on derivative instruments proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
depends on whether the instrument is designated as a hedge and the type of exposure it is designed to hedge.
Revenue Recognition The effective portion of gains or losses on cash flow hedges Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration are deferred in equity until the impact from the hedged item is received or receivable, and represents amounts receivable for recognised in the income statement.
The ineffective portion of goods supplied and services provided by the Group excluding such gains and losses is recognised in the income statement intercompany transactions, sales by associated undertakings immediately.
Gains or losses on the qualifying part of net investment Within the engine overhauls business, turnover and hedges are recognised in equity together with the gains and associated profit are recognised on a percentage completion losses on the underlying net investment.
The ineffective portion basis once the terms of the contract have been agreed with the of such gains and losses is recognised in the income statement customer and the ultimate profitability of the contract can be immediately.
Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial In our pilot training business, turnover is recognised evenly instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are over the duration of each course.
recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Research and Development Expenditure Financial Instruments Research expenditure is charged against income in the year in Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the which it is incurred.
An internally-generated intangible asset Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the arising from the Groups development expenditure is recognised contractual provisions of the instrument.
only if the asset can be separately identified, it is probable that the asset will generate future economic benefits and the Trade receivables development costs of the asset can be measured reliably.
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for Post-Retirement Benefits estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Financial liabilities and equity For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with according to the substance of the contractual arrangements actuarial valuations being carried out annually on 31 December.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all which they occur.
They are recognised outside profit or loss and of its liabilities.
presented in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that Bank borrowings the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis to the sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit profit and loss account using the effective interest method and obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service costs, and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Retirement benefit scheme contribution levels are determined Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell by valuations undertaken by independent qualified actuaries.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future certain overseas subsidiaries, to comply with local legislation cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax and to obtain taxation advantages, provision is made for the total discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the actuarial liability less the current surrender value of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which supporting investment.
the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit Property, Plant and Equipment is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying Property, plant and equipment is stated in the balance sheet at amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its cost.
Depreciation is provided on the cost or valuation of recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised property, plant and equipment less estimated residual value and immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued is calculated on a straight line basis over the following estimated amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a useful lives of the assets: revaluation decrease.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying Land not depreciated amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the Buildings 40 years maximum revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the Plant and machinery including increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount essential commissioning costs 3-18 years that would not have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior Tooling, vehicles, computer and office equipment are years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income categorised within plant and machinery.
immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is Finance costs which are directly attributable to the construction treated as a revaluation increase.
of major items of property, plant and equipment are capitalised as part of those assets.
The commencement of capitalisation Intangible Assets begins when both finance costs and expenditures for the asset Licenses are shown at amortised cost.
Amortisation provided on are being incurred and activities that are necessary to get the the cost of licenses is calculated on a straight line basis over the asset ready for use are in progress.
Capitalisation ceases when useful life of the licenses.
substantially all the activities that are necessary to get the asset Where computer software is not an integral part of a related ready for use are complete.
item of computer hardware, the software is treated as an intangible asset.
Computer software is capitalised on the basis of the costs Impairment of Tangible and Intangible Assets incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying value Amortisation is provided on the cost of software and is calculated of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there on a straight line basis over the useful life of the software.
is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment The Group makes an assessment of the fair value of loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the intangible assets arising on acquisitions.
An intangible asset will asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the be recognised as long as the asset is separable or arises from impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows contractual or other legal rights, and its fair value can be that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the measured reliably.
Amortisation is provided on the fair value recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the of the asset and is calculated on a straight line basis over its asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite life is tested useful life.
for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
No provision is made for temporary differences on unremitted Share-Based Payments earnings of foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates The Group operates a number of cash and equity-settled sharewhere the Group has control and the reversal of the temporary based compensation plans.
The fair value of the compensation is difference is not foreseeable.
recognised in the income statement as an expense.
The total The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no reference to the fair value of the options granted and calculated longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to using the Black-Scholes valuation model.
For cash-settled allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
options, the fair value of the option is revisited at each balance Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected sheet date.
For both cash and equity-settled options, the Group to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income to become exercisable at each balance sheet date.
statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Leases Where assets are financed by lease agreements that give rights Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of similar to ownership finance leases, the assets are treated as Estimation Uncertainty if they had been purchased and the leasing commitments are The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key shown as obligations to the lessors.
The capitalisation values sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that of the assets are written off on a straight line basis over the have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the shorter of the periods of the leases or the useful lives of the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next assets concerned.
The capital elements of future leases are financial year, are discussed below.
The judgements used by recorded as liabilities, while the interest elements are charged management in the application of the Groups accounting to the income statement over the period of the leases to produce policies in respect of these key areas of estimation are a constant rate of charge on the balance of capital payments considered to be the most significant.
For all other leases operating leases the rental payments Impairment of goodwill and tangible fixed assets are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis Determining whether goodwill or tangible fixed assets are over the lives of the leases.
impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill has been allocated Inventory or the individual assets.
The value in use calculation requires Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
the entity to estimate future cash flows expected to arise from Cost comprises the cost of raw materials and an appropriate the cash-generating unit or asset and a suitable discount rate proportion of labour and overheads in the case of work in in order to calculate present value.
The carrying amount of progress and finished goods.
Provision is made for slow moving goodwill and tangible fixed assets at the balance sheet date was or obsolete inventory as appropriate.
Details regarding the goodwill and tangible fixed asset carrying value and Taxation assumptions used in carrying out the impairment reviews are The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and provided in notes 10 and 11. takes into account taxation deferred due to temporary differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation Pensions and other post-retirement benefits and accounting purposes.
Determining the present value of future obligations of pension Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable and other post-retirement benefit schemes requires an on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and estimation of future mortality rates, future changes in employee liabilities in the financial statement and the corresponding tax benefits and length of service.
These assumptions are bases in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for determined in association with qualified actuaries.
The net using the balance sheet liability method.
pension liability related to defined benefit type schemes at the balance sheet date was 64.6 million.
Details regarding the carrying value and assumptions used in arriving at the carrying value are provided in note 21.
