95. translation of the opening net assets and results of overseas Basis of Accounting operations and on foreign currency borrowings or other currency The financial statements have been prepared using the historical instruments, to the extent that they hedge the Groups cost convention adjusted for the revaluation of certain fixed investment in such operations, are dealt with through reserves.
assets and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law Compliance with FRS 25 and 26 would require recognition of the and accounting standards.
fair value of foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swaps The principal accounting policies are set out below.
They have on the balance sheet as at 31 December 2004. all been applied consistently throughout the year and preceding For the year ended 31 December 2005, derivative financial year with the exception of FRS 20 Share based payments: instruments have been accounted for and presented under FRS FRS 21 Events after balance date: FRS 25 Financial 26 Revised Financial Instruments Financial Instruments instruments disclosure and presentation and FRS 26 Disclosure and Presentation.
This initial application has been Financial instruments measurement which have been adopted treated as a change in accounting policy and made in accordance for the first time this year.
The comparative period has been with the transitional provisions of FRS 26.
The main impact of restated where applicable in respect of each of these standards.
this change in accounting policy is to recognise the fair value of FRS 20 Share Based Payments requires the recognition of a foreign exchange contracts, interest rate swaps and commodity charge in the income statement for share-based payments based contracts on the balance sheet with effect from the transitional on the fair value of the award as at the date of grant.
The Company date of 1 January 2005.
The effect of this change has been to has recognised a charge in the income statement for the fair reduce net assets by 0.5 million at 31 December 2005. value of outstanding share options granted to employees after Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group 7 November 2002, resulting in an adjustment to retained profit comprise interest rates swaps, cross currency or basis swaps of 4.3 million 2004: 3.0 million and a reduction in the profit and foreign exchange contracts.
All such instruments are used and loss reserve of 8.5 million 4.2 million.
for hedging purposes to manage the risk profile of an underlying FRS 21 Events After the Balance Sheet Date requires that exposure of the Group in line with the Groups risk management dividends declared after the balance sheet date should not be policies.
All derivative instruments are recorded on the balance recognised as a liability at the balance sheet date as the liability sheet at fair value.
Recognition of gains or losses on derivative does not represent a present obligation as defined by IAS 37 instruments depends on whether the instrument is designated Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
The as a hedge and the type of exposure it is designed to hedge.
impact of this change on adoption of this standard is to increase The effective portion of gains or losses on cash flow hedges net assets at the balance sheet date by 4.5 million 2004: are deferred in equity until the impact from the hedged item 1.6 million.
is recognised in the income statement.
The ineffective portion The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained of such gains and losses is recognised in the income in FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements and has not produced a cash statement immediately.
Gains or losses on the qualifying part of net investment hedges The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained are recognised in equity together with the gains and losses on the in FRS 8 Related Party Transactions and has not reported underlying net investment.
The ineffective portion of such gains transactions with fellow Group undertakings.
and losses is recognised in the income statement immediately.
Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial Investments instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are Investments in subsidiary and associated undertakings are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
stated at cost less provision for impairment.
Pensions and Other Post-Retirement Benefits Treasury The Company provides pension arrangements to the majority Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling of full-time employees through the Companys defined benefit at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
It is not possible to identify the share of underlying assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the assets and liabilities in this scheme which is attributable to the balance sheet date are recorded at the rates of exchange company on a consistent and reasonable basis.
Therefore the prevailing at that date.
Any gain or loss arising from a change Company has applied the provisions in FRS17 to account for the in exchange rates subsequent to the date of transaction is scheme as if it was a defined contribution scheme.
recognised in the income statement.
The costs of pension plans and other post-retirement In accordance with the transitional provisions of FRS 25, benefits are charged to the profit and loss account so as to derivative financial instruments have been accounted for and spread the costs over employees working lives within the presented on a UK GAAP basis for the year ended 31 December Company.
The contribution levels are determined by valuations 2004.
In accordance with UK GAAP in effect at the time, gains or undertaken by independent qualified actuaries.
losses on cash flow hedges have been recognised in the income statement when realised.
Exchange differences arising on Accounting Policies 96.
BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Share-Based Payments Leases The Group operates a number of cash and equity-settled Where assets are financed by lease agreements that give rights share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the similar to ownership finance leases, the assets are treated as compensation is recognised in the income statement as an if they had been purchased and the leasing commitments are expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting shown as obligations to the lessors.
The capitalisation values period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options of the assets are written off on a straight line basis over the granted and calculated using the Black-Scholes valuation shorter of the periods of the leases or the useful lives of the model.
For cash-settled options, the fair value of the option assets concerned.
The capital elements of future lease is revisited at each balance sheet date.
For both cash and obligations are recorded as liabilities, while the interest equity-settled options, the Group revises its estimates of the elements are charged to the profit and loss account over the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
period of the leases to produce a constant rate of charge on the balance of capital payments outstanding.
Tangible Fixed Assets For all other leases operating leases the rental payments Plant and machinery, with the exception of tooling and motor are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line vehicles, was professionally valued at 31 December 1988 on an basis over the lives of the leases.
Additions after that date are stated in the balance sheet at cost.
Land and buildings are stated at cost or Taxation valuation performed in 1988.
Other tangible fixed assets are The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and stated in the balance sheet at cost.
Depreciation is provided on takes into account taxation deferred due to timing differences the cost or valuation of tangible fixed assets less estimated between the treatment of certain items for taxation and residual value and is calculated on a straight line basis over accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is provided in full on all the following estimated useful lives of the assets: liabilities.
In accordance with FRS 19, deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is regarded that it is more likely than Land not depreciated not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities Buildings 40 years maximum have not been discounted.
Plant and machinery including Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising essential commissioning costs 3-18 years from the sale or revaluation of fixed assets unless, at the balance sheet date, a binding commitment to sell the asset has Tooling, vehicles, computer and office equipment are been entered into and it is unlikely that any gain will qualify for categorised within Plant and Machinery in note 3 of the rollover relief.
The revaluation reserve consists of the surpluses on the revaluation of land and buildings to their market value for existing use and on the revaluation of plant and machinery to net current replacement cost.
