96 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Shareholders information Financial calendar Share dealing service Annual general meeting 2 March 2006 A share dealing service is available to existing shareholders Payment of 2005 final dividend 8 March 2006 to buy or sell the companys shares via Capita Share Announcement of 2006 interim results June 2006 Dealing Services.
Online and telephone dealing facilities Payment of 2006 interim dividend July 2006 provide an easy to access and simple to use service.
Announcement of 2006 final results December 2006 For further information on this service, or to buy or sell shares, please contact: Share price www.
com online dealing During the year ended 30 September 2005, the range of 0870 458 4577 telephone dealing mid market prices of the companys ordinary shares were: Please note that the directors of the company are not Price at 30 September 2005 456.0p seeking to encourage shareholders to either buy or sell Lowest price during the year 318.4p their shares.
Shareholders in any doubt as to what action Highest price during the year 457.0p to take are recommended to seek financial advice from Daily information on the companys share price can be an independent financial adviser authorised by the obtained on our website or by telephoning: Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
The Financial Times Cityline Service on 09068 432 750.
Secretary and registered office Capital gains tax Marie Glanville The market value of the companys shares for capital Citygate gains tax purposes at 31 March 1982 was 6.08p.
St James Boulevard Website Newcastle upon Tyne Website address www.
co. uk NE1 4JE Shareholders enquiries Company registration number 125575 All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings for example, notification of change of address, loss of share certificates, dividend payments should be addressed to the companys registrar at: Capita IRG plc, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent 97 Advisers Solicitors Auditors Dickinson Dees,  LLP, St Anns Wharf, 112 Quayside, 89 Sandyford Road, Newcastle upon Tyne Newcastle upon Tyne Stockbrokers Freshfields, Bruckhaus Deringer, Cazenove & Company Ltd, 65 Fleet Street, London 20 Moorgate, London Hammonds, Brewin Dolphin Securities, 2 Park Lane, Leeds Commercial Union House, 39 Pilgrim Street, Newcastle upon Tyne Financial public relations Baron Philips Associates, Registrars and transfer office 131 Finsbury Pavement, London Capita IRG plc, NP Public Relations and Marketing, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, 8 Mosley Street, Newcastle upon Tyne Beckenham, Kent Bankers Clearing Bank and Facility Agent Barclays Bank PLC Other Bankers Lloyds TSB Bank plc The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Allied Irish Banks plc Bradford & Bingley plc The Governor and Company of the Bank of Scotland National Australia Bank Limited Nationwide Building Society 98 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Glossary of terms Property Assured periodic tenancy APT Market-rented tenancy arising from succession from regulated.
Tenant has security of tenure.
Assured shorthold tenancy AST Market-rented tenancy where landlord may obtain possession if appropriate notice served.
Assured tenancy AT Market-rented tenancy where tenant has right to renew.
Investment value IV Open market value of a property subject to relevant tenancies in place.
Home reversion Rent free tenancy where tenant has right of occupation until possession is forfeited usually on death.
If tenant retains an equity interest in the property this is a partial home reversion.
Regulated tenancy Tenancy regulated under 1977 Rent Act, rent usually sub market set by rent officer and tenant has security of tenure.
Tenanted Residential TR Activity covering the acquisition, renting out and subsequent sale usually on vacancy of residential units subject to a tenancy agreement.
Vacant possession value VP Open market value of a property free from any tenancies.
Corporate Grainger NAV NNNAV adjusted for the after tax value of the reversionary surplus in our regulated and equity release portfolios discounted back to present value using our risk adjusted weighted average cost of capital over the expected average period of realisation.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
These are mandatory for UK listed companies for accounting periods ending on or after 31 December 2005.
They will impact on Graingers financial statements in the year ending 30 September 2006.
99 Financial Cap Financial instrument which, in return for a fee, guarantees an upper limit for the interest rate on a loan.
Contingent tax The amount of tax that would be payable should assets be sold at the market value shown in the accounts.
Dividend cover Earnings per share divided by dividends per share.
Earnings per share EPS Profit attributable to shareholders divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue in the year.
FRS13 Accounting standard requiring the disclosure of the market value of long-term debt and financial instruments.
FRS19 Accounting standard prohibiting the provision of deferred tax on stock revaluation surpluses when companies are acquired.
Gearing The ratio of borrowings net of cash to net asset value.
Hedging The use of financial instruments to protect against interest rate movements.
Interest cover Profit on ordinary activities before interest and tax divided by net interest payable.
Loan to value LTV Ratio of net debt to the market value of properties.
Negative goodwill On acquisition of a company, the surplus of the value of the statutory net assets acquired over the purchase price paid.
Net asset value NAV Shareholders funds adjusted for the market value of property assets held as stock.
Net net asset value triple net or NNNAV NAV adjusted for contingent tax liabilities which would accrue if assets sold at market value and for the market value of long-term debt and derivatives.
Swap Financial instrument to protect against interest rate movements.
Total Shareholder Return TSR Return attributable to shareholders on basis of share price growth with dividends reinvested.
Weighted average cost of capital WACC The weighted average cost of funding the groups activities through a combination of shareholders funds and debt.
100 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Corporate addresses Newcastle Ipswich Citygate 42a Barrach Square St James Boulevard Martlesham Heath Newcastle upon Tyne Ipswich NE1 4JE Suffolk Tel: 0191 261 1819 IP5 3RF London Putney 161 Brompton Road 1st Floor London SW15H Building SW3 1QP 73-75 Upper Richmond Road Tel: 020 7795 4700 London SW15 2SR Birmingham The Circle Manchester Harborne St Johns House Birmingham Barrington Road B17 9DY Altrincham Cheshire www.
co. uk WA14 1TJ This report has been produced on paper from a sustainable source by an environmentally accredited printing company.
This report has been printed by Empress Litho Ltd who are accredited with the ISO 14001 environmental management system.
Produced entirely using vegetable based inks which contain environmentally friendly, replenishable vegetable oils.
On average 87% of all waste associated with the production of this report is recycled.
The paper is made from at least 40% recovered fibre and 60% virgin fibre from plantation and sustainable forests.
This report is recyclable and bio-degradable.
Designed and produced by corporateedge.
