62 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Independent auditors report to the members of Grainger Trust plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise We read the other information contained in the annual the statement of accounting policies, the consolidated report and consider the implications for our report if we profit and loss account, the statement of group total become aware of any apparent misstatements or material recognised gains and losses, note of group historical cost inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other profits and losses, balance sheets, the consolidated cash information comprises all sections up to and including the flow statement, and the related notes.
We have also chairmans statement, the chief executives statement, the audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A operating and financial review, the corporate governance to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the remuneration report, the directors report, the corporate social committee report the auditable part.
responsibility report and the unaudited part of the remuneration committee report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual We review whether the corporate governance statement report and the financial statements in accordance with reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and The directors are also responsible for preparing the we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider remuneration committee report.
whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and effectiveness of the companys or groups corporate the auditable part of the remuneration committee report in governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the The maintenance and integrity of the Grainger Trust plc Auditing Practices board.
This report, including the opinion, website is the responsibility of the directors: the work has been prepared for and only for the companys carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility the financial statements since they were initially presented for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this on the website.
report is shown or into whose hands it may come save Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial legislation in other jurisdictions.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the Basis of audit opinion financial statements and the auditable part of the We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing remuneration committee report have been properly standards issued by the Auditing Practices board.
An audit prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and report is not consistent with the financial statements, the auditable part of the remuneration committee report.
It if the company has not kept proper accounting records, also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and if we have not received all the information and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the explanations we require for our audit, or if information financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies specified by law regarding directors remuneration and are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently transactions is not disclosed.
63 We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the remuneration committee report are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the auditable part of the remuneration committee report.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group at 30 September 2005 and of the profit and cash flows of the group for the year then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and those parts of the remuneration committee report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
 LLP Chartered accountants and registered auditors Newcastle upon Tyne 20 December 2005 64 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Statement of accounting policies A summary of the principal accounting policies is set out Joint ventures below.
The policies have been applied consistently in all In compliance with FRS9, the group accounts for joint material respects throughout the current and the previous year.
ventures under the gross equity method.
Under this method, the groups share of the Joint Ventures turnover Accounting convention and profits and losses are separately disclosed in the groups The group prepares its annual financial statements on profit and loss account.
The groups share of the gross the historical cost basis of accounting, as modified by the assets and gross liabilities, together with goodwill, is shown revaluation of investment properties and in accordance on the face of the balance sheet.
The groups statement of with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable UK total recognised gains and losses includes its share of the accounting standards.
Joint Ventures total recognised gains and losses.
Basis of consolidation Repairs and improvements The group financial statements comprise the consolidated Repairs are charged in the year they are incurred.
financial statements of the company and its subsidiaries.
The financial statements of subsidiary companies are made up to 30 September.
Pensions Contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired are included the profit and loss account in the year to which they relate.
in the consolidated profit and loss account up to, or from, the date control passes.
Intra-group sales and profits The Bromley Property Holdings Limited group currently are eliminated fully on consolidation.
On acquisition of contributes to a defined benefits scheme, which was closed a subsidiary, all of the subsidiarys assets and liabilities to new members and employee contributions in 2003. that exist at the date of acquisition are recorded at their Funding requirements are assessed with the advice of an provisional fair values reflecting their condition at that date.
Actuarial valuations are carried out every three years.
The group will continue to Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the difference contribute so as to spread the cost over the expected between the fair value of the consideration paid and the remaining life of the relevant employees.
The transitional fair value of the identifiable assets acquired.
Goodwill disclosure requirements of FRSI7, Retirement Benefits, arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries prior to are given in note 27 to the financial statements.
30 September 1998 was eliminated or credited immediately against reserves and will be transferred to the profit and Tangible fixed assets loss account on subsequent disposal of the business to The cost of fixed assets is their purchase cost, together which it relates.
Goodwill arising subsequent to that date with any incremental costs of acquisition.
is shown in the balance sheet under fixed assets.
Positive In accordance with SSAP 19, i investment properties are goodwill is amortised through the profit and loss account revalued annually and the aggregate surplus or temporary over its estimated useful economic life.
Negative goodwill deficit is transferred to a revaluation reserve, and ii no is amortised through the profit and loss account over the depreciation or amortisation is provided in respect of freehold period in which the non-monetary assets are realised either investment properties and leasehold investment properties through depreciation or sale.
Permanent diminutions in value Turnover below cost are charged in the profit and loss account.
The Turnover comprises gross sale proceeds of trading requirement of the Companies Act 1985 is to depreciate all properties and developments, gross rentals, commissions properties, but that requirement conflicts with the generally and sundry other income, and is exclusive of VAT.
Sales accepted accounting principle set out in SSAP 19.
The of land and properties are only recognised when the cash directors consider that to depreciate such properties would proceeds are received in full or the group has entered not give a true and fair view, as the properties are not held for into a legally binding undertaking.
Gross rentals and consumption but for investment, and that a true and fair view commissions are recognised as they fall due.
is given by following SSAP 19 as described above.
The effect 65 of depreciation and amortisation on value is already reflected For an interest rate swap to be treated as a hedge the annually in the valuation of properties, and the amount instrument must be related to actual assets or liabilities attributed to this factor by the valuers cannot reasonably be or a probable commitment and must change the nature separately identified or quantified.
Had the provisions of the of the interest rate by converting a fixed rate to a variable Act been followed, net assets would not have been affected rate or vice versa.
Interest differentials under these swaps but profits would have been reduced for this and earlier years.
are recognised by adjusting net interest payable over the periods of the contracts.
Investment properties are revalued every year by our inhouse Chartered Surveyors and the valuations are reviewed If an instrument ceases to be accounted for as a hedge, and approved by the directors.
The basis of valuation is for example because the underlying hedged position is explained in note 10 to the financial statements.
eliminated, the instrument is marked to market and any resulting profit or loss recognised at that time.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of tangible fixed assets excluding investment properties, less Deferred taxation their estimated residual values, over the expected useful Deferred tax is measured at the rate expected to apply in economic lives of the assets concerned.
The principal the periods in which the timing differences are expected annual rates used for this purpose are: to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is % Method measured on a non-discounted basis.
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 20 Straight line A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all evidence Investments available, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there Investments in subsidiaries and other investments are will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal included in the financial statements at cost less provisions of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
for permanent diminution of value.
Deferred taxation is not recognised when fixed assets are Stocks revalued unless by the balance sheet date there is a binding Tenanted residential properties are shown in the financial agreement to sell the revalued assets and the gain or loss statements at the lower of cost to the group and net expected to arise on the sale has been recognised in the realisable value.
Cost to the group includes legal and financial statements.
surveying charges incurred during acquisition together with improvement costs.
Net realisable value is the net Share schemes sale proceeds which the group expects on sale of a The group operates a long-term incentive plan and a deferred property with vacant possession.
In accordance with UITF17 Employee share schemes, the costs are expensed on a straight-line basis over Development and trading properties are shown in the the period in which performance is measured.
The amount to financial statements at the lower of cost to the group be expensed is based upon an estimate of the probability that and net realisable value.
Cost represents the acquisition the performance criteria will be met.
Shares in the company price together with subsequent development costs net of are held by The Grainger Trust Employee Trustee Company amounts transferred to cost of sales.
Net realisable value Limited to meet the groups obligations under these schemes.
is the current market value which the group expects to The assets, income and costs of this trustee company are receive on sale net of associated selling costs.
included in these financial statements.
Derivative financial instruments Loan issue costs The group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce Costs incurred in raising loan finance are capitalised and exposure to interest rate movements.
The group does set off against the outstanding debt in the balance sheet.
not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for The costs are charged to profit and loss account on a speculative purposes.
straight line basis over the term of the facility.
66 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Consolidated profit and loss account 2005 2004 For the year ended 30 September 2005 notes m m Turnover including share of joint ventures 1 226.9 217.4 Less: share of turnover of joint ventures and associates 0.6 Group turnover 226.3 217.4 Gross rentals 45.5 41.0 Trading profits 74.8 72.6 Other income 2.9 9.8 123.2 123.4 Less: Property expenses 24.3 22.7 Administrative expenses 9.4 7.5 Operating profit group and share of joint ventures and associates 89.5 93.2 Net profit on disposal of and provisions against fixed assets Group 2 2.1 6.5 Profit on ordinary activities before interest 91.6 99.7 Net interest payable and similar charges Group normal 49.1 40.1 Group exceptional 3, 4 5.4 Joint venture 3 0.4 3 49.5 45.5 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 1, 5 42.1 54.2 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 7 15.6 21.2 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 26.5 33.0 Dividends 8 6.6 5.7 Retained profit for the year 21 19.9 27.3 Basic earnings per share 9 21.2p 26.8p Diluted earnings per share 9 20.9p 26.7p Basic earnings per share before exceptional item 9 21.2p 29.9p All results relate to continuing operations.
67 Statement of group total recognised gains and losses 2005 2004 For the year ended 30 September 2005 notes m m Profit on ordinary activities attributable to shareholders 26.5 33.0 Taxation on realisation of property revaluation gains of previous years 7 0.4 Unrealised surplus on revaluation of properties 10, 21 5.4 4.3 Total gains and losses recognised since the last annual report 31.9 36.9 Note of group historical cost profits and losses 2005 2004 For the year ended 30 September 2005 notes m m Reported profit on ordinary activities before taxation 42.1 54.2 Realisation of property revaluation gains of previous years 21 1.6 5.1 Historical cost profit on ordinary activities before taxation 43.7 59.3 Taxation 15.6 21.6 Dividends 6.6 5.7 Retained historical cost profit for the year 21.5 32.0
