Notes to the financial statements continued Minerva plc 42 Annual report and accounts 2005 1.
Accounting policies continued Depreciation and amortisation The cost of other fixed assets is their purchase cost, together with any incidental expenses of acquisition.
The cost of leasehold improvements is depreciated over the remaining life of the lease.
Motor vehicles and fixtures and fittings are depreciated over their expected lives of between three and five years.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is provided in respect of all timing differences that have originated, but not reversed, at the balance sheet date that may give rise to an obligation to pay more or less tax in future.
A deferred tax asset is recognised when its recoverability is considered to be reasonably certain.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates which apply at the balance sheet date.
No provision is made for tax liabilities on unrealised revaluation gains at the balance sheet date.
Operating leases Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account over the lease term on a straight-line basis.
Pension costs Employer contributions to personal pension schemes of employees are charged to the profit and loss account as they are incurred.
Financial instruments Interest payable and receivable is accounted for on an accruals basis.
Interest differentials on derivative instruments are recognised by adjusting the relevant interest amount.
Bank loans are included in the financial statements net of issue costs which are amortised over the life of the loan.
Significant accounting policies in respect of the Scarlett Retail Group Limited Scarlett Retail joint venture are: Turnover Turnover consists of sales of merchandise and services to third parties net of VAT, discounts and estimated returns and includes the profit contribution earned on agency sales including concession departments.
Sales are recognised at point of sale, or later delivery date as appropriate.
Tangible fixed assets Where properties are carried at valuation they are held at their current value on an existing use basis as at the balance sheet date.
Their current value is determined by having an independent qualified valuer perform a full, detailed valuation at least once every five years and an interim external valuation in year three.
In years one, two and four, a review is performed and if it indicates that it is likely that there has been a material change in value, then an interim valuation will be performed by a qualified external valuer.
Stocks Goods held for resale are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Operating leases Property lease rentals are accounted for on a straight-line basis to each rent review.
Lease incentives and rent free periods are recognised in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Pension costs Defined benefit liabilities are funded by payments to schemes controlled by independent trustees on the advice of external actuaries.
Pension costs are accounted for on the basis of charging the expected costs of providing pensions over the period during which the Company benefits from employee services.
The effects of variations from regular cost are spread over the expected average remaining service lives of members of the scheme.
Segmental information The Groups continuing operations are confined to property investment and development within the United Kingdom.
