Minerva plc 41 Annual report and accounts 2005 Notes to the financial statements 1.
Accounting policies The Groups accounting policies are as follows: Accounting convention The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the historical cost convention, as modified by the inclusion of investment properties at valuation, and in accordance with accounting standards currently applicable in the United Kingdom.
The principal accounting policies which have been applied consistently for the periods covered by these financial statements, are set out below.
Consolidation The audited financial statements of the Company and all of its subsidiary undertakings have been consolidated, with the exception that where, in the opinion of the Directors, severe long-term restrictions exist over the control of a subsidiary, that subsidiary is accounted for as a joint venture under the gross equity method of accounting prescribed by FRS 9 Associates and joint ventures.
In accordance with Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, a separate profit and loss account for the Company is not presented.
Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets acquired.
In accordance with FRS 10 Goodwill and intangible assets, goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised through the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over an appropriate period not exceeding 20 years.
Acquisitions and disposals Where subsidiary and associated undertakings are acquired or disposed of during a period, the Group profit and loss account includes their results from or to the date of acquisition or disposal.
Investment property Investment properties are included in the financial statements at valuation.
The aggregate surplus from original cost is transferred to a revaluation reserve.
Any aggregate unrealised deficit from original cost is charged to the profit and loss account.
On realisation any gain or loss is calculated by reference to the carrying value at the last balance sheet date and is included in the profit and loss account.
Any balance in the revaluation reserve is transferred to the profit and loss account reserve.
In accordance with SSAP 19 Revised Accounting for investment properties, investment properties are revalued annually.
No provision is made for depreciation or amortisation of properties held for investment purposes.
The Companies Act 1985 requires all properties to be depreciated, but that requirement conflicts with the generally accepted principle set out in SSAP 19 Revised.
The Directors consider that, as the properties are held for long-term investment, a true and fair view is given following SSAP 19 Revised.
Depreciation is only one of the many factors reflected in the annual valuation of properties and the amount of depreciation or amortisation which might otherwise have been charged cannot be separately identified or quantified in a meaningful way.
Additions to properties in the course of development or refurbishment include the cost of finance and directly attributable internal and external costs incurred during the period of development until practical completion.
Property transactions Purchases and sales are recognised on exchange of contracts provided that, if the exchange is conditional, all material conditions have been satisfied shortly thereafter.
Fixed asset investments Fixed asset investments are included at cost.
Where the value of these investments is below cost and is considered to be a permanent diminution, the deficit is written off to the profit and loss account.
If the diminution in value is not considered to be permanent, no such write off is made.
Turnover Group turnover comprises rental income, service charge income and other amounts receivable from tenants.
Rental income is recognised after treating lease incentives that do not enhance the property as a revenue reduction and spread evenly over the period to the earlier of the first rent review or the lease term.
Refurbishment costs Refurbishment expenditure in respect of major works is capitalised.
Renovation and refurbishment expenditure of a revenue nature is written off as incurred.
