Pillar Property PLC Notice of annual general meeting Annual report and accounts 2005 50 Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Pillar Property PLC the company for 2005 will be held at the Radission Edwardian May Fair Hotel, Stratton Street, London W1 on Monday 11 July 2005 at 12 noon.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee will be in attendance.
Ordinary Business 1To receive the report of the directors and audited financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2005 together with the auditors report thereon.
2To re-elect as a director Mr H R Mould who retires by rotation and offers himself for re-election.
3To re-elect as a director Mr V T Beresford who retires by rotation and offers himself for re-election.
4To re-elect as a director Mr R A Hambro a member of the Remuneration and Audit Committees who retires by rotation and offers himself for re-election.
5To re-elect as a director Sir Derek Hornby a member of the Remuneration and Audit Committees who has retired and offers himself for re-election.
6To re-elect as a director Mr M C Stoddart a member of the Remuneration and Audit Committees who has retired and offers himself for re-election.
7To reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to hold ofce until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
8To approve the directors remuneration report.
Special Business 9To consider and, if thought t, pass the following resolution as a special resolution: THAT the company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act of ordinary shares of 10p each in the company ordinary shares, provided that: a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 9,004,887 representing approximately 10% of the existing issued ordinary share capital of the company : b the minimum price which may be paid for ordinary shares is 10p per ordinary share: c the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which such ordinary share is purchased: d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the company to be held in 2006 unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and e the company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract.
By order of the board P J Martin Secretary 22 May 2005 Notes: i A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and upon a poll vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the company.
Appointment of a proxy will not prevent a member from attending and voting at the meeting should he or she wish to do so.
ii A form of proxy is enclosed and to be effective must be lodged with the registrars not less than 48 hours before the meeting at the following address: Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
iii Particulars of the directors interests in the share capital of the company together with the directors service contracts will be available for inspection at the registered ofce of the company during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted up to and including the date of the meeting and at the place of the meeting at least 15 minutes prior to, and during the meeting.
iv The company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001, species that only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the company as at 5.30 pm on 9 July 2005 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register of securities after 9 July 2005 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
