74 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2005 Notice of Annual General Meeting For the year ended 31 March 2005 NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the thirteenth Annual General Meeting of Quintain Estates and Development PLC will be held at the ESU, Dartmouth House, 37 Charles Street, London W1X 8AB at 11.30am on 6 September 2005 to carry out the following business: Ordinary business 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report and the Audited Accounts of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2005.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2005.
To receive and adopt the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2005.
To receive and adopt the Audit Committee Report for the year ended 31 March 2005.
To elect Tom Cross Brown as a director.
To re-elect James Hamilton Stubber as a director.
To re-elect John Plender as a director.
To re-elect Nicholas Shattock as a director.
To re-elect Nigel Ellis as Chairman of the Company.
To re-elect David Pangbourne as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
To elect Martin Meech as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
To re-appoint the retiring auditors.
To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
Special business To consider and if thought fit, pass the following resolutions 15, 16 and 17 as Special Resolutions and 14, 18 and 19 as Ordinary Resolutions.
THAT the section 80 period as defined in Article 11 d ii of the Articles of Association of the Company shall be the period expiring 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution and that for such period the section 80 amount shall be 10,765,895 being one third of the nominal value of the issued share capital as at 31 March 2005 and that all previous authorities under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 shall henceforth cease to have effect.
THAT the section 89 period defined in Article 11 d iii of the Articles of Association of the Company shall be the period expiring 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution, and that for such period the section 89 amount as defined in Article 11 d v shall be 1,614,884, being 5% of the issued share capital.
THAT the Company be and is generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the Act of its own shares herein referred to as ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner as the directors may from time to time determine provided that: i the maximum number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased is 12,919,074 being 10% of the shares in issue as at 31 March 2005: and ii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is 25 pence exclusive of expenses payable by the Company : and iii the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary shares are purchased exclusive of expenses payable by the Company : and iv the authority conferred shall expire either at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2006 or, if earlier, at midnight on the date falling 15 months after the passing of this resolution except that the Company may before such expiry make a contract to purchase its own shares which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
75 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2005 17.
THAT: The Articles of Association of the Company be and are hereby amended by the deletion of the existing Article 175 of the Articles of Association and its replacement by the following: 175 Indemnity 175.1 Subject to the Statutes and without prejudice to any indemnity to which he may otherwise be entitled, every director, secretary, manager or other officer of the Company shall be entitled to be indemnified by the Company and, in the case of a Director, to be indemnified by an associated company of the Company as defined in Section 309A of the Act, against all costs, charges, losses, expenses and liabilities incurred by him in the execution and discharge of his duties or the exercise of his powers, authorities and discretions, including any liability incurred by him in defending any proceedings, civil or criminal, which relate to anything done or omitted or alleged to have been done or omitted by him as an officer or employee of the Company and in which judgment is given in his favour or the proceedings are otherwise disposed of without any finding or admission of any material breach of duty on his part or in which he is acquitted or in connection with any application in which relief is granted to him by the court from liability in respect of negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust, in relation to the affairs of the Company.
175.2 No Director or other officer of the Company shall be liable for any loss, damage or misfortune which may happen to or be incurred by the Company in the execution of the duties of their office in relation thereto, provided that this Article shall only have effect insofar as its provisions are not avoided by section 309A, 309B, 309C or 310 of the Act.
175.3 Subject to the Statutes, the Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to purchase and maintain insurance for the benefit of a person who is an officer or employee, or former officer or former employee, of the Company or a Subsidiary Undertaking or in which the Company has an interest, direct or indirect, or a company or body which is in any way allied to or associated with the Company and, in the case of a director, a director of an associated company of the Company as defined in Section 309A of the Act or a person who is or was a trustee of a retirement benefits scheme or another trust in which an officer or employee or former officer or former employee is or has been interested indemnifying him against any liability for negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust or any other liability which may lawfully be insured against by the Company.
175.4 Subject to the Statutes, the Board may exercise all powers of the Company to provide a Director with funds to meet expenditure incurred or to be incurred by him for the purposes of the Company or for the purposes of enabling him to properly perform his duties as an officer of the Company or for the purposes of him in defending any criminal or civil proceedings or applying for relief under section 144 or 727 of the Act provided that such funds shall be repaid in the event that the Director is convicted or judgement is given against him or relief is refused on the date such conviction or judgement against or refusal of relief becomes final.
THAT: a the Quintain Estates and Development PLC 2005 Company Share Option Plan the CSOP, in the form of the draft rules submitted to the Meeting and signed by the Chairman for the purpose of identification, be and is hereby approved: b the Directors be and they are hereby authorised: i to adopt the CSOP: ii to seek the written approval of the Board of Inland Revenue under Schedule 4 to the Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003 the CSOP Approval and, in their absolute discretion to amend, waive or replace such of the rules of the CSOP or introduce such new rules as may be necessary for the CSOP to obtain and maintain the CSOP Approval: iii to do all other acts and things necessary to carry the CSOP into effect: and iv to vote as directors on any matter connected with the CSOP notwithstanding they may be interested in the same except that no Director shall vote on any resolution concerning his own participation in the CSOP or be counted in the quorum required for the consideration of any such resolution, and c the Directors be and they are hereby authorised: i to establish further schemes based on the CSOP but modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws in overseas territories.
Any shares made available under such further schemes will be treated as counting against any limits on individual or overall participation in the CSOP: ii to do all other acts and things necessary to carry such further schemes into effect: and iii to vote as directors on any matter connected with such further schemes notwithstanding they may be interested in the same except that no Director shall vote on any resolution concerning his own participation in the relevant scheme or be counted in the quorum required for the consideration of any such resolution.
76 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2005 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued For the year ended 31 March 2005 19.
THAT: a the Quintain Estates and Development PLC 2005 Savings-Related Share Option Plan the Sharesave Plan, in the form of the draft rules submitted to the Meeting and signed by the Chairman for the purpose of identification, be and is hereby approved: b the Directors be and they are hereby authorised: i to adopt the Sharesave Plan: ii to seek the written approval of the Board of Inland Revenue under Schedule 3 to the Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003 the Sharesave Approval and, in their absolute discretion to amend, waive or replace such of the rules of the Sharesave Plan or introduce such new rules as may be necessary for the Sharesave Plan to obtain and maintain the Sharesave Approval: iii to do all other acts and things necessary to carry the Sharesave Plan into effect: and iv to vote as directors on any matter connected with the Sharesave Plan notwithstanding they may be interested in the same except that no Director shall vote on any resolution concerning his own participation in the Sharesave Plan or be counted in the quorum required for the consideration of any such resolution.
By Order of the Board Sue Dixon Company Secretary 22 July 2005 Registered Office: 16 Grosvenor Street London W1K 4QF Notes 1 A member entitled to attend and vote may appoint one or more proxies to attend and poll one vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is attached.
Completion and return of a proxy does not preclude a member from attending and voting at the meeting in person.
2 To be effective, proxy forms and any power of attorney or other kind of authority under which it is signed, or an appropriately certified copy of such authority, must be delivered to the Companys Registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, Registrars Department, PO Box 1075, Bristol BS99 3FA so as to be received no later than 11.30am on 4 September 2005.
3 The Company persuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 specifies that only those shareholders registered on the Register of Members of the Company as at 11.30am on 4 September 2005 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the aforesaid General Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the Register of Members after 11.30am on 4 September 2005 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
4 If you would like to submit your proxy via the internet, you can do so by accessing Computershares website at www.
You will require your unique PIN and Shareholder Reference Number SRN printed on your proxy card to log in the PIN will expire 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting.
You can access this site from any internet enabled PC.
5 To appoint one or more proxies or to give an instruction to a proxy whether previously appointed or otherwise via the CREST system, CREST messages must be received by the issuers agent ID number 3RA50 not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp generated by the CREST system from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
The Company may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
