BELLWAY p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 49 Accounting Policies The significant accounting policies adopted and consistently applied in the preparation of the accounts are shown below: a Basis of accounting The accounts are prepared on the historical cost basis and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
Where relevant, the requirements of all new accounting standards and pronouncements, whose implementation dates were during the year, have been adopted.
b Consolidation The Group accounts include the accounts of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings, which are made up to 31 July.
Unless otherwise stated, the acquisition method of accounting has been adopted.
An associate is an undertaking in which the Group has a long-term interest, usually for 20-50% of the equity voting rights and over which it exercises a significant influence.
Associated undertakings are stated in the Group balance sheet at the Group's share of their net assets as shown by their latest accounts.
The results attributable to the Group's holding in associated undertakings are shown separately in the Group profit and loss account.
The treatment of goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings has been outlined in note 18.
Where a group company is party to a joint arrangement which is not an entity, that company accounts directly for its part of the income and expenditure, assets, liabilities and cashflows.
Such arrangements are reported in the consolidated accounts on the same basis.
c Turnover and profit Turnover represents the invoiced value of sales and rental income, excluding value added tax and transactions between members of the Group.
Turnover and profit on sales of properties are brought into account when the sales have been legally completed.
Sales of part exchange properties are not included in turnover but the net result of these transactions is classified as a cost of sale.
d Stocks Work in progress and stocks are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value, less payments on account and related grants.
The cost of housebuilding work in progress includes site overheads.
Properties taken in part exchange are stated at the lower of acquisition cost and estimated net realisable value.
e Depreciation Freehold land is not depreciated.
Buildings held as fixed assets are being written off by equal annual instalments over 40 years.
Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis for vehicles, plant and equipment at rates which are calculated to write off the cost of those assets over their useful lives, which are estimated at between three and ten years.
f Foreign currencies The accounts of the overseas subsidiary undertaking are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the balance sheet and the resultant gains or losses are dealt with through reserves.
g Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred or accelerated because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred taxation is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS19.
h Pension costs The defined benefit section of the pension scheme is a funded scheme and its costs are charged to the profit and loss account on a basis which spreads the cost of providing pensions over employees' estimated average working lives with the Group.
Defined contribution pension costs are charged to the profit and loss account in the period for which contributions are payable.
i Financial assets and liabilities Changes in the values of financial instruments are disclosed in the notes to the accounts but are not reflected in the profit and loss account, the statement of total recognised gains and losses or the balance sheet.
BELLWAY p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 50 Accounting Policies continued j Grants Grants are included within work in progress and stocks in the balance sheet and are credited to the profit and loss account over the life of the developments to which they relate.
k Operating leases Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
l Employee share schemes The Group operates various long-term incentive schemes as outlined in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration on pages 36 and 37 and in note 16 on pages 63 and 64.
Share options are also granted to employees of the Group by trustees of the employee share ownership schemes as described in note 18.
Shares are held within these schemes in order to meet obligations, once options are exercised.
A charge is recognised in the profit and loss account of the Group based on the fair value of the shares at the date of the award.
The employee share ownership schemes also hold shares to meet anticipated future obligations for the deferred element of the annual bonus scheme for executive directors.
The details of this are outlined in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration on pages 35 and 36.
Ordinary shares in Bellway p. l. c. held in the employee share ownership plans are recorded as a deduction from shareholders' funds.
