Proxy Card Proxy Card for use at the Annual General Meeting of Bellway p. l. c. to be held at 12.00 noon on Friday 13 January 2006.
Please indicate, by inserting a cross in the appropriate square, how you wish your votes to be cast on the Resolutions listed.
Unless so instructed and on any other Resolutions proposed at the meeting, your proxy will vote or abstain at his her discretion.
This proxy will be used only in the event of a poll being directed or demanded.
Annual General Meeting Resolutions Full details of the resolutions are set out in the Notice of Meeting accompanying the Report and Accounts For Against 1.
To receive and adopt the Accounts for the financial year ended 31 July 2005 and the Directors Report and the Auditors Report thereon.
2 To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 July 2005.
3 To re-elect Mr P J Stoker as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr L P Finn as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr D G Perry as a director of the Company.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as the auditors of the Company.
To authorise the directors to agree the auditors remuneration.
To approve the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration.
To approve the proposed new Articles of Association of the Company.
To exclude the application of pre-emption rights to the allotment of equity securities.
To authorise market purchases of the Companys own ordinary shares and preference shares.
NOTES Delete the underlined if it is desired to appoint any other person, who need not be a member of the Company but who must attend the meeting in person to represent you, and insert his her full name and address.
i This form of proxy has been sent to you by post.
It may be returned by any of the following methods: In hard copy form by post, courier or by hand to the Company's registrars, Capita Registrars, Proxy Dept, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU: or, in the case of CREST members, by using the CREST electronic appointment service.
CREST members should refer to note iii to the Notice of Annual General Meeting enclosed with this form of proxy in relation to the submission of a proxy appointment via CREST.
ii To be effective this proxy must be deposited at the office of the Company's registrars detailed above not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting, together with any power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority.
iii Any alterations to this form of proxy should be initialled.
iv In the case of a joint holding, this form may be signed by any of the joint holders, but the vote of the member whose name stands first in the Register of Members will be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders.
v In the case of a corporation, the form of proxy should be validly executed on behalf of the Company under its Common Seal or under the hand of a duly authorised officer or attorney.
vi Completion and return of the proxy will not preclude members from attending and voting at the meeting.
Third fold and tuck in BUSINESS REPLY SERVICE Licence No.
MB122 1 1 Capita Registrars Proxies PO Box 25 Beckenham, Kent BR3 4BR Second fold First fold
