BELLWAY p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 70 Shareholder Information Summary of the Principal Proposed Changes of Substance to the Articles of Association of the Company Notices The Company will continue to deliver shareholder notices by post.
However, shareholders may also elect to receive shareholder notices from the Company by electronic mail.
Electronic Communication To the extent permitted by legislation: the Company may give a notice to shareholders electronically to an address notified to the Company by the shareholder: any such notice sent electronically is treated as being given 24 hours after it was sent: the Company may deliver a document to shareholders electronically by posting the document on its website and notifying the shareholder by electronic mail of its posting: and any such notification delivered electronically is treated as being delivered 48 hours after it was sent.
Non-Executive Directors Fees The total of all fees paid to non-executive directors is subject to an overall limit set in the articles.
The Company has not recently increased this limit.
However, given the recent increase in responsibilities for non-executive directors, it is proposed to increase this limit.
It is proposed that the limit be increased from 100,000 in aggregate to 500,000 in aggregate for all non-executive directors fees, providing some flexibility when determining individual fees.
Retiring Directors The Combined Code requires that all directors should be subject to election by shareholders at the first annual general meeting following their appointment and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
It is proposed that the articles be amended to allow the Company to comply with this requirement which it is already doing in accordance with the Combined Code.
Indemnity and Insurance The Companies Audit, Investigation and Community Enterprises Act 2004 widens the scope of the indemnification of directors and others permitted by a companys articles of association and inserts a new Section 337A in the Companies Act 1985 which allows a company to provide its directors with funds to cover the costs incurred by a director in defending legal proceedings brought against him or her as they are incurred.
The Company proposes to amend its articles of association to widen the scope of the indemnification of directors within the limits of the new legislation.
Previously, a company has only been able to fund a directors defence costs once final judgement in his or her favour has been reached.
Since directors are increasingly being added as defendants in actions against companies, and litigation is often lengthy and expensive, the Board believes that the risk of directors being placed under significant financial strain is increasing.
The Board therefore proposes that the articles of association be amended to take advantage of the new provisions so that the Company may fund a directors defence costs in the event that an action was brought against him or her, even if it was brought by the Company itself.
The provisions of the Companies Act referred to in the amended articles are those dealing with the acquisition of shares by innocent nominees and the general power to grant relief in the case of honest and reasonable conduct.
The proposed amendments will apply to the costs of applications under those provisions as if they were defence costs.
If the directors defence was unsuccessful, the director would still be liable to pay any damages awarded and to repay defence costs except where the proceedings had been brought by a third party and the Companys indemnity was applicable.
Other proposed changes are to ensure that directors can vote and be counted in the quorum at meetings about any of the things referred to above.
The Board believes that the wider indemnity for the directors and the power to fund the directors defence costs as they are incurred are important to ensure that the Company continues to attract and retain directors of a high calibre.
BELLWAY p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 71 Shareholder Information continued CREST The articles are proposed to be updated to reflect the introduction of the CREST Proxy Voting Service and recent CREST Regulations.
Provisions have been inserted: relating to paying dividends or other amounts payable in cash to shareholders holding shares in uncertificated form: allowing notices to be served through a relevant system where shares are held in uncertificated form: and permitting the appointment of and giving of instructions to proxies through the relevant system.
A copy of the Companys articles of association as amended to reflect the proposed changes will be available for inspection during the Annual General Meeting and for at least fifteen minutes before it and at the Companys registered office and at the offices of the Companys brokers HSBC Bank plc, 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ from the date of this document until the close of the Annual General Meeting.
Financial Calendar Announcement of results and ordinary dividends - Half year April - Full year October Ordinary share dividend payments - Interim July - Final January Preference share dividend payments at the rate of 9.5% per annum paid half yearly April and October Annual report posted to shareholders November Final dividend ex-dividend date 14 December 2005 Final dividend record date 16 December 2005 Annual General Meeting 13 January 2006 Final dividend payment date 16 January 2006 Shareholders by Size of Holding at 31 July 2005 Holdings Shares Number % Holding % 0 - 2,000 1,888 63.7 1,396,416 1.2 2,001 10,000 629 21.2 2,708,382 2.4 10,001 - 50,000 237 8.0 5,485,581 4.9 50,001 and over 210 7.1 103,638,740 91.5 Total 2,964 100.0 113,229,119 100.0 Share dealing service The Companys registrars, Capita Registrars provide a share dealing service to existing shareholders to buy or sell the Companys shares.
Online and telephone dealing facilities provide an easy to access and simple to use service.
For further information on this service, or to buy or sell shares, please contact: www.
com - online dealing 0870 458 4577 - telephone dealing Please note that the directors of the Company are not seeking to encourage shareholders to either buy or sell their shares.
Shareholders in any doubt as to what action to take are recommended to seek financial advice from an independent financial adviser authorisied by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
BELLWAY p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 72 Shareholder Information continued Discount to shareholders The following discount arrangement is currently available to shareholders.
Should you intend to purchase a new Bellway home, you will be entitled to a discount of 625 per 25,000, or pro rata on part thereof, of the purchase price provided that: a you have been the registered holder of at least 2,000 ordinary shares for a minimum period of 12 months prior to the reservation of your new home.
b you inform our sales representative on site when reserving your property that you are claiming shareholder discount.
The above discount arrangement is only available to shareholders on the Company's Register of Members.
Employees of investing companies or members of investing institutions would not therefore be eligible.
For further details please contact the Group Company Secretary, Bellway p. l. c. Seaton Burn House, Dudley Lane, Seaton Burn, Newcastle upon Tyne NE13 6BE, telephone 0191 217 0717 or email kevin.
co. uk Corporate Responsibility Report 2005 A copy of the Companys Corporate Responsibility Report 2005 is available to shareholders on the Companys website www.
co. uk or on written application to the Group Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
