50 Accounting policies The accounts and notes have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
Compliance with SSAP19 Accounting for Investment Properties requires departure from the Companies Act 1985 relating to depreciation and an explanation of the departure is given below.
Accounting convention The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified by the revaluation of investment properties and shares in subsidiary and associated companies.
Basis of consolidation The group accounts consolidate the accounts of the company and its subsidiaries.
Associated companies are consolidated using the equity accounting method and joint ventures are consolidated using the gross equity accounting method as required by FRS9.
Turnover and profit recognition Turnover represents sales of development properties, rental income receivable in accordance with UITF28, other recoveries and income from other activities.
Profit on property sales is recognised on legal completion of sale.
Tangible fixed assets Depreciation is not provided on investment properties which are subject to annual revaluations.
Other tangible fixed assets are depreciated by equal instalments over their expected useful lives at annual rates varying between 2% and 50%.
Investment in subsidiary and associated companies The investments in subsidiary and associated companies are included in the companys balance sheet at the companys share of net asset value.
The valuation recognises the cost of acquisition, together with any unamortised goodwill and changes in the book values of the underlying net assets.
The surplus or deficit arising on revaluation is reflected in the companys reserves.
Acquisitions On the acquisition of a business, including an interest in an associated undertaking, fair values are attributed to the groups share of the separable net assets.
Any goodwill arising is amortised over its expected useful life, not exceeding 20 years.
Investment properties In accordance with SSAP19, investment properties are revalued annually and the aggregate surplus or temporary deficit is transferred to the revaluation reserve.
Permanent diminutions are recognised through the profit and loss account.
No depreciation is provided in respect of investment properties.
The Companies Act 1985 requires all properties to be depreciated.
However, this requirement conflicts with the generally accepted accounting principle set out in SSAP19.
The directors consider that, because these properties are not held for consumption but for their investment potential, to depreciate them would not give a true and fair view, and that it is necessary to adopt SSAP19 in order to give a true and fair view.
If this departure from the Act had not been made, the profit for the financial year would have been reduced by depreciation.
However, the amount of depreciation cannot reasonably be quantified because depreciation is only one of many factors reflected in the annual valuation and the amount which might otherwise have been shown cannot be separately identified or quantified.
Stocks Trading properties are held as stocks for resale.
Stocks and work in progress are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value, less amounts invoiced on account.
Transfers from investment properties to stock are made at value not cost.
Deferred taxation In accordance with FRS19, deferred taxation is provided at the rate ruling at the balance sheet date on an undiscounted basis on timing differences which arise from the recognition of income and expenditure in differing periods for taxation and accounting purposes.
Under this policy no provision has been made for the potential further liability to taxation which would arise in the event of the realisation of investment properties included at valuation in the accounts at the values attributed to them.
St. MODWEN PROPERTIES PLC 51 Interest Interest incurred on properties in the course of development, whether for sale or retention as investments, is charged to the profit and loss account.
Employee Benefit Trust The own shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust are held at cost within reserves.
The shares in the trust are held to satisfy options under the companys Executive Share Option or Savings Related Share Option schemes where an employee retains shares resulting from the exercise of options.
The trust acquires shares from time to time to enable this to happen.
Where an employee decides not to hold shares, the company bears the difference between current market price and exercise price at the date of settlement.
The charge to profit in respect of share options reflects the number of shares held by the Trust, the extent to which relevant performance criteria are expected to be met, the period of time elapsed during which performance criteria apply and the average share price of the company in the three months prior to the period end.
Pension costs Retirement benefits to employees in the group are provided by a scheme comprising both defined benefit and defined contribution sections which is funded by contributions from group companies and employees.
Payments to pension funds are made in accordance with periodic calculations by professionally qualified actuaries in the case of the defined benefit section, and regularly as defined by the rules in the case of the defined contribution section.
The costs are charged to the profit and loss account, so as to spread the variations in pension cost, which are identified as a result of actuarial valuations, over the service lives of employees in the scheme in such a way that the pension cost is a substantially level percentage of current and expected future pensionable payroll.
Financial instruments Derivative instruments utilised by the group are interest rate collars and swaps.
The group does not enter into speculative derivative contracts.
All such instruments are used for hedging purposes to alter the interest rate risk profile of underlying borrowings.
Amounts payable or receivable in respect of such derivatives are recognised as adjustments to interest expense over the period of the contracts.
