St. MODWEN PROPERTIES PLC 65 Annual general meeting In accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, shareholders will be asked to approve the Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 40 to 44 for the year ended 30 November 2005.
The following resolutions have become routine business at the Annual General Meetings of most public companies, including St. Modwen Properties PLC, and relate to: Renewal of the authority for the directors to allot relevant securities and the renewal of the powers for the directors to allot equity securities for cash Resolutions 6 and 7.
The existing general authority of the directors to allot shares and the current disapplication of the statutory pre-emption rights expire at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Article 8.2 of the companys Articles of Association contains a general authority for the directors to allot shares in the company for a period not exceeding five years the prescribed period and up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount the Section 80 amount approved by a Special or Ordinary Resolution of the company.
Article 8.2 also empowers the directors during the prescribed period to allot shares for cash in connection with a rights issue and also to allot shares for cash in any other circumstances up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount approved by a Special Resolution of the company the Section 89 amount.
The board has no intention at present to exercise the authority to allot shares.
Resolution 6, which will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution, provides for the Section 80 amount to be 2,922,605 being an amount equal to the authorised but unissued share capital of the company at the date of this report and representing 24% of the companys issued share capital at that date.
Resolution 7, which will be proposed as a Special Resolution, provides for the Section 89 amount to be 603,870 representing 5% of the companys issued share capital.
The prescribed period for which these powers and authorities are granted will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held next year or on 20th July 2007 if earlier when the directors intend to seek renewal of the authorities.
Renewal of the authority for the company to purchase certain of its own shares Resolution 8.
This resolution renews an existing authority for a further year.
The directors believe it is advantageous to have such authority but would only exercise it if it was believed to be in the best interests of shareholders.
At present, the board has no intention to exercise the authority.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to remain in office and a resolution to reappoint them as auditors of the company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
