30 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements Basis of preparation Business combinations The group have adopted the requirements of International Financial Under the requirements of IFRS 3, all business combinations are Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRIC interpretations endorsed by the accounted for using the purchase method acquisition accounting.
European Union EU and those parts of the Companies Act, 1985 The cost of a business acquisition is the aggregate of fair values, at the applicable to companies reporting under IFRS, for the first time for the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, equity purpose of preparing financial statements for the period ending 31st instruments issued by the acquirer and any costs directly attributable December 2005.
The financial statements have been prepared under the to the business combination.
The cost of a business combination is historical cost convention as modied by the revaluation of assets held allocated at the acquisition date by recognising the acquirees identiable for sale.
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that satisfy the recognition criteria, at their fair values at that date.
The acquisition date is the The group issued an IFRS transition report on 29th June 2005 that set date on which the acquirer effectively obtains control of the acquiree.
out the restated 2004 comparatives and the 2005 opening balance An intangible asset, such as customer lists, brands, patents or royalties, sheet and also provided the reconciliations required by IFRS.
is recognised if it meets the denition of an intangible asset in IAS 38 These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Intangible assets, and its fair value can be measured reliably.
The excess accounting policies, set out below, which have been consistently applied of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of the to all the years presented except for those detailed below where IFRS 1 identiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of permits companies adopting IFRS for the first time to take exemptions.
acquisition is less than the fair value of the groups share of the net These accounting policies comply with applicable IFRS standards and assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly IFRIC interpretations issued and effective at the time of preparing in the income statement.
Foreign currency translation The rules for first time adoption of IFRS are set out in IFRS 1, First-time a Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
IFRS 1 requires statements of each of the groups entities are measured using the use of the same accounting policies in the IFRS transition balance sheet currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity and for all periods presented thereafter.
The consolidated financial IFRS 1 permits companies adopting IFRS for the first time to take statements are presented in Sterling, which is the companys functional exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS in the transition period.
These financial statements have been prepared on the basis of taking b Group companies The results of group entities that have a functional the following exemptions: currency different from the presentation currency Sterling are translated a Business combinations prior to 1st January 2004 have not been into Sterling at the average exchange rate and the balance sheets are restated to comply with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
translated at year-end exchange rates.
Exchange differences arising on retranslation are taken directly to shareholders equity.
b All cumulative actuarial gains and losses with respect to employee benets have been recognised in shareholders equity In addition, exchange differences arising from the translation of at 1st January 2004. borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments are also taken to shareholders equity.
c IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and presentation or IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement have Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of been adopted from 1st January 2005, with no restatement for a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity comparative information.
and translated at the closing rate.
d IFRS 2 Share-based payments has not been applied to equity Revenue recognition instruments granted before 7th November 2002.
Group revenue comprises the fair value for the rendering of services, e The group has elected to use previous revaluations for certain net of value added tax and other similar sales based taxes, rebates properties as deemed cost on the date of transition.
and discounts and after eliminating sales within the group.
Revenue is recognised as follows: The group has adopted IFRS 5 Non current assets held for sale and discontinued operations from 1st January 2004. a Rental service income Rental assets such as garments, linen and washroom equipment which are owned by the group entities where Consolidation substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of such equipment is Subsidiaries are all entities over which the group has the power to retained by group entities are capitalised as xed assets and depreciated govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a over their estimated useful lives.
shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are Income received or receivable in respect of service income is credited fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the to revenue as and when services are rendered in respect of linen and group and are fide-consolidated from the date on which control ceases.
Rental income from rental assets is accounted The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the for on an operating lease basis and is credited to revenue on a time acquisition of subsidiaries by the group.
All intra-group transactions are eliminated as part of the b Sale of goods revenue For non-contract based business, revenue consolidation process.
represents the value of goods delivered.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2005 31 Segment reporting Property, plant and equipment A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in Land and buildings comprise mainly factories and ofces.
All property, providing services that are subject to risks and returns that are different plant and equipment PPE is shown at cost less subsequent depreciation from those of other business segments.
A geographical segment is and impairment, except for land, which is shown at cost less engaged in providing services within a particular economic environment impairment.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to that is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of the acquisition of the items.
segments operating in other economic environments.
Depreciation on assets is calculated using the straight line method to Based on the risks and returns the directors consider that the primary allocate the cost of each asset to its residual value over its estimated reporting format is by business segment and that the secondary useful life, as follows: reporting format is by geographical analysis by origin and destination.
a Land and buildings Depreciated at a rate of 2% per annum on an estimate of the buildings value of freehold properties and leasehold Exceptional items properties with 50 or more years unexpired at the balance sheet date.
Items that are either material in size or non operating in nature are This rate has been determined having regard to the groups practice presented as exceptional items in the Income Statement.
The directors to maintain these assets in a continual state of sound repair and to are of the opinion that the separate recording of exceptional items extend and make improvements from time to time.
Freehold land is provides helpful information about the groups underlying business not depreciated.
Short leasehold land and buildings are depreciated by performance.
Examples of events, which may give rise to the equal instalments over the period of the lease.
classication of items as exceptional include, inter alia, restructuring of businesses, gains and losses on disposal of properties, impairment of Major renovations are depreciated over the remaining useful life of the goodwill and non-recurring income.
related asset or to the date of the next major renovation, whichever is sooner.
Dividend distribution b Plant and machinery Depreciated at rates of 10% to 50% per Final dividend distribution to the companys shareholders is recognised annum, depending on the class of the asset.
as a liability in the groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
c Hire and rental inventory Depreciated at rates of 20% to 33%, depending on class of asset, and augmented by amounts to cover Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Intangible assets When properties, plant or equipment are sold, the difference a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition between the sales proceeds and net book value is included in the over the fair value of the groups share of the net identiable assets income statement.
of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill net Residual values and useful lives of assets are reviewed annually and of amortisation prior to 1st January 2004 in respect of business amended where necessary.
An assets carrying amount is written down combinations made since 1st January 1998 is included within intangible immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount assets.
Goodwill in respect of business combinations made on or before exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of 31st December 1997 remains eliminated against reserves.
an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of Goodwill is tested annually for impairment by cash generating unit.
assessing value in use, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of there are separately identiable cash ows cash generating units and impairment testing.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include cash ow forecasts are made on the assumptions consistent with the the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold except for most up-to-date budgets and plans that have been formally approved goodwill eliminated against reserves.
These cash ows are discounted using the weighted average cost of capital for the group, adjusted for the particular risks of b Computer software Intellectual Property Rights Acquired computer the cash generating unit being reviewed for impairment.
software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specic software.
These costs are amortised Inventories over their estimated useful lives not exceeding three years.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identiable Cost is determined using the first in, first out FIFO method.
The cost and unique software products controlled by the group, and that it is of nished goods and work in progress comprises of raw materials, estimated will generate economic benets exceeding costs beyond one direct labour, other direct costs and related production overheads.
year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Direct costs include the costs of Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course software development employees.
of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Full provision is made for obsolete, defective and slow moving stock.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives not exceeding five years.
Trade receivables c Customer contracts Intangible assets arising either from legal or Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently contractual rights which have been purchased are required to be measured at amortised cost less provision for impairment.
A provision separately identied from goodwill and are stated at historical cost, for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective or in the case of intangible assets acquired as part of a business evidence that the group will not be able to collect all amounts due combination, at fair value.
The fair value attributable to the customer according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the contracts is determined by discounting the expected future cash ows provision is recognised in the income statement.
to be generated from that asset at the risk adjusted weighted average cost of capital for the group.
This amount is amortised over the period in which the company is expected to benefit from the contracts acquired, over periods ranging from two to five years.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2005 32 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements continued Cash and cash equivalents For dened contribution plans, the group pays contributions to publicly Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call or privately administered pension insurance or trustee administered with banks, other short term highly liquid investments with original plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The group has maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
are shown separately from current liabilities on the balance sheet.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to Borrowings the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction is available.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
b Share based plans The groups management awards employees Any difference between the amount initially recognised net of share options, from time to time, both on a discretionary and transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income non-discretionary basis which are subject to vesting conditions.
statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective The economic cost of awarding the share options to its employees is interest method.
recognised as an employee benefit expense in the Income Statement Borrowings are classied as non current liabilities where the group has equivalent to the fair value of the benefit awarded.
The fair value is an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least determined by reference to the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
12 months after the balance sheet date.
At each balance sheet date, the group revises its estimate of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
Deferred income tax The charge is recognised in the Income Statement over the vesting Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on period of the award.
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and The proceeds received are credited to share capital nominal value and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial share premium when the options are exercised.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet c Termination benets Termination benets are payable when an date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax employment is terminated before the normal retirement date, or asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benets.
The group recognises termination benets when it is Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is shown to be committed to either: terminating the employment of probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the current employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility temporary differences can be utilised.
of withdrawal: or providing termination benets as a result of an offer Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is d Holiday pay Paid holidays are regarded as an employee benefit and recognised in equity.
as such are charged to the Income Statement as the benets are earned.
An accrual is made at the balance sheet date to reect the fair value of Employee benets holidays earned but not yet taken.
a Pension obligations The group operates various pension schemes throughout UK, Eire and Europe.
The schemes are funded through Provisions payments to insurance companies or a trustee administered fund, Provisions for vacant properties, restructuring costs and legal claims are determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The group has both recognised when the group has a present legal or constructive obligation dened benefit and dened contribution plans.
A dened benefit as a result of past events and it is more likely than not that an outow plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one has been reliably estimated.
The groups accounting policies on these or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
areas can be found in note 18.
A dened contribution plan is a pension plan under which the group pays xed contributions into a separate entity.
The group has no legal Leases or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does a The group is the lessee Leases of property, plant and equipment not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benets relating to where the group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership employee service in the current and prior periods.
are classied as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of dened benefit leases inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and pension plans is the present value of the dened benefit obligation the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a with adjustments for unrecognised actuarial gains or losses and past constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
The dened benefit obligation is calculated annually rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in other long by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to The present value of the dened benefit obligation is determined by the income statement over the lease period so as to produce a constant discounting the estimated future cash outows using interest rates of periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in period.
Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are which the benets will be paid, and that have terms to maturity depreciated over the shorter of the assets useful life and the lease term.
approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards Current and past service costs, to the extent they have vested, are of ownership are classied as operating leases.
Payments made under recognised in operating costs in the Income Statement together with operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are interest costs on plan liabilities and the expected return on plan assets.
charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and change in actuarial assumptions are credited or b The group is the lessor Assets leased to third parties by the group charged to the statement of recognised income and expense net are classied as operating leases and are included in property, plant of deferred tax.
and equipment in the balance sheet.
They are depreciated over their expected useful lives see property, plant and equipment section.
Rental income net of any incentives given to lessees is recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2005 33 Accounting for derivative financial instruments and b Pensions and other post-employment benets The group operates a hedging activities number of dened benefit schemes within the UK and the continent Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative note 31, as at 31st December 2005 the present value of the groups contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair dened benefit obligation for funded plans was 43.8 million and value at balance sheet date.
The method of recognising the resulting 13.4 million for unfunded plans.
The calculations of the recognised gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a assets and liabilities from such plans are based upon statistical and hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
In particular the present value of the dened The group designates certain derivatives as either i hedges of the fair benefit obligation is impacted by assumptions on discount rates used to value of recognised assets or liabilities or ii hedges of net investments arrive at the present value of future pension liabilities, and assumptions in foreign operations.
on future increases in salaries and benets.
Furthermore, the groups independent actuaries use statistically based assumptions covering The group documents at the inception of the transaction the areas such as future withdrawals of participants from the plan and relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items and its estimates on life expectancy.
The actuarial assumptions used may differ assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of materially from actual results due to changes in market and economic whether the derivatives that are used in the hedging transactions are conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates or longer or shorter life highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values of hedged items.
spans of participants and other changes in the factors being assessed.
a Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of the derivatives that are These differences could impact the assets or liabilities recognised in the fully designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the balance sheet in future periods.
Income Statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the c Income taxes At 31st December 2005, the net liability for current hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
income taxes is 3.1 million and the net liability for deferred income b Net investment hedge Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument taxes is 17.2 million as disclosed in note 19.
Estimates may be required relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised directly in determining the level of current and deferred income tax assets and against reserves.
The gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is liabilities, which management believes are reasonable and adequately recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
recognises any income tax related uncertainties.
c Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Changes in the Various factors may have favourable or unfavourable effects on the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge income tax assets and liabilities.
These include changes in tax laws, tax accounting are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
rates, interpretations of existing tax laws, future levels of spending and in overall levels of future earnings.
Key assumptions and sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income, expenses and related disclosures.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Changes in accounting estimates may be necessary if there are changes in the circumstances on which the estimate was based, or as a result of new information or more experience.
Such changes are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised.
The key assumptions about the future and key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities within the next twelve months are described below.
a Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, including goodwill The group has property, plant and equipment with a carrying value of 367.2 million note 11, goodwill has a carrying value of 287.1 million note 9 and intangible assets have a carrying value of 16.4 million note 10.
These assets are reviewed annually for impairment as described above Goodwill and property, plant and equipment sections.
To assess if any impairment exists, estimates are made of the future cash ows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposal.
Actual outcomes could vary from such estimates of discounted future cash ows.
Factors such as changes in the planned use of buildings, machinery or equipment, or closure of facilities, the presence or absence of competition, or lower than anticipated sales could result in shortened useful lives or impairment.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2005
