24 Directors report continued Corporate Social Responsibility As stated in our 2004 Directors Report, the board decided that the further coordination and development of our approach to managing our Corporate Social Responsibilities CSR should be the responsibility of the newly appointed Chief Executive.
Since May 2005, the group has been performing a detailed review in order to identify the most significant CSR risks that might impact on the short-term and long-term value of the group.
As a result of this review, policies have been developed in conjunction with the group Ethics Policy, that are intended to drive appropriate management of significant CSR risk areas which include: Health and safety recognising that it is the responsibility of management to maintain healthy and safe working conditions for all of our employees and others, including customers: Human resources and employees understanding the importance of creating and maintaining a working environment where the basic rights of all of our employees are recognised: The environment demonstrating our commitment to protecting the environment consistent with the principles of the European Textile Services Association: The community giving due consideration to the obligations we have to the communities in which we operate: and Textile suppliers requiring all our businesses to seek appropriate conrmation that our suppliers, and in particular our overseas textile suppliers, adopt appropriate labour practices including a fair and honest approach to their employees and anyone with whom they trade.
Reporting procedures are now in place in order that the board can be satisfied that all of the above significant CSR risk areas are being appropriately managed.
Employees It is the groups policy not to discriminate between employees or potential employees on any grounds: promotion and development are based on each individuals aptitude, abilities and skills.
It is also the groups policy not to discriminate against disabled persons, in particular with regard to recruitment and selection, training, career development and promotion.
Where an employee becomes disabled during the course of their employment, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
Creditor payment policy It continues to be the groups policy to agree the terms of payment with each of its suppliers at the commencement of the trading relationship and to abide by those terms provided that the supplier has performed in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions.
Trade creditor days of the company for the year ended 31st December 2005 were eight days 2004: ten days and for the groups major trading companies were 31 days 2004: 33 days.
Auditors The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in ofce and a resolution that they may be reappointed will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
By order of the board David Lawler Secretary 24th February 2006 Directors responsibilities for the financial statements The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss for the financial year.
The financial statements on pages 26 to 66 have been prepared on a going concern basis, suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently, reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made and applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that the company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the company and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the board David Lawler Secretary 24th February 2006 The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2005
