8717 Unite Annual Report 29 3 06 9:35 am Page 69 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting of the Company will 10.
THAT, in accordance with Section 95 of the Act, the Directors be given be held at The Core, 40 St Thomas Street, Bristol BS1 6JZ at 9.30 a. m. on power to allot for cash equity securities as defined for the purpose of Wednesday, 10 May 2006 for the purpose of considering and, if thought fit, Section 89 of the Act pursuant to the general authority conferred on them passing the following resolutions which, in the case of resolutions numbered 1 by Resolution 9 above as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to the to 9 inclusive and 11, shall be proposed as ordinary resolutions and, in the allotment, but this power shall be limited: case of resolution numbered 10, will be proposed as a special resolution.
a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer or issue to or in favour of ordinary shareholders on the register on a date fixed by the Directors where the equity securities respectively attributable to Ordinary business the interests of all those shareholders are proportionate as nearly as 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors report and financial statements for the practicable to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them year ended 31 December 2005. on that date, but the Directors may make such exclusions or other arrangements as they consider expedient in relation to fractional 2.
To confirm and declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares for the year entitlements, legal or practical problems under the laws in any territory ended 31 December 2005 of 1.67p per ordinary share payable to or the requirements of any relevant regulatory body or stock exchange: shareholders on the register at the close of business on 18 April 2006. and 3.
To approve the directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 b to the allotment other than under a above of equity securities having a December 2005. nominal value not exceeding in aggregate 1,522,147 4.
To re-appoint Richard Walker as a Director of the Company.
and this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general 5.
To re-appoint Stuart Robert Hartley Beevor as a Director of the Company.
meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or fifteen months after the passing of this resolution, whichever shall be the sooner, save that the 6.
To re-appoint Andrew Lee as a Director of the Company.
Company may, before this authority expires, make an offer or agreement which 7.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors in accordance with Section 384 of would or might require equity securities to be allotted after it expires and the the Companies Act 1985 to hold office until the conclusion of the next Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as general meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid and to authorise if this authority had not expired and provided further that this authority shall the Directors to determine their remuneration.
supersede and revoke all previous authorities under Section 95 of the Act.
THAT, in accordance with Article 104 A of the Companys Articles of Association, the aggregate amount that may be paid to the Directors other Special business than a Managing Director or an Executive Director appointed under the 8.
THAT the authorised share capital of the Company be increased by articles in fees by way of remuneration for their services as Directors shall 4,750,000 to 43,500,000 by the creation of an additional 19,000,000 be increased to 500,000 per annum or such larger sum as the Company ordinary shares of 25p each ranking pari passu in all respects as one class may, from time to time, by ordinary resolution, otherwise determine.
of shares with the existing ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company and being subject to the restrictions set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
By order of the board A D Reid 9.
THAT the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised, in Secretary accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined for Dated 16 March 2006 the purposes of that Section up to a maximum nominal amount of Registered office: 10,147,650, provided that this authority shall expire on the day five years The Core after the passing of this Resolution unless previously renewed, varied or 40 St Thomas Street revoked by the Company in general meeting, save that the Company may, Bristol before this authority expires, make an offer of agreement which would or BS1 6JZ might require relevant securities to be allotted after it expires and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired and provided further that this authority shall supersede and revoke all previous authorities under Section 80 of the Act.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote on his her behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed with this notice for use at the meeting.
To be valid, the instrument appointing a proxy together with the power of attorney or other authority if any, under which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority, must be completed in accordance with the instructions set out on the form and deposited at or posted to the office of the registrars of the Company, Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS13 8FB so as to be received not later than 9.30 a. m. on 8 May 2006.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not preclude shareholders from attending or voting at the meeting in person.
Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, members will only be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting if they are registered on the Companys register of members 48 hours before the time appointed for the meeting, or any adjournment thereof.
Copies of the Directors service contracts with the Company are available at the registered office of the Company for inspection during usual business hours on any weekday from the date of this notice until the date of the meeting and also on the day of the meeting at The Core, 40 St Thomas Street, Bristol BS1 6JZ from 9.15 a. m. until the conclusion of the meeting.
