Note i: Calculated as profit before interest and taxation as a percentage of the average of opening and closing capital employed.
Note ii: Calculated as profit on ordinary activities after taxation as a percentage of the average of opening and closing shareholders funds.
co. uk Financial diary Annual General Meeting 1 September 2005 Half year end 31 October 2005 Interim Report for the six months to 31 October 2005 9 December 2005 Preliminary announcement of results for year to 30 April 2006 June 2006 Publication of 2005 06 Annual Report July 2006 Return of capital Class of B share Payment Expected record date Proceeds per share 2004 B share Paid on 3 December 2004 5 2006 B share 29 December 2006 2 2008 B share 31 December 2008 2 2010 B share 31 December 2010 3 Total 12 Berkeley annual report 2005 Berkeley annual report 2005 Building on experience The Berkeley Group Holdings plc Berkeley House 19 Portsmouth Road, Cobham Surrey KT11 1JG UK Telephone 44 0 1932 868555 Facsimile 44 0 1932 868667 Website www.
co. uk Designed by Tor Pettersen & Partners Printed in England by Ingersoll Printers This report is printed on Revive Special Silk.
At least 30% of the total fibre content comes from well-managed forests independently certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council, and 30% is from post-consumer recycled waste paper.
Advisers statement including the development of quantifiable presents a significant challenge.
The The Berkeley Group has asked performance targets, and hope that they Berkeley Groups focus on environmental Upstream to comment upon its will be helpful in enabling the company targets for the coming year will be sustainability strategy and its disclosure to better understand the relationship crucial in ensuring that the companys concerning sustainability issues.
between sustainability issues and commitment to the environment is As the companys external sustainability business performance.
complementary to the provision of good Berkeley sustainability report 2005 adviser, this statement has been quality, affordable housing.
prepared on the basis of our longAt a project level, this report provides standing knowledge of the companys greater depth and detail concerning Finally, it is particularly encouraging to approach to sustainability.
The Berkeley Groups approach to note the companys sense of long-term sustainability during each phase of the responsibility to the communities in The Berkeley Groups focus on urban development process.
In addition which it works, through the legacy that regeneration means that sustainability to its ongoing focus on regenerating its projects leave behind.
An important is at the heart of its business and is now brownfield sites, the companys aspect of this is engaging with a material consideration for many of the commitment to achieve an Excellent customers to encourage sustainable Groups major projects.
EcoHomes rating on one of its projects behaviour in the occupation of represents significant progress.
In this regard, The Berkeley The Berkeley Group has continued provide a valuable insight into the Group has made good progress during to develop its corporate sustainability measures required to reach such the past year and has set targets to Building for strategy and has detailed within the standards, which are becoming an further develop this aspect of its report progress in relation to its key increasingly important aspect of both sustainability strategy in the year ahead.
The implementation of the public and private sector development.
Land Purchase Risk Assessment The companys commitment to Based upon our knowledge of the Sustainability Checklist is an important continuous improvement is also company, we are satisfied that this the future step forward in understanding illustrated by its review of waste report provides a balanced account sustainability risks and opportunities management, the examples of innovation the companys progress and at the earliest stage of the development in construction techniques and the achievements during the past year.
As detailed within this report, trialling of new sustainability technologies, We look forward to the companys the company has also undertaken an including renewable energy.
extensive review of its Key Performance Indicators KPIs to ensure that they add For the house building sector, upholding Sarah Ratcliffe value to the business.
We look forward sustainability standards whilst responding Director to future reports against these new KPIs, to the increased demand for housing Upstream The Berkeley Group Holdings plc Berkeley House 19 Portsmouth Road, Cobham Surrey KT11 1JG UK Telephone 44 0 1932 868555 Facsimile 44 0 1932 868667 Website www.
Increase the proportion of waste In addition to these targets, Berkeley Communications recycled on those major projects with remains committed to developing Ensure the divisions have appropriate Sustainabilityis data gathering already in place.
its sustainability strategy to drive a sustainability training programmes Review the waste and energy savings continuous improvement in performance.
arising from the Evolution project, Berkeley has therefore set itself the Improve the communication elemental to our which uses Modern Methods of following targets: of sustainability issues to customers.
busness Construction and draft a case study Review the sustainability content to be distributed to other divisions.
Strategy of Berkeleys corporate website.
Implement the Land Purchase Risk Transport Assessment Sustainability Checklist Draft a briefing note on the on all new sites.
implementation of car clubs using case Audit the companys four main divisions studies from various divisions within using its Sustainability Performance Berkeley is a leader in the business of urban regeneration the Group.
Management Tool, which includes ongoing targets from previous years.
The company has an unrivalled understanding Supply chain management Participate more proactively in industryEnsure that environmental requirements wide sustainability initiatives.
of the land development market and has become an expert are included in the tendering process, in creating mixed-use communities in towns and cities.
contractual requirements and ongoing Performance monitoring of major suppliers Gather data in relation to Berkeleys This is now the principal focus of its activities.
recently revised Sustainability Key Seek verification from suppliers that Performance Indicators SKPI.
It is led by Tony Pidgley, the Berkeley Timber Policy is being Set performance targets in relation adhered to.
to selected Sustainability Key who with Jim Farrer, the companys Life President Performance Indicators.
founded the business some 30 years ago.
Pilot new sustainability indicators relating to transport, timber and renewable energy in selected divisions.
Contents Average percentage of dwellings Average RIDDOR incident rates per Average percentage of site fitted with dual flush WCs 1,000 employees on all sites principal managers completing the CITB 2 Chairman and Managing contractor and client only sites 5 day safety training course 89 Directors introduction 11.4 85 93 93 90 74 10.2 77 4 Legacy 6.8 5 Sustainability strategy 51 7.4 8 Development process 8 Land acquisition 12 Planning and concept design 16 Construction 01 02 02 03 03 04 04 05 01 02 02 03 03 04 04 05 01 02 02 03 03 04 04 05 18 Detailed specification The trend over the last four years shows that This data includes those sites where the company Training is crucial to the effective delivery of Berkeleys 22 Sales and marketing Berkeley is gradually increasing the potential water is the principal contractor and those where it does health and safety strategy and targets.
This indicator 24 Workforce efficiency of its dwellings with almost 90% of all not have primary management responsibility for refers to the five day CITB Site Managers training dwellings completed having dual flush WCs installed.
Berkeley has a target to reduce its course on health and safety issues.
The Group 26 Target progress 2004 05 Berkeley expects its performance against this RIDDOR incident rate by 10% per annum.
Over the continues to be at the forefront of health and safety indicator to continue to improve as this is now a past four years Berkeley has decreased the average initiatives in the sector see page 24 for more details.
28 Sustainability targets 2005 06 standard specification for all new dwellings.
incident rate by a total of 35%.
Back Advisers statement cover Average SAP ratings for all Average carbon dioxide Average water consumption dwellings completed emissions from our fixed offices in our fixed offices 2 3 kgs of carbon dioxide per m m per employee 95.8 22.6 79.4 79.0 74.7 79.6 97.6 83.6 20.4 59.7 14.4 11.7 01 02 02 03 03 04 04 05 01 02 02 03 03 04 04 05 01 02 02 03 03 04 04 05 The marketing suite at Berkeley is continuing to explore ways in which it can In context, the environmental impacts associated with Berkeleys occupation of property are only a small part move towards a higher average SAP rating.
Some of its overall impact.
However, Berkeleys efforts to reduce these impacts is an important demonstration of its St James Grosvenor of its new build houses have achieved average SAP commitment to sustainability and is particularly important when communicating with employees.
Many of ratings of over 90, but the high proportion of Berkeleys fixed offices have resource efficiency programmes in place and Berkeley has reduced its energy Waterside development.
apartments and refurbished dwellings that Berkeley consumption by 38%, and water consumption by 36% over the past four years.
builds reduces the overall SAP ratings.
This data only covers buildings where we have direct control over utilities purchasing.
2005Financial highlights The return to shareholders Earnings per share Operating profit Net assets per share p including joint adding back B share ventures m redemptions p B share redemption 130 235 232 121 2004 B share 5 215 213 116 944 paid on 3rd December 2004 105 829 178 92 717 628 2006 B share 2 expected on 29th December 2006 558 2008 B share 2 expected on 31st December 2008 2010 B share 3 expected on 31st December 2010 Total 12 01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 Payment to shareholders First 604.1 million 5 per 2004 B Share made in December 2004 Strategic review On target to meet next tranche 2 per share in December 2006.
Further payments scheduled for December 2008 2 and December 2010 3 Net debt 255.1 million net debt from 145.2 million net cash at last yearend, with gearing at 38% Cash flow 239.9 million of cash generated before financing and dividends Operating margins Group house-building operating margins, excluding land sales, up to 18.6% from 17.5% Pre-tax profits Down 11.7% to 202.9 million Earnings per share Reduced by 7.2% to 121.0p Net asset value per share Up 12.5% to 1,062p if 2004 B Share payment 500p is included.
Down 40.9% to 558p following B Share redemption Return on capital employed Increased to 22.2% from 21.4% Land holdings 27,278 plots up from 26,654 Forward order book 948.0 million compared to 945.3 million last year-end Crosby disposal Disposal of Crosby for 235.7 million and 15.0 million in respect post year-end of working capital provided to Crosby since 30th April 2005, completed on 8 July 2005 Chairman and Managing Directors introduction Evolving our sustainability strategy Berkeleys sustainability strategy covers Alongside good health and plentiful food, a home ranks as one of the core all of the companys divisions.
The data essentials of life.
In Britain, our economy, transport, employment and quality presented within this report, and the case of life are all linked to the availability, studies highlighted, relate to the companys affordability, location and quality of our homes.
A thriving market for housing five main divisions Berkeley Homes plc, provides the economic means by which St George plc, Berkeley First, Crosby Group we create new communities and give new life to old ones.
Together they So, housing is too precious a resource represent 95% of the companys value.
Its essential to our way of life.
Essential to the raising of living standards for all in our society.
At Berkeley, because we take housing seriously, we take our responsibilities seriously too.
In how we Who we are Berkeley Homes Crosby Homes Berkeley Homes urban regeneration Crosby specialises in the urban schemes reflect the companys focus renaissance of towns and cities across on bringing dynamic mixed-use the Midlands and the North of England, Our developments to brownfield land across where its major developments have London and the South-East.
established the company as a market building www.
co. uk St George blocks Operating solely in London, St George Berkeley First is creating some of the capitals leading Berkeley First is believed to be the first Berkeley operates and most pioneering, large-scale private sector developer focused solely regeneration schemes.
on affordable-led accommodation, through a number www.
co. uk delivering well-designed and attractive homes to key workers and students.
of strongly branded St James www.
These are Established as a joint venture company between Berkeley and Thames Water, managed in an St James Homes has quickly forged an autonomous manner, impressive reputation for the innovation and quality brought to bear on its but each draws on developments in the South-East.
co. uk and management experience at the centre of the company.
co. uk And it keeps us focused on the regeneration of redundant land.
This is our fourth Sustainability Report.
We have worked hard this year to make the policies outlined in previous years part of the very DNA of our business.
We are succeeding, but are not yet satisfied and this year have set ourselves a range of new targets to drive us further forward.
We remain Roger Lewis, Chairman Tony Pidgley, Managing Director enthusiastic about meeting these continuing challenges and being part find land to build on.
land in towns and cities across Britain.
of the cutting edge of land development How we build.
How we make sure the More than any isolated office blocks, in the United Kingdom.
Housing is too communities we create thrive.
And how or a solitary residential development, important to treat any other way.
we help the communities that are large-scale mixed-use regeneration already there.
schemes can permanently and radically Thank you for reading this report.
transform the heart and face of a town, And please do let us know your As demand for housing continues and herald a new era of fortune and views whether you are an investor, to grow, we will not shrink from our vitality.
All public policy makers now a customer or any other form of responsibility to find ways to meet it embrace this reality, and Berkeley partner in our business.
and ways to minimise the environmental is proud that its business is recognised impacts that this demand will inevitably as being in the vanguard of unlocking create.
demands more and more housing, Roger Lewis, Chairman but also wants a legacy for the built This creation of attractive and sustainable environment of which this generation communities is at the heart of Berkeleys can be proud.
Thats why we are now business.
It ensures we maximise value focusing our expertise on the creation of for our shareholders.
It reinforces our mixed-use communities on brownfield commitment to continuous improvement.
Tony Pidgley, Managing Director Over 95% of our developments are on brownfield sites Brewery Square is a striking example of successful brownfield development.
Built on the site of a former brewery, its 198 apartments, 6 town houses, 2 and over 2,000m of retail space have created a whole new community in the heart of London.
co. uk 3 Legacy This is Berkeleys fourth annual Sustainability Report.
Each year Berkeley has evolved its approach to reporting to ensure that it gives the clearest possible portrait of how its Sustainability Strategy and policies are put into practice throughout the group.
This year, Berkeley has concentrated upon the legacy that its projects leave behind for the community and for future generations.
The intention is to provide readers with more comprehensive examples of the processes involved in bringing a site to development and the way in which Berkeleys sustainability policies and expertise are applied throughout this process.
The report provides information in relation to the key stages of development for each project land acquisition, planning and concept design, construction, detailed specification and sales and marketing.
Each of these phases is illustrated by the use of detailed case studies, together with examples of other initiatives drawn from across the Group.
Royal Arsenal, Woolwich, exemplifies a mixed urban development.
Ultimately, the 76 acre site will form a whole new neighbourhood in London, creating a sustainable community in a historic riverside setting.
co. uk s s t r n e Sustainability strategy The sustainability strategy aims to indicated that Berkeleys management 4 Engaging with stakeholders: make a long-term contribution to the of sustainability risk is above the Berkeleys commitment to engage with environmental, social and economic average for its peer group and is now its stakeholders remains central to its fabric of the communities in which rated at BBB.
Berkeley remains Berkeley works and to secure the committed to strengthening its business advantages this offers.
2 Operating efficiently: Berkeley works relationships with all of its stakeholders, hard to ensure that the construction whether this is at a local, regional or Berkeleys sustainability strategy process is managed as efficiently national level, and endeavours to work has four key principles at its heart.
The review of waste with them to ensure that it can continue management practices see page 16 to provide both good quality homes for 1 Managing risk: Sustainability issues and the Constructing Excellence project its customers and communities that will form a crucial aspect of Berkeleys risk at St George Wharf are two examples stand the test of time.
assessment process for all projects, of work in this area.
including at the initial stages of purchasing land.
This year the 3 Creating new opportunities: company has introduced a detailed Berkeleys strategic decision to focus its Land Purchase Risk Assessment activities in the field of urban regeneration Sustainability Checklist see page 8 provided an emphatic demonstration for more details to form part of this of its commitment to sustainable key process.
This is where its expertise on all new sites, thereby ensuring that has enabled Berkeley to build upon sustainability objectives are integrated its strong skills base and create new from the earliest stage.
Berkeley has business and employment possibilities, also been assessed each quarter using maximising the opportunities from land Key sustainability impacts the SERM Risk Rating methodology.
in towns and cities and embracing The illustration below shows the Initially an overall risk rating of BBB a public policy agenda which favours four principal objectives of the was achieved.
The SERM report such regeneration.
The significance of sustainability Key sustainability impacts e i e t e d i c m l n r o u n o h o Making a long-term contribution Developing Protecting and partnerships enhancing Safe, healthy and fulfilled m f e r k i k m r v a o o n t W C E S r d M e i r t g s u v n o n c i i o e l n e h o i s m w t s i l i i o t b n i n r a g i g m t n s a m g E n, o d c I s m y g s m y t n e i s a i l p t i u d n e l b n s a e a m a s g n t i m s e s i r a e m e t Sustainability strategy...
Updates Understanding sustainability issues: policy and this year has developed sustainability strategy resulting in a The four principal objectives of a working at height protocol.
Berkeleys strategy see page 5 were based upon a review of its most Measuring our impacts: Berkeley Monitoring, reviewing and significant sustainability impacts.
These has been measuring its sustainability disclosing: All of the divisions are are reviewed on a regular basis.
A full performance since 2002 against required to report on their progress list of Berkeleys specific impacts can a number of Key Performance Indicators in relation to Berkeleys targets and KPIs be found at www.
This year it carried out an on a quarterly basis.
This year, a new together with the previous sustainability extensive review of its KPIs and will be reporting format was developed to reports which evolved Berkeleys introducing a number of new indicators, encourage greater consistency in this approach to addressing each of these and amending or dropping some of its reporting.
Berkeley continues to disclose impact areas.
More information information in relation to sustainability is provided on this at the end of in its annual report and accounts, on its Establishing our commitment: this report.
website and in this free standing report.
Berkeleys sustainability policy is subject to review each year.
Together with Implementing management Sharing good practice: With an a number of subsidiary policies covering systems: Berkeley operates a devolved increasing number of projects specific issues such as environment, management structure.
This year the implementing sustainability initiatives, health and safety and equal divisions have made substantial progress Berkeley wants to ensure it learns as opportunities, it sets out the key in developing their sustainability much as possible about the challenges sustainability objectives for the company.
Examples include and opportunities that arise.
The From time to time Berkeley develops the development of an environmental company has a number of formal and company-wide policies concerning management manual for St George, informal mechanisms for sharing good specific impact areas where a consistent St James review of their management practice, such as Sustainability and approach can be taken across all of the manual to incorporate sustainability Health and Safety working groups, divisions.
For example, last year it issues and Berkeley Homes and the company Intranet, good practice developed a company-wide timber Berkeley Firsts strategic review of their guidance notes and briefings.
Committed to continuous improvement The Berkeley Group strategic sustainability model All of the elements of Berkeleys sustainability strategy have two fundamentals at their heart: communication with stakeholders and an ongoing commitment to improvement.
co. uk n s d e t u n i n s U n t g o M d e u o c e r i o a t i g c s m a u g p r r n a i p i n c r t a g s h S Governance in relation to the sustainability KPIs For more detailed information about The governance procedures in place and shares good practice in relation specific impact areas, please refer relating to sustainability issues include: to sustainability issues.
External to the website: independent strategic sustainability www.
co. uk Board reports Berkeleys quarterly advisers attend the meetings to provide or contact Berkeley at: Board reports include details of independent counsel on Berkeleys sustainability@berkeleygroup.
co. uk performance in relation to its strategy and the SWG also occasionally A full statement of Berkeleys sustainability KPIs and additional invites outside speakers to make corporate governance is contained qualitative information concerning the presentations to the Group.
implementation of the Companys sustainability strategy.
Divisional Sustainability Working Groups Berkeley Homes, St George Heads of Divisions meetings and St James have their own internal The Heads of Divisions meetings have sustainability working groups, which placed significant emphasis on meet on a regular basis in order sustainability issues this year, to ensure that the divisions are particularly in light of Berkeleys long-term implementing their own sustainability business strategy to focus on urban strategies.
These report into the regeneration projects.
Sustainability Working Group SWG meetings Sustainability Working Group meetings are held once a quarter Benefiting from stunning landscaped and are made up of Board and senior areas, water features and a unique managers from across the main divisions setting, at Chelsea Bridge Wharf of the company.
The SWG reviews Berkeley Homes are developing an progress towards targets, performance innovative mixed-use scheme to regenerate an important site adjacent to Battersea Power Station.
co. uk 7 Development process Land acquisition Understanding the risks Sustainability Objectives Key Risks Opportunities and opportunities Protecting and enhancing the Pollution, Land Use, Energy, Berkeleys years of experience have seen natural environment: Ecology, Waste, Materials, Transport, it steadily build a bank of knowledge Flooding Water.
that has informed its approach to sites, Building Communities: Local Economy & Employment, and has created the very sustainability Housing Choice, Community checklist that is now used to assist Investment, Accessibility, Safety & the acquisition process.
it is ensuring that a sites heritage is preserved, or its natural environment Engaging with Stakeholders Identification of key stakeholders and protected, understanding the risks their interests.
or, as importantly, the opportunities Contributing to a safe and Potential health and safety risks and at its sites is one of Berkeleys healthy workforce requirements.
For each plot of land Berkeley acquires, rigorous investigations are undertaken new sites as a mandatory requirement.
where Berkeley go on to acquire the to ensure that it has fully understood Structured according to Berkeleys site, the checklist provides an excellent the risks and opportunities associated sustainability objectives, the checklist tool to effectively address sustainability with the potential development.
covers a wide range of sustainability issues in the planning, design, Sustainability issues have always issues and demonstrates the breadth construction and marketing of featured prominently in this process.
of investigative work that Berkeley the development.
This year, as part of the continuous undertakes on all of its developments.
process of embedding its sustainability procedures, Berkeley has introduced This checklist enables Berkeley to make a new sustainability checklist to be an assessment of risks involved and used during the acquisition process.
to determine opportunities to implement This is now being implemented on all best practice initiatives.
Furthermore, The process in action Seeing the potential Charter Quay It may seem difficult to An imaginative approach to land Respect for the past acquisition Respect for the past was a key theme believe that this one The site of Charter Quay in Kingstonin the planning and design of the development could be so Upon-Thames had been left derelict development.
St George provided time, important to a town that many for a number of years and this had logistical support and funding for consider the epitome of a adversely impacted on Kingstons a successful programme of major well-off Surrey market town.
ancient market square, which was archeological excavation on the site.
However, Kingston has been spiralling into decline.
St George bought Important insights were gained into how the land, and following extensive public the town of Kingston developed from an industrial town and home consultation, an imaginative design was an Anglo-Saxon settlement to the town to many famous high agreed that met stakeholder it is today.
Public exhibitions were held technology names.
St George went on to and a book published to show the manufacturing base has now secure planning permission and the importance of the site, and artefacts gone and Charter Quay is a schemes success reflects the from excavation are now on permanent benchmark example of how exceptional partnership that has been exhibition at the Kingston Museum.
forged between the public, private and To retain these important links to the regeneration flows from the community sectors.
The resulting past, St George worked closely with imaginative use of redundant social, environmental and economic English Heritage, Kingston Council, town centre sites.
benefits to the neighbourhood will be the Environment Agency and local Graham P McNally immense.
It was a complicated site, conservation groups to create a high Kingston Town Centre Manager with much to consider.
Two key areas quality design that included extensive were the sites past and heritage, as reference to the towns history.
The new well as the sites natural environment.
co. uk design incorporated a mix of styles, with quality contemporary design fronting the River Thames and the historic market square frontage incorporating medieval, Stuart and Georgian features, reflecting the historic urban landscape.
A Jacobean staircase was carefully restored and was incorporated into one of the new shops providing a tangible physical link between the old Castle Inn, where the original staircase stood, and the new Charter Quay development.
St George provided the means for Many of the exciting finds are a major, successful archeological now on permanent display at the excavation at the historically significant Kingston Museum.
co. uk 9 Land acquisition Protecting and Enhancing the new species of plants and trees, Providing significant new areas Natural Environment environmental concerns can alter the of open space.
As the majority of its developments are future face of Berkeley developments.
on brownfield land Berkeley can make The creation of new habitats, a significant contribution to protecting When ecological and environmental particularly wetland habitats.
and enhancing local ecological diversity.
issues are to be considered, Berkeley Not only does this enable the company frequently seeks to marry its own Opening up riverside walkways and to make a positive environmental experience of site development with providing access to the River Thames.
contribution, but it can also be an the knowledge of external experts.
important factor in improving the quality Recently, St George commissioned Increased public permeability.
of life for local residents.
Berkeleys an independent consultant to undertake approach to site surveys therefore a detailed review of the contribution Retaining and protecting existing embraces the many responsibilities made to biodiversity on some of its mature trees.
developers have towards the natural major projects.
Such duties are wideemblematic of Berkeleys approach to Encouraging diverse planting schemes ranging, and an extensive site survey sustainability.
By working in partnership appropriate to specific locations.
is vital in ensuring that all risks are with a wide range of external bodies understood and all opportunities and authorities, Berkeley can ensure Interpretation of habitats to contribute considered.
Understanding the nature that the diverse issues surrounding their to education and raising the awareness of this task at site survey stage ensures developments can be catered for.
of the importance of biodiversity.
that the design and construction This review highlighted the important processes can be managed with these contribution made to: key issues in mind.
And they are large issues indeed.
Whether it is timing build programmes to minimise disruption during nesting seasons, or creating landscaped designs that introduce The process in action Charter Quay A haven for wildlife Charter Quay had been derelict for many years and a whole host of flora and fauna had emerged where former buildings had stood.
An ecological conservation plan was produced, detailing how the ecology of the site could be saved and enhanced.
Plans included: the formation of a wetland area with reed beds to provide a spawning habitat for fish: the The long-term environmental impacts The ecological conservation plan incorporation of breeding and roosting associated with the development were adopted at Charter Quay led to sites for bats and birds with holes and also a key feature in the design, which extensive work that has ensured the perches for Kingfishers: and undertaking focused on minimising car use and important wetland area thrives.
riverwall treatments to enable plants encouraging residents and visitors to and vertebrates to thrive.
Extensive walk or use public transport.
Charter work was undertaken on the now Quay is close to the town centre, with as well as five secure compounds for established wetland area to insure its access to shops and facilities, as well residents within the basement car conservation.
This included a new as numerous bus stops and Kingston parks providing just less than one cycle floating reed bed, a variable depth train station.
There are five routes space per dwelling.
Some of the channel and extensive erosion control.
through the development linking the dwellings were also able to achieve Roof gardens were also created on two historic market square and the new SAP ratings of over 100, a reflection of the blocks, providing additional theatre provided as part of the of their energy efficiency.
wildlife habitats and extra open spaces development to the river walkway.
There are public bike stands on the site, 10 www.
co. uk Original features are blended with modern settings at Charter Quay, where this Jacobean staircase was carefully restored and incorporated.
co. uk 11 Planning and concept design The planning and design processes are by the South East England Development Protecting our Inheritance crucial to the effective delivery of Agency SEEDA.
By introducing these There are few places in the world sustainability objectives, for it is during checklists at an early stage in the with such a rich architectural heritage this phase of the development that the planning process, Berkeley ensures as Britain.
Preserving that heritage strategic objectives for the site are its design teams and consultants for future generations is a national translated into the design.
What is incorporate sustainability principles responsibility, which is why conservation equally crucial is that the concerns and into the concept design.
and restoration are so important aspirations of the local communities are to Berkeley.
In a recent publication, recognised, and addressed, especially However, it is the combination of such Protecting our Inheritance, Berkeley as sustainability issues are becoming measures and checks with community summarised the contribution that they an increasingly important consideration consultation that ensures the planning have made to bringing historic buildings in the planning process.
and design of Berkeley sites meets back to their former magnificence.
the aspirations of all involved.
Berkeley These developments range form Berkeley believes that its approach engages at an early stage with the individual buildings such as the to consultation and sustainability very people at the heart of their Grade II Listed Burford Lodge in is instrumental in its ability to maximise developments local communities.
Dorking and Milford House in Surrey the planning potential of its sites.
Many By listening to their concerns for their designed by the architect Tom Smith Local Planning Authorities now have areas Berkeley is able to incorporate in 1735, to major sites such as Royal sustainability Supplementary Planning their views on such diverse matters Clarence Yard in Gosport, Gunwharf Guidance and Checklists, and Berkeley as the types of tenure involved, Quays in Portsmouth, Smithfield Market ensures that it not only responds protection of the environment, in Manchester and the Royal Arsenal to these, but also demonstrates how and sites existing heritage.
For instance, St James introduced a sustainability checklist for projects some time ago and, more recently, Berkeley Homes and Berkeley First have introduced a checklist based upon the sustainability model produced The process in action facilitated by independent experts.
that the design solution can be made The weekend involved two days of the best possible for all involved, and Hungate workshops and hands-on planning it is how the vital details are worked sessions looking at the future of York out.
For instance, at Hungate, the Berkeley is committed to listening and the site itself.
Over 250 people Masterplan was revised to preserve to the concerns and aspirations of the attended the event and the main a medieval church and cemetery, while communities in which it works.
consensus points were analysed a new riverside walkway and River Foss Stakeholder engagement forms a central and evaluated by the Masterplanners crossing will be provided.
It is listening theme in all Berkeley developments.
before an overall vision for Hungate like this that makes Berkeley succeed.
Planning Policy Statement 1: Delivering was developed.
Sustainable Development, places Long-term neighbourhood a strong emphasis upon stakeholder It is consultation, and partnerships such management engagement in the planning process, as these, that ensure that the huge For Berkeley, it is vital that consultation particularly with local communities.
The potential of sites like Hungate can be does not end at the planning and Hungate site at York, where Berkeley realised.
The Community Planning design stage.
One of the main is the lead developer, provided a unique Weekend ensured that all of the recommendations from Hungates opportunity to create a new urban concerns of the local community were Community Planning Weekend was neighbourhood within the heart of a voiced and addressed.
that community involvement should be historic city.
Crosby Group recognised ongoing during the development of the at a very early stage in the project that Crosby Groups response to the Masterplan.
The Hungate Community the local community should play community consensus points was Forum was created and met on a crucial role in helping to shape the carefully formulated to meet all of these a monthly basis to discuss the nature of the development.
priorities and the design vision for proposal.
The Forums have been Hungate addressed them fully.
From regularly attended by between 50 and A community vision the creation of a new crossing over 70 people and groups have been To ensure that the community is the River Foss, to the types of tenure formed to discuss further areas such fully involved in the design process, to be built, the breadth of consultation as urban design and housing, transport, a community engagement strategy at Hungate is typical of Berkeley environment, culture, enterprise, mixed was developed.
Central to this was developments.
It is only by such uses and archaeology.
The Forum has a Community Planning Weekend, partnership with the local communities made an ongoing and important 12 www.
co. uk Above: Lyme Wharf, Camden.
Topic Community Engagement Consensus Mixed Use A wide variety of uses would generate a sustainable, Neighbourhood vibrant and attractive new quarter for York City Centre.
Mixed Tenure A range of new housing units, including some affordable Neighbourhood units, would help to create an integrated community.
Urban Form The development should respect and complement the existing urban grain of the city centre, generally reflecting its street and public space patterns.
Pedestrian & Cycle The car should not dominate the public spaces, which Priority should reflect the quality of the pedestrian priority areas contribution to the Master planning in the city centre.
process and in defining the character Access There should be new pedestrian and cycle routes across of the proposed new neighbourhood.
the River Foss from the south and east to increase the permeability through Hungate to the city centre and local A Hungate Community Trust has communities.
also been formed by local people and interested parties, the role of which Heritage New streets and public spaces in the area should reflect the is to manage community, enterprise historical patterns of this quarter of the city.
It is just Ecology The River Foss and Foss Islands Nature Reserve should be one of the many ways that Berkeley cleaned up and properly maintained.
Edges should be ensures it discharges its duties and enhanced to encourage a diversity of wildlife.
responsibilities to the local community at Hungate, and all of its other Community Cultural A new building should be provided for community, developments.
Leisure Building cultural and leisure uses.
Archaeology The archaeology of the area should be documented and respected.
The location of a former medieval church and cemetery offers the opportunity for creating a new public space over the site of the former burial ground.
co. uk 13 Planning and concept design Sustainability Beyond the Site: takes differs, of course, from place park, are recognised as contributing Sustainability is perhaps most often to place.
What is common, however, to the increased diversity and growth associated with the many things that is the fact that the regeneration of major of local economies, while creating new are done on-site and in the homes urban sites can provide unique opportunities and facilities for Berkeley build.
But thats only part of opportunities to drive the next stage communities.
Berkeley is delighted the story.
Berkeley knows that its of an areas growth.
With local and to be in the vanguard of this change.
impacts make a very real and very regional authorities as keen as Berkeley lasting difference to towns and cities as to place a strong emphasis on a whole.
So, Berkeley works closely sustainability, such objectives quickly with local and regional stakeholders, come to underpin the whole of the communities, and authorities to ensure Development Framework.
As a result, that sustainability principles are applied mixed-use developments, more than beyond its sites.
What form this process any solitary housing block or business Recreation Park Sports Centre Library Cultural Centre Right: Manor Farm, Reading Gateway, will be a major redevelopment in partnership Shopping Centre with Reading Borough Council.
The process in action Reading Gateway Responding to local needs Following the relocation of the existing a fully sustainable community and In addition to a total of between 900 2 sewage works to a nearby site, Manor to ensure that the town, as a whole, 1,000m of community facilities that are Farm in Reading provided St James with feels the benefits of the development.
to be provided on site, a cultural strategy the opportunity to secure the A full socio-economic assessment has also been developed.
This aims redevelopment of a major urban site is being undertaken to ensure that the to create a unique identity for the and a unique opportunity to work with facilities meet local needs and development through a place making Reading Borough Council and their complement and enhance existing approach that contributes towards strong emphasis on sustainability issues.
The town Readings City 2020 vision.
In addition The Council has identified a specific need is a key location for over 17 national to public art, discussions are taking to address a real housing shortage and international businesses, including place with the University of Readings within the area of the town.
St James 9 business HQs in the financial and School of Fine Art, with a view to development aims to meet this need, commercial sectors.
There is a heavy providing a schools gallery to exhibit by providing good quality housing with emphasis on the technology sector, the work of students, lecturers, visiting a broad mix of tenure types, the designs and the Manor Farm development will artists and travelling exhibitions.
This of which will incorporate Lifetime Homes contribute towards increased diversity gallery could form part of the community 2 criteria.
Indeed, some 850 dwellings, of the local economy.
Including 11,150m facilities to be incorporated within the including 30% 255 affordable units, of commercial office space and a 200 development.
It could offer studios, will be delivered in association with the bedroom hotel, the development workspaces and performance rehearsal Registered Social Landlord.
will seek to capitalise on the close spaces for participative arts in line with connection with other employment Readings aim of providing space and Beyond housing, St James and Reading centres and seek to attract further inward support for creative industries.
Borough Council were eager to secure investment into the area.
co. uk 15 Construction Building success contractors ability and resources to good practice and recommend high Some years ago the Egan and Latham ensure that proper standards of quality, level waste policy and strategy.
Reports identified the inefficiencies within safety and sustainability performance construction, the most visible aspect are achievable.
Its just one of the many The review made over 50 detailed of the development process.
It is ways that Berkeley discharges recommendations concerning waste during this time that the vision created its responsibilities.
policy, data, practical implementation in the planning and design phases and specific waste streams.
One of the becomes reality.
It is also Berkeleys Waste Management Review examples of best practice highlighted most public interface.
It is, therefore, In light of continuing increases in landfill was the collection of waste data at the essential that the commitment to tax, the changes in waste acceptance St George Battersea Reach site, where sustainability is effectively implemented criteria and the costs and environmental the project team has been working with and communicated.
Thus, eligible impacts associated with waste disposal, a specialist waste contractor to sites register with the Considerate Berkeley commissioned an independent implement an integrated waste Constructors Scheme and a community consultant to undertake a review of the management strategy.
This data typically liaison officer is appointed on all companys waste management shows that 20% of the site waste major projects.
The aim of the project was is being sent directly for recycling, to review existing waste management with a further 64% being sent These principles extend right the way practices, highlight and recommend to a Materials Recovery Facility MRF.
down to the suppliers Berkeley uses at its developments.
Good relationships with these are critical to the effective Average number of 7 yard skips delivery of projects and form a crucial removed per dwelling aspect of Berkeleys sustainability strategy.
Intelligent procurement is not about aggressive tendering and Berkeley implements a commercial testing process when procuring trade contractors.
This encompasses a comprehensive assessment of the The process in action St George Wharf Managing the construction process from the ground up Constructing excellence: the project and promoting a focus alternative methods.
Working closely St George Wharf is a landmark mixedon collaborative enterprise.
A project with the Building Research use development in Vauxhall, on the team, based on site, was created that Establishment, St George was able bank of the River Thames, and encompassed all the disciplines to incorporate the findings of the is a demonstration project under the of construction and ensured efficient Cardington Concrete frame project, Governments Constructing Excellence project delivery.
resulting in a significant reduction programme.
The seven-acre site, of 39% in operative hour days from dormant for 35 years, will be transformed Construction innovation: The project Phase 1 to Phase 2.
A steering group into a mixed-use development involved the construction of five was set up to oversee the project and 2 of 100,000m, with over 900 residential stepped towers with gull wing roofs to ensure that the findings were apartments, offices, restaurants, retail that cascade down to the river.
The key disseminated widely throughout the and leisure facilities.
In three key areas element of innovation related to the industry.
St George Wharf is also Berkeley has worked to ensure concrete frame superstructure of the a safety success story and a model sustainability principles are applied buildings.
Detailed site diaries of the for putting people first, achieving over to the construction phase.
construction process were kept and one million hours without a lost time data revealed that a large number of safety incident in 2001.
Building a team: On this site, St George hours were spent constructing the acted as the client, developer and vertical elements of the building, principal contractor, thereby controlling providing a strong driver to consider 16 www.
co. uk Berkeley Firsts Paragon site in Brentford is another example of innovative design and construction.
The project consists of 839 student en-suite rooms, 221 key worker apartments and a 2 12,100m university teaching facility.
Using modular design and construction the units come to site fully furnished, leaving only the mechanical and electrical connections to be completed.
This reduces waste, incorporates FSC certified timber and minimises working at height danger.
Creating partnerships: At St George Wharf, long-term relationships were developed with suppliers, giving St George security of control of its supply chain and guaranteeing standards of quality while delivering the suppliers business and profit stability.
By working closely with the supplier who won the contract to provide and install the concrete wall panel system and supply the balconies, St George was also able to incorporate drainhoppers, pipework and rainwater goods, waterproof membrane tiling and the spigots for the balustrades into the off-site fabrication process.
By encouraging the same supplier the challenges and forms of construction St George is at the forefront to invest in IT and training, St George are so different.
However, St George has of construction innovation.
now has an open-book pricing system been able to demonstrate continuous The industry recognises that enables them to plan their costs improvement by benchmarking its own St George for their more effectively.
product, comparing its out-turn results construction excellence from building to building.
From phase 1 and improved initiative Measuring our performance to phase 2, there was a 39% reduction Data that St George has collected from in construction time plus a 16% increase on delivering developments.
its own KPI systems has been fed into in productivity.
Paul Everall, Head of Buildings the Housing Forum demonstration Regulations Division, Office of the project.
It is often difficult to compare Deputy Prime Minister out-turn results with other residential developers building in greenfield sites as www.
co. uk 17 Detailed specification Attention to detail Preparing for a solar century Part of the Building Research Some of the big steps towards The increasing emphasis on the Establishments Environmental sustainability are taken during the provision of on-site renewable energy Assessment Method, EcoHomes planning design process, but equally in the planning process has led is an assessment criteria that rates important are the small steps that can be Berkeley to explore the feasibility the environmental qualities of new taken through the detailed specification of a range of technologies on its and renovated dwellings.
by independent experts, the scheme achieved planning permission, it works rewards developers who improve hard to achieve its design objectives the environmental performance and ensure that the projects implement of a project through good design, the standards set-out in the development rather than through high capital briefs.
Berkeley sets company-wide cost solutions.
EcoHomes standards on certain issues, while is designed to help tackle climate in other areas it seeks to gain change, resource use and impact information to understand the most on wildlife, balancing these issues appropriate sustainability solutions against the need to provide safe for particular projects.
One of the key and healthy homes and a high emerging sustainability standards quality of life.
is EcoHomes, which assesses a number of sustainability features within a development and rates the project as either pass, good, very good or excellent.
The process in action: Central to the detailed specification sunlighting and daylighting to maximise of the development is a commitment the opportunities for passive solar gain Ropetackle to deliver a project with an EcoHomes and 33 out of the 35 houses will have Excellent rating.
This is not supplementary heating provided an insignificant aim of the 976 by solar water-heating panels.
The developments assessed by BREEAM average Carbon Dioxide emissions are A new 2 since 2000 only 19 have achieved predicted to be 24.85 kg m yr. All an Excellent rating, which not only appliances will be A rated for energy dawn in encompasses environmental impact, efficiency.
Water supply is treated with but also helps to ensure a high quality the same level of care: lower of life for residents.
Such attention consumption taps and dual flush WCs housing to detail is just one of the many reasons were considered as part of the design, why Berkeley is well on its way towards while the average water consumption 3 Ropetackle, a Berkeley Homes achieving its goal for Ropetackle.
development in Shoreham-by-the-Sea, Each of the EcoHomes credits is the flagship scheme at the heart is gained through addressing a number Well-being: In addition to meeting of the Shoreham Maritime regeneration of sustainability impacts across EcoHomes criteria, the majority of project, spearheaded by the South East a variety of areas: dwellings are built as lifetime homes England Development Agency SEEDA.
and the homezone areas ensure ramps Ropetackle has a unique location, close Energy and water: All the houses are provided to aid accessibility.
to the coast, river and town, and in the development have been built Furthermore, all housing association Berkeley is creating a wide variety of to a high-energy performance, with units will be built with secure by new homes.
The scheme is an example some achieving Standard Assessment design standards.
The project is signed of truly sustainable development, and Procedure SAP ratings of 110. up to the Considerate Constructors in line with SEEDAs aims, Berkeley The average improvement in building Scheme and has sought to support the Homes is working to ensure a vibrant, envelope performance above building local economy through the sourcing mixed-use community.
The development of goods and the employing of design took into account aspecting, local labour.
co. uk At St James development in Worcester St George has received planning Park the Hamptons, Berkeley is permission for a fifty-storey tower as part incorporating 1,240 solar photovoltaic of the St George Wharf development, PV Sunslates into the tiled roof which is supported by sustainable of the central community building.
A wind generator The Sunslates convert sunlight into is planned to be fixed to the top of the electricity and the average number tower to provide power for the common of electricity units generated by the PV parts.
It is also planned that the heating system over a year is 14,408 kilowattand cooling systems for the whole hours.
That is enough electricity to make building will use the London aquifer as over 540,000 slices of toast or cook a constant thermal source.
The external more than 46,000 microwave meals.
envelope is a triple-walled, self-ventilated The installation of the PV panels has glass faade designed to high insulation been made possible through a 40% and thermal efficiency levels and acts grant from the Energy Savings Trust.
Materials: To ensure that the development makes reference to the surrounding historic street fabric 60- 70% of all materials used on the site come from within a 25 mile radius.
The scheme has been designed as a marine village to blend in with the other buildings in the locality by means of cedar cladding and render flintwork on the facades and gateway building, substation and bin stores.
To encourage the recycling of materials an on-site waste management scheme has been set up with waste being segregated at source and sent for recycling where appropriate.
To date, 50% of all waste produced has been recycled.
At Berkeley Homes Ropetackle development in Shoreham, 33 out of the 35 dwellings will incorporate solar panels.
The suntube converts sunlight into heat and uses that heat to raise the initial temperature of the hot water system.
co. uk 19 Detailed specification Transport An important area of technological development is that of transport as Berkeley moves further into urban regeneration.
For example, reducing the need to travel by locating homes and places of work and leisure closer to one another: encouraging the use of public transport by design: providing facilities and incentives to reduce car use: and reducing the environmental Below: Electric Green, a transport impacts of transport during service at St George Wharf, offers the construction and thereafter.
hire of electric cars to residents for short journeys around London.
Driving down environmental impacts Transport initiatives are in place across The Royal Arsenal site at Woolwich Cycle paths and storage facilities are the Group and its many developments.
is located between the River Thames being built into the development and They are as diverse as they are and Woolwich town centre.
The new consultation undertaken to implement widespread, and are already development has opened up this the Green Travel Plan envisaged by demonstrating their worth across previously publicly inaccessible area and Leeds City Council.
This will require those developments where they have integrated it with its wider environment.
each tenant who employs 50 or more been put into practice: New transport and pedestrian routes people to show how they will encourage have linked the Thames with the town, their employees to travel to work by Electric Green is a transport service and a new park and walkway are being public transport, foot, cycle, or car-share.
at St George Wharf that offers the constructed.
A new pier has been built hire of electric cars on a daily or hourly and is now a major addition to the citys basis.
The cars are designed for short waterside resources.
journey use in London and the service will encourage residents to be energyPedestrian access to the Clarence efficient and environmentally friendly.
Dock development, in Leeds, is being Added benefits include free parking improved by the construction of a new in central London and exemption from bridge across the Aire and Calder the congestion charge.
The compact Navigation, and by lifting two bridges cars fit into small spaces making across Clarence Dock.
These bridges Right: Gunwharf Quays, the BURA parking both easy and convenient.
will also improve public access to the award-winning regeneration scheme in waterway and improve the Pennine Way Portsmouth, is a high-quality mixed-use A new railway station on the West footpath alongside the Aire and Calder development situated adjacent to the London Line at Imperial Wharf is to Navigation making it more accessible citys harbour and encompasses an be built.
co. uk 21 Sales & marketing Greener homes Berkeley is always striving to improve marketing suites and site hoardings Carbon Dioxide emmissions the quality of the homes it provides and through its corporate and sales from Berkeleys fixed offices 2 for its customers and was interested literature.
Some examples of this are kgs of C0 per m 2 to read new research published last year highlighted here.
by the Commission for Architecture and the Built Environment, HBOS plc 95.8 and the World Wildlife Fund.
This revealed that 87% of homebuyers want to know how their homes rate in terms of environmental sustainability.
So, while the demand for sustainable homes may 59.7 not yet be explicit, Berkeley knows that its customers want to live in affordable and accessible homes with good quality public realms and access to a wide range of work and leisure opportunities.
Berkeley has, therefore, begun to ensure that its commitment to sustainability is effectively communicated to its 2004 05 customers through its sales and Below: Bromyard Avenue, Acton.
2001 02 CarbonNeutral Bromyard Avenue, As a refurbishment project, over 90% Acton of the building lifecycle CO2 will be Berkeley Homes has taken steps generated from the residents once to tackle the climate change impacts they move into the building.
As part of its Bromyard Avenue development of its programme, Berkeley Homes by making it CarbonNeutral.
is connecting all new residents to a green energy provider, and the Climate change company Future Forests contract is now out for tender.
The has managed the initiative.
As a first step, 518 homes at Bromyard Avenue it involved calculating the CO2 created connected in this way represents during construction and then identifying around a 1% uplift in the total number opportunities to reduce emissions.
of UK homes currently signed to green As a consequence, Berkeley Homes energy and could save around 20,000 switched the site to green energy and tonnes of CO2.
instantly reduced CO2 associated with the development by 1,350 tonnes 18% of total emissions.
Remaining emissions have been offset through carbon credits from sustainable forestry, in Bedfordshire, and renewable energy projects around the world, meaning that the development makes a zero net contribution to Carbon Dioxide emissions and is CarbonNeutral.
co. uk Imperial Wharf: Wildlife brochure Ropetackle: Information on Green Ropetackle: A specific area of the Energy providers is included in the marketing suite was set for sustainability Hand Over Packs.
issues including the SEEDA Mission Statement for Sustainability on the Site.
co. uk 23 Workforce Equal opportunities Each division has its own dedicated development programme is monitored Berkeleys Equal Opportunities Policy Health and Safety management team.
strives to ensure that all employees, All of our staff receive a comprehensive potential employees, and other safety management training programme, Berkeleys commitment to training individuals receive equal treatment the foundation of which is the five-day extends beyond its workforce, an including access to employment, training CITB Site Managers course.
Berkeley example of which is the Construction and opportunity for promotion regardless supports the CSCS registration scheme Careers in Action programme.
of their age, colour, disability, ethnic or and is progressively implementing the Pioneered by Greenwich Education national origin, marital status, nationality, CSCS card scheme for site operatives.
Business Partnership and Berkeley religion, race, sex or sexuality.
For Homes at the Royal Arsenal in Woolwich, example, St George contributed to the This year, each operating division has the scheme aims to raise awareness EQUAL Programme, a European Initiative reviewed and updated their operating in local schools of the employment which aims to test and promote new procedures, including supply chain opportunities in the construction means of combating all forms of assessments, site glove policy and industry and the underlying training discrimination and inequalities in the a working at height protocol.
To date over 120 people from the introduction of new regulations some 60 pupils from two schools have have been helped through this regarding work at height, a minimum attended the site activities.
Of these 61% have come standard was agreed by the Health and from ethnic minority groups, 26% were Safety Working Group, in liaison with Communication women and 10% were older workers.
This standard has been Berkeleys policy of operating through implemented across all sites by all autonomous subsidiaries has ensured Occupational Health & Safety divisions and forms the basis of the close consultation with employees at all Every Berkeley site implements full future work at height protocol across times on matters likely to affect their health and safety management systems the Group.
By means of regular meetings, compliant with the Health and Safety each company keeps employees Executives Guidance, HS G 65 on all Training & Development informed about their division, and of the its sites, with zero-tolerance for nonBerkeley is determined to ensure that group as a whole.
These standards are audited all its employees receive appropriate committed to the continuation and and reported on to the main Board.
Each divisions training and strengthening of communication lines Investing in the industrys future Top right: A school visit in action at the Royal Arsenal, Woolwich.
Right: Training and development in action.
co. uk 11.4 7.4 with all of its employees.
Berkeley has an Intranet to which all employees have access.
Individual divisions have their own areas on the Intranet and also use other forms of communication such as employee newsletters.
Berkeley is represented on a number of national committees, including The Construction Industry Advisory Committee.
Berkeley Community Villages, for example, is represented on the Executive Committee of the South East Water resources forum, which comprises representatives from the water authorities, environment agencies and the South East Development Agency SEEDA.
Construction in progress at the Royal Arsenal site.
RIDDOR incident rate per 1,000 employees on all sites Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2001 02 2004 05 www.
co. uk 25 Target progress 2004 05 2004 Targets for the Group Progress Report Continue the proactive dialogue with investors and retain our Berkeley continues to be listed in the FTSE4Good.
Maintain the SWG structure including monitoring the The SWG continues to meet on a quarterly basis and implementation of the divisions sustainability strategies and to monitor progress to the companys targets and KPIs.
In 2004 05, two additional meetings were organised to address specific issues in more detail.
Provide leadership on sustainability issues through the Heads Berkeley initiated Heads of Divisions meetings concerning of Divisions meetings.
Develop a Sustainability Checklist to be incorporated in the This checklist has been completed and is included as part divisions Land Risk Assessment Process.
of the risk management process prior to the acquisition of all new sites.
Review Best Practice in Community Engagement for A briefing has been provided to the divisions concerning major projects.
Review the divisions sustainability induction and training Copies of divisions sustainability induction materials have materials with a view to sharing good practice.
been distributed to all of the divisions for their review.
Monitor the percentage of sites using the companys new Each division has implemented the waste management tool waste management tool.
on at least two major projects.
Monitor the implementation of the companys new Monitoring of compliance with the timber policy has begun, timber policy.
with selected divisions writing to their timber suppliers and requesting information concerning timber sourcing.
Publish monthly sustainability topics on the Intranet.
Sustainability topics are posted on the Intranet on a bi-monthly basis.
They are intended for all employees and this less frequent posting ensures that interest is maintained.
Berkeley continues to investigate ways to improve the system.
Publish five good practice briefing notes on current Bespoke briefing notes have been provided to the divisions sustainability issues for the SWG.
concerning The Mayoral Strategies, The Energy Strategy, and Community Engagement.
These have been supplemented with good practice guidance published by industry bodies and other organisations.
Issue a Sustainability Report for the year 2004 05 and report Berkeley remains committed to reporting the results of its on progress towards these targets.
sustainability programme on an annual basis and to supplement this with additional reporting in its annual report & accounts and on its website.
Further development of the Sustainability Performance The SPMT has been piloted and then reviewed with Berkeleys Management Tool SPMT.
The tool has been further developed and will be implemented during 2005 06.
co. uk Water consumption in our fixed offices 3 m employee 22.6 14.4 2001 02 2004 05 2004 Targets for the Divisions Progress Report Continue to implement the divisional sustainability strategies All of the divisions have made significant progress in the and report progress to the SWG each quarter.
development of their strategies and progress has been reported to the SWG each quarter.
Record SAP ratings according to different dwelling types with SAP ratings have been recorded in relation to new apartments, a view to setting improvement targets for each type.
new houses and refurbished apartments.
Berkeley has reported its performance in relation to these ratings, but will not be setting any targets until the review of the SAP ratings has been implemented.
Carbon Index data will also be collected to assist in eventual target-setting in this area.
Gather data on the performance of all those dwellings Berkeley is currently gathering data on the number assessed using the EcoHome methodology with a view of dwellings assessed using the EcoHomes standard.
Research is currently underway within certain divisions to understand the technical implications of setting targets to achieve specific ratings.
Continue to ensure that all dwellings are fitted with white This is now included in all standard specifications and some goods with energy efficiency rating of B or above.
divisions have made a commitment to specify only A rated appliances fridge freezers and washing machines.
Explore the feasibility of integrating renewable energy With the introduction of the sustainable development on major projects.
requirement in the London Plan and the Mayoral Energy Strategy, this is now a key consideration on all new major projects within all divisions affected.
Included within this report are two examples of the successful integration of renewable technology into our developments.
Explore the feasibility of integrating SUDs on all major projects.
SUDs have now been implemented at a number of Berkeleys major projects.
Explore the feasibility of integrating car clubs on all Car clubs have now been implemented at a number of our major projects.
Berkeley is monitoring their performance to ensure that it communicates best practice across the Group.
Ensure that all landscape strategies for major projects Berkeley instructs its landscape consultants to include incorporate a consideration of the opportunities to opportunities to enhance biodiversity in any strategies that enhance biodiversity.
Continue to ensure that major projects participate in the All major projects participate in the scheme where Considerate Constructors Scheme where it is operational.
Continue to monitor the percentage of local labour employed Local labour is monitored in line with local planning on all major projects.
Develop an on-site waste management programme to be A review of on-site waste management was undertaken built into the sub-contractors work plan.
Implementing the plans following the nine steps recommended by the DTIs voluntary code of conduct has now been agreed by the divisions.
co. uk 27 Berkeley  targets 2005 06 This year, Berkeley has decided to focus EcoHomes Complete the pilot carbon offsetting its targets on a number of priority areas.
Increase the number of dwellings programme at Bromyard Avenue, A focus on urban regeneration means certified using the EcoHomes rating Acton, and draft a case study that in many cases Berkeley is methodology.
to be distributed to other divisions.
implementing good or best practice Increase the number of dwellings Complete the installation of photovoltaic in relation to the socio-economic certified to EcoHomes rating of Good tiles at the Hamptons and solar water impacts of its developments.
heating at Ropetackle and draft case coming year Berkeley has decided studies to be distributed to to place greater focus on its Energy other divisions.
Review detailed specifications with a view to improving the energy Waste efficiency of Berkeleys homes.
Ensure all new sites are implementing Complete Energy Demand Site Waste Management Plans Assessments for all new major projects, in accordance with the DTIs Voluntary to include an assessment of the Code of Good Practice.
Expand waste data gathering Increase the number of dwellings that to all major projects.
are connected to renewable energy tariffs by default.
Sustainability Key Performance Average number of 7 yard Indicators SKPI skips removed per dwelling Berkeleys Sustainability KPIs are a vital On this basis, Berkeley has retained aspect of its sustainability strategy the majority of its existing indicators, 6.7 as they enable it to assess its success but has amended and dropped some.
4.8 3.7 4.7 in addressing some of its key Berkeley has also adopted some new impact areas.
indicators and will be reporting against these next year.
Berkeley has been gathering data against these Sustainability KPIs since The data set out here shows Berkeleys 01 02 02 03 03 04 04 05 2002.
This year, Berkeley performance against its existing SKPIs: The management of waste continues to be a key commissioned a detailed review of priority within Berkeleys sustainability programme.
these KPIs themselves, comparing The data is the aggregated averages The trend shows that Berkeley has reduced its waste by 29% between 2001 02 and 2004 05.
This year them with those used by other for the following divisions Berkeley Berkeley has undertaken a review of waste management practices see page 16 for more details housebuilders, good practice Homes plc, Crosby Group, St George and following Berkeleys SKPI review, it will be piloting standards and indicators developed plc, and St James Group.
a new project specific SKPI over the next year.
by industry bodies and the The figures for the financial year 2001 02 Average percentage of dwellings Government.
Berkeley also took into are estimates based upon six months built on brownfield land account how successful its indicators data from Q3 and Q4 of that year.
have been in driving improvements in The red line on the graph shows the 98 96 98 98 performance and how practical it has trend over the past four years.
been to gather and analyse the data.
01 02 02 03 03 04 04 05 Berkeleys focus on the regeneration of redundant land in major cities across the UK means that it has consistently achieved a performance of over 95% against this SKPI, significantly exceeding the Government target of 60%.
co. uk Increase the proportion of waste In addition to these targets, Berkeley Communications recycled on those major projects with remains committed to developing Ensure the divisions have appropriate Sustainabilityis data gathering already in place.
