Returns and IRRs an explanation Our aim is to achieve market-beating returns by generating cash to cash vintage year IRRs of 20% for Buyouts and Growth Capital and 35% for Venture Capital What is an IRR measure?
Why does 3i track the performance of How does 3is total return The Internal Rate of Return IRR is the vintage years?
equate to the IRR measures?
interim return earned by 3i investing in an Looking at the performance of a vintage Table 1 on page 20, shows how asset from the date of initial investment up enables us to asses the returns we are until a particular point in time.
It is calculated making on pools of assets invested during a 3is total return is made up.
as the annualised effective compound rate of vintage year.
It gives a measure of the Total return is calculated as a return, using monthly cash flows, generated performance of each years investment activity from the asset.
For assets that have yet to be in isolation.
gross portfolio return plus other sold, and therefore have not generated a final It also allows us to assess the return fee income, less costs and net cash inflow from sale proceeds, the asset generated from assets over the length of time interest payable.
Total return can value at the date of calculation of the IRR is we hold them, rather than just looking at the be expressed as a quantum used as the terminal cash flow.
An IRR can performance between the beginning and end ie 512 million for the year to apply to a single asset or a pool of assets of a financial year, which is shown in our 31 March 2005 or as a eg all new investments made in financial year yearly total return statement.
The annual total 2003 can be pooled to calculate an IRR for return analysis has limitations as a measure of percentage of opening vintage year 2003. longer-term performance as it is only a shareholders funds ie 15.9% An IRR calculated using the current representation of how the assets have for the year to 31 March 2005. value of the asset as the terminal cash flow is performed in one financial year and is heavily called a Fund IRR.
A Cash to Cash IRR does influenced by the valuation of the asset at the Gross portfolio return is made up not include any terminal value for unsold beginning of the year and the end.
It does not of the income and value movement assets and is a pure, more simple measure show the evolution of how a vintage year is both realised and unrealised of cash invested compared to cash returned performing over time.
as it does not include any judgmental To achieve this longer-term measure asset valuation for the unsold assets.
of performance over time, the IRR is the Costs include expenses and standard measure used across the Private carried interest payable.
What is a vintage and a vintage year?
A vintage is a collection of assets in which 3i The elements that make up the makes its first investment during a defined gross portfolio return are the period of time.
The most common time period same constituents used in an measured in the Private Equity industry is a IRR calculation.
A vintage year at 3i includes all new investments made within our financial year, Gross portfolio return stated as ie vintage year 2005 covers new investments a percentage of opening portfolio made from 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2005. value will equate to an IRR measure over time.
So, if 3i achieves 20% gross portfolio returns each year, the long-term IRR will also move to 20%.
What is total shareholder return?
Total shareholder return is the change in share price over a period plus dividends reinvested.
3i Report and accounts 2005 78 What IRR measures do 3i use to assess Chart 1 IRR evolution the performance of a vintage?
50 3i equity value uplift 3i has published target Cash to Cash IRRs 3i equity cost 35 for each business line.
These targets are 20% 30 3i shareholder loan for Buyouts and Growth Capital and 35% for Venture Capital.
25 25 25 25 A Cash to Cash IRR cannot be 75 75 75 75 meaningfully used to measure the performance of a vintage until the majority of assets in that vintage are realised.
Therefore, 3i monitors the progress of each vintage and the evolution of the IRR using a combination of the Fund IRRs and the extent to which a Case A Year 0 Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 vintage is realised, to assess the interim Investment 100 performance.
Case A, depicted in Chart 1, Yield 6.5 6.5 6.5 is an example to show the interim Cash to Value at year end 130 135 Cash IRR of an asset and clearly indicates Sale proceeds 150 why, during the holding period of an asset, Fund IRR 0% 36% 22% 20% the Fund IRR gives a more appropriate measure of performance.
Cash to Cash IRR 100% 94% 71% 20% Volatility, the portfolio effect and the Tracking our progress holding period To monitor a vintage year we use a The published target IRRs are for each combination of Fund IRRs and money business line in aggregate.
It does not mean multiples.
The Fund IRR to give a measure that the IRR for each asset in those business of performance and the money multiple to lines will achieve the target IRRs individually.
show how much cash has been returned There will always be a range of IRRs achieved compared to cost eg Case A 1.7x so on each of the individual assets in each that we can assess the extent to which vintage year.
However, when assets are that performance is locked-in.
pooled together, the portfolio effect will reduce this overall volatility in each vintage year.
The range of volatility we expect in any one given vintage year is -10% for Buyouts, -7% for Growth Capital and -20% for Venture Capital.
Taking a longer period say five years, we expect the volatility to average out at - 5% for Buyouts, - 3% for Growth Capital and - 10% for Venture Capital.
A 3i vintage year is made up of many assets.
All will have their own individual cash flows and different timings of when value uplift occurs and holding periods.
We believe that after three years the maturity of a vintage will have developed enough for the Fund IRR to give a good indication of the final outcome.
By seven years most vintage years will be largely realised.
