NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES A summary of the principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
a Basis of accounting The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention, modied to include the revaluation of investments.
The accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and the AITCs Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies issued in 2005.
Comparatives have been restated following the adoption of FRS 21 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Measurement and Note 19 provides an explanation of the restatements.
b Investments The Companys investments have been categorised as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Quoted investments are valued at their fair value which is represented by the bid price.
Where trading in the securities of an investee company is suspended, the investment is valued at the Boards estimate of its net realisable value.
As investments have been categorised as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included in the capital return for the period and transaction costs on acquisition or disposal of a security are expensed to the Capital Reserve-realised.
Purchases and sales of investments are accounted for on trade date.
c Income Dividends receivable on quoted equity shares are brought into account on the ex-dividend date.
Dividend income is shown excluding any related tax credit.
Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash, the amount of the cash dividend is recognised as income.
Other income is accounted for on an accruals basis.
expenses which are incidental to the acquisition and disposal of an investment are charged to capital: and.
 of the value of the investments can be demonstrated.
In this respect the investment management fee has been allocated 62.5% to capital reserve-realised and 37.5% to revenue reserve, in line with the Boards expected long-term split of returns, in the form of capital gains and income respectively, from the investment portfolio of the Company.
e Finance costs Finance costs are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Finance costs of debt, insofar as they relate to the nancing of the Companys investments or to nancing activities aimed at maintaining or enhancing the value of the Companys investments, are allocated 62.5% to capital reserve-realised and 37.5% to revenue account, in line with the Boards expected long-term split of returns, in the form of capital gains and income respectively, from the investment portfolio of the Company.
