NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING  held at 14 Melville Street, Edinburgh on 1 March 2006 at 18:15 for the following purposes: ORDINARY BUSINESS To consider and, if thought t, pass the following Ordinary Resolutions: 1.
That the Report and Accounts for the year to 31 December 2005 be adopted.
That the payment of the final dividend of 7.85p per Ordinary Share be approved.
That Mr D R Shaw be re-elected as a Director.
That Mr H N Buchan be re-elected as a Director.
That Mr M L A Chiappelli be re-elected as a Director.
That Mr J E G Cran be re-elected as a Director.
That Prof P R Marsh be re-elected as a Director.
That Dr W S Nimmo be re-elected as a Director.
That the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2005 be approved.
That Ernst & Young LLP be re-appointed as Auditors and that the Directors be authorised to determine their remuneration.
SPECIAL BUSINESS To consider and, if thought t, pass the following Special Resolutions: 11.
That pursuant to and in accordance with its Articles of Association, the Company be and it is hereby authorised in accordance with section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act of Ordinary Shares of 1p each in the capital of the Company Shares, provided that: a the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the issued share capital of the Company on the date on which this resolution is passed: b the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be 1p being the nominal value of a Share: c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Share shall be 5% above the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the Shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 31 July 2007 or, if earlier, at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2007, save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase Shares under such authority which will or might be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
That the Articles of Association of the Company be and hereby are amended by the deletion of Article 174 and the replacement thereof with the following: 174. indemnification of Ofcers A Subject to the provisions of the Act, but without prejudice to any indemnity to which the person concerned may otherwise by entitled, every Director or other officer of the Company other than any person whether an officer or not engaged by the Company as Auditor shall be indemnified out of theassets , default, breachof duty or breach of trust in relation to the affairs of the Company, provided that this Article 174 A shall be deemed not to provide for, or entitle any such person to, indemnification to the extent that it would cause this Article 174 A, or any element of it, to be treated as void under the Act.
The indemnity shall not apply to any liability to the extent that it is recovered from another person.
B Subject to the provisions of the Statutes, the Auditors shall be indemnified out of the assets of the Company against all costs, charges, expenses, losses or liabilities which he may sustain or incur in or about the execution of the duties of his ofce or otherwise in relation thereto including any liability incurred by him in defending any proceedings, whether civil or criminal, in which judgement is given in his favour or in which he is acquitted or in connection with any application under section 727 of the Act in which relief is granted to him by the Court.
By Order of the Board Aberforth Partners LLP, Secretaries 14 Melville Street, Edinburgh EH3 7NS 19 January 2006 Printed bygreenaways, a member of theormolu group.
E160840 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Thenaldividend, ifapproved, willbe paidon7  theRegisterat10 February2006.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote at this meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote on his her behalf.
Such a proxy need not also be a member of the Company.
A Form of Proxy for use by Shareholders is enclosed.
Completion of the Form of Proxy will not prevent a Shareholder from attending the meeting and voting in person.
To register your vote electronically, log on to the registrars web site at www.
com and follow the instructions on screen.
You will require your investor code.
CREST users should note they can lodge their proxy votes for the meeting through the CREST proxy voting system.
For further instructions users should refer to the CREST User Manual.
Any CREST sponsored members should contact their CREST sponsor.
Copies of the existing Articles of Association of the Company and the proposed revised Articles of Association will be available for inspection during normal business hours on any day Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted until the close of the Annual General Meeting at the registered ofce of the Company, 14 Melville Street, Edinburgh EH3 7NS.
No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
