Significant accounting policies Estimation techniques used in calculation of a Revenue recognition claims provisions: Estimation techniques are used in the Premiums, ancillary income and profit calculation of the provisions for claims commission outstanding, which represents a projection of Premiums relating to insurance contracts are the ultimate cost of settling claims that have recognised as revenue proportionally over the occurred prior to the balance sheet date and period of cover.
remain unsettled at the balance sheet date.
Income earned on the sale of ancillary products The key area where these techniques are used and income from policies paid by instalments is relates to the ultimate cost of reported claims.
credited to the income statement over the A secondary area relates to the emergence of period matching the Groups obligations to claims that occurred prior to the balance sheet provide services.
Where the Group has no date, but had not been reported at that date.
remaining contractual obligations, the income is recognised immediately.
An allowance is made The estimates of the ultimate cost of reported for expected cancellations where the customer claims are based on the setting of claim may be entitled to a refund of ancillary provisions on a case-by-case basis, for all but amounts charged.
Under some of the co-insurance and The sum of these provisions are compared with reinsurance contracts under which motor projected ultimate costs using a variety of premiums are shared or ceded, profit different projection techniques including commission may be earned on a particular year incurred and paid chain ladder and an average of account, which is usually subject to cost of claim approach to allow an actuarial performance criteria such as loss ratios and assessment of their likely accuracy and to expense ratios.
The commission is dependent include allowance for unreported claims.
on the ultimate outcome of any year, with commission being recognised based on loss The most significant sensitivity in the use of and expense ratios used in the preparation of the projection techniques arises from any the financial statements.
future step change in claims costs, which would cause future claim cost inflation to Income is allocated to profit commission in the deviate from historic trends.
This is most likely income statement when the right to to arise from a change in the regulatory or consideration is achieved, and is capable of judicial regime that leads to an increase in reliable measurement.
awards or legal costs for bodily injury claims that is significantly above or below the Revenue from Gladiator Commercial and historical trend.
com Commission from these activities is credited to The claims provisions are subject to independent income on the sale of the underlying insurance review by the Groups actuarial advisors.
policy having regard to the profile of services provided.
Investment income Investment income from financial assets comprises interest income and net gains both realised and unrealised on financial assets classified as fair value through profit and loss.
