Significant accounting policies Estimation techniques used in calculation of a Revenue recognition claims provisions: Estimation techniques are used in the Premiums, ancillary income and profit calculation of the provisions for claims commission outstanding, which represents a projection of Premiums relating to insurance contracts are the ultimate cost of settling claims that have recognised as revenue proportionally over the occurred prior to the balance sheet date and period of cover.
remain unsettled at the balance sheet date.
Income earned on the sale of ancillary products The key area where these techniques are used and income from policies paid by instalments is relates to the ultimate cost of reported claims.
credited to the income statement over the A secondary area relates to the emergence of period matching the Groups obligations to claims that occurred prior to the balance sheet provide services.
Where the Group has no date, but had not been reported at that date.
remaining contractual obligations, the income is recognised immediately.
An allowance is made The estimates of the ultimate cost of reported for expected cancellations where the customer claims are based on the setting of claim may be entitled to a refund of ancillary provisions on a case-by-case basis, for all but amounts charged.
Under some of the co-insurance and The sum of these provisions are compared with reinsurance contracts under which motor projected ultimate costs using a variety of premiums are shared or ceded, profit different projection techniques including commission may be earned on a particular year incurred and paid chain ladder and an average of account, which is usually subject to cost of claim approach to allow an actuarial performance criteria such as loss ratios and assessment of their likely accuracy and to expense ratios.
The commission is dependent include allowance for unreported claims.
on the ultimate outcome of any year, with commission being recognised based on loss The most significant sensitivity in the use of and expense ratios used in the preparation of the projection techniques arises from any the financial statements.
future step change in claims costs, which would cause future claim cost inflation to Income is allocated to profit commission in the deviate from historic trends.
This is most likely income statement when the right to to arise from a change in the regulatory or consideration is achieved, and is capable of judicial regime that leads to an increase in reliable measurement.
awards or legal costs for bodily injury claims that is significantly above or below the Revenue from Gladiator Commercial and historical trend.
com Commission from these activities is credited to The claims provisions are subject to independent income on the sale of the underlying insurance review by the Groups actuarial advisors.
policy having regard to the profile of services provided.
Investment income Investment income from financial assets comprises interest income and net gains both realised and unrealised on financial assets classified as fair value through profit and loss.
ADMIRAL GROUP plc 53 b Insurance contracts and reinsurance assets The benefits to which the Group is entitled under these contracts are held as reinsurance assets.
Premium The proportion of premium receivable on in-force The Group assesses its reinsurance assets for policies relating to unexpired risks is reported in impairment on a regular basis, and in detail every insurance contract liabilities and reinsurance six months.
If there is objective evidence that assets as the unearned premium provision gross the asset is impaired, then the carrying value will and reinsurers share respectively.
be written down to its recoverable amount.
Claims c Intangible assets Claims and claims handling expenses are charged Goodwill as incurred, based on the estimated direct and All business combinations are accounted for indirect costs of settling all liabilities arising on using the purchase method.
Goodwill has been events occurring up to the balance sheet date.
recognised in acquisitions of subsidiaries, and represents the difference between the cost of The provision for claims outstanding comprises the acquisition and the fair value of the net provisions for the estimated cost of settling all identifiable assets acquired.
claims incurred but unpaid at the balance sheet date, whether reported or not.
The classification and accounting treatment of Anticipated reinsurance recoveries are acquisitions occurring before 1 January 2004 disclosed separately as assets.
have not been reconsidered in preparing the Groups opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 January Whilst the Directors consider that the gross 2004 due to the exemption available in IFRS 1 provisions for claims and the related reinsurance First Time Adoption.
recoveries are fairly stated on the basis of the information currently available to them, the In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January ultimate liability will vary as a result of subsequent 2004, goodwill is included at the transition information and events and may result in date on the basis of its deemed cost, which significant adjustments to the amounts provided.
represents the amount recorded under UK GAAP, which was tested for impairment at the Adjustments to the amounts of claims provisions transition date.
On transition, amortisation of established in prior years are reflected in the goodwill has ceased as required by IFRS 1. income statement for the period in which the adjustments are made and disclosed separately Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated if material.
The methods used, and the estimates impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash made, are reviewed regularly.
generating units CGUs according to business segment and is reviewed annually for impairment.
Provision for unexpired risks is made where necessary for the estimated amount required Impairment of goodwill over and above unearned premiums to meet The annual impairment review involves future claims and related expenses.
comparing the carrying amount to the estimated recoverable amount by allocating the goodwill Reinsurance assets to CGUs and recognising an impairment loss if Contracts entered into by the Group with the recoverable amount is lower.
Impairment reinsurers under which the Group is losses are recognised through the income compensated for losses on the insurance statement and are not subsequently reversed.
contracts issued by the Group are classified as reinsurance contracts.
A contract is only The recoverable amount is the greater of the accounted for as an insurance or reinsurance net realisable value and the value in use of the contract where there is material risk transfer CGU.
between the insured and the insurer.
54 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The value in use calculations use cash flow in use.
Impairment losses are recognised projections based on financial budgets through the income statement.
approved by management covering a three year period.
Cash flows beyond this period are e Leased assets considered, but not included in the calculation.
The rental costs relating to assets held under operating leases are charged to the income Deferred acquisition costs statement on a straight-line basis over the life Acquisition costs comprise all direct and of the lease.
indirect costs arising from the conclusion of insurance contracts.
Deferred acquisition costs Leases under the terms of which the Group represent the proportion of acquisition costs assumes substantially all of the risks and incurred that corresponds to the unearned rewards of ownership are classed as finance premium provision at the balance sheet date.
Assets acquired under finance leases are This balance is held as an intangible asset.
included in property, plant and equipment at fair value on acquisition and are depreciated in Software the same manner as equivalent owned assets.
Purchased software is recognised as an Finance lease and hire purchase obligations are intangible asset and amortised over its included in creditors, and the finance costs are expected useful life generally between two spread over the periods of the agreements and four years.
The carrying value is reviewed based on the net amount outstanding.
every six months for evidence of impairment, with the value being written down if any f Financial assets investments and impairment exists.
Impairment may be reversed receivables if conditions subsequently improve.
Financial assets are classified according to the purpose for which they were acquired.
The d Property, plant and equipment and Groups investments in quoted fixed income depreciation and other debt securities are classified as All property, plant and equipment is stated at financial assets at fair value through profit or cost less accumulated depreciation.
is calculated using the straight-line method to write off the cost less residual values of the Financial assets classified at fair value through assets over their useful economic lives.
These profit or loss are initially recorded at cost and useful economic lives are as follows: subsequently carried at fair value based on closing bid prices on the balance sheet date, or Motor vehicles 4 years the last trading day before the balance sheet Fixtures, fittings and equipment 4 years date with changes in the fair value of these Computer equipment 2 to 4 years investments being recognised through the Improvements to short 4 years income statement.
leasehold properties Trade and other receivables are stated at their Impairment of property, plant nominal amount discounted if material unless and equipment they are impaired.
Impairment losses are In the case of property, plant and equipment, recognised through the income statement.
carrying values are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there are any g Loans and borrowings indications of impairment.
If any such Interest bearing loans and borrowings are indications exist, the assets recoverable recognised initially at fair value less attributable amount is estimated and compared to the transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial carrying value.
The carrying value is the higher recognition, interest bearing loans and of the net realisable value and the assets value borrowings are stated at amortised cost with ADMIRAL GROUP plc 55 any difference between cost and redemption i Taxation value being recognised in the income statement Income tax on the profit or loss for the periods over the life of the borrowings on an effective presented comprises current and deferred tax.
Current tax h Employee benefits Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates in Pensions effect at the balance sheet date, and includes The Group contributes to a number of defined any adjustment to tax payable in respect of contribution personal pension plans for its previous periods.
The contributions payable to these schemes are charged in the accounting period Deferred tax to which they relate.
Deferred tax is provided in full using the balance sheet liability method, providing for Employee share schemes temporary differences arising between the The Group operates a number of equity settled carrying amount of assets and liabilities for compensation schemes for its employees.
For accounting purposes, and the amounts used for schemes commencing 1 January 2004 and after, taxation purposes.
the fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of free shares under A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the the schemes is recognised as an expense, with a extent that it is probable that future taxable corresponding increase in equity.
profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
The total charge expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the free shares granted excluding the impact of non-market vesting conditions.
Nonmarket conditions such as profitability targets as well as staff attrition rates are included in assumptions over the number of free shares to vest under the applicable scheme.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its assumptions on the number of shares to be granted with the impact of any change in the assumptions recognised through income.
Prior to 2005, only one equity based compensation scheme had been operated the Employee Share Ownership Trust or ESOT.
All benefits due under this scheme were settled during 2004 at the time of the Companys flotation on the London Stock Exchange.
No further benefits will accrue.
In accordance with the exemption available under IFRS 1, the transactions relating to this scheme have not been restated in accordance with IFRS 2 Share Based Payment.
Refer to note 26 for further details on share schemes.
