ADMIRAL GROUP plc 79 Parent Company accounting policies The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the financial statements: 1.
Basis of preparation The Admiral Group plc Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the provisions of Section 226 of, and Schedule 4 to, the Companies Act 1985.
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the profit and loss account of the Parent Company is not presented.
Under FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements the Company is exempt from having to present a cash flow statement on the grounds that its cash flows are included in the Groups published consolidated financial statements.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8 Related Party Transactions not to disclose transactions or balances with its 90% or more owned subsidiary undertakings on the basis that the consolidated accounts are publicly available.
The 2004 comparative figures have been restated to take account of changes resulting from FRS 21 Events after the balance sheet date, which require dividends to be recorded as a liability only when the distribution is approved.
The adjustment has the effect of reducing creditors due within one year by 24.0m being the final dividend declared in 2004, but not approved until 2005 and increasing retained earnings by 24.0m.
Investments Investments in subsidiary undertakings are valued at cost less any provision for impairment in value.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable.
They are regarded as recoverable to the extent that, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be sufficient taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
