ADMIRAL GROUP plc 51 The financial statements are prepared on the Notes to the financial statements historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of financial assets classified as at fair value 1.
General information and basis of through profit or loss.
preparation Admiral Group plc is a Company incorporated The preparation of financial statements in in England and Wales.
Its registered office is at conformity with IFRS requires management to Capital Tower, Greyfriars Road, Cardiff CF10 3AZ make judgements, estimates and assumptions and its shares are listed on the London Stock that affect the application of policies and Exchange.
reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and The financial statements comprise the results associated assumptions are based on historical and balances of the Company and its experience and various other factors that are subsidiaries the Group for the two years believed to be reasonable under the ended 31 December 2004 and 2005.
The circumstances, the results of which form the financial statements of the Companys basis of making the judgements about carrying subsidiaries are consolidated in the Group values of assets and liabilities that are not financial statements.
The Company controls readily apparent from other sources.
100% of the voting share capital of all its subsidiaries.
In accordance with IAS 24, The estimates and underlying assumptions are transactions or balances between Group reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to companies that have been eliminated on accounting estimates are recognised in the year consolidation are not reported as related party in which the estimate is reviewed if this revision transactions.
affects only that year, or in the year of the revision and future years if the revision affects The consolidated financial statements have both current and future years.
been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial An explanation of the impact of the transition Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the to IFRS is set out in note 4.
This includes European Union EU.
These are the Groups detailed reconciliations of the following: first consolidated financial statements under profit for the year ended 31 December 2004 IFRS and IFRS 1 First Time Adoption has been under previous GAAP to the comparative applied.
The Company has elected to prepare figures stated in the consolidated income its Parent Company financial statements in statement above reported under IFRS accordance with UK GAAP: these are presented later in this report.
equity as at 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2004 from previous GAAP to the The Group has applied all IFRS and comparatives included in the consolidated interpretations adopted by the EU at 31 balance sheet above reported under IFRS December 2005, including all amendments to extant standards that are not effective until later The Group is managed as one operation accounting periods.
In particular, the Group has involving the sale and administration of private early adopted the amendments to IAS 39: The motor insurance and related products and is Fair Value Option in these financial statements.
An explanation of how the transition to adopted IFRS has affected the financial performance and cash flows of the Company is set out in note 4.
