84 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Special Business Meeting of Admiral Group plc will be held on To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the Thursday 18 May at 2.00pm at The Celtic following resolution which will be proposed as Manor Hotel, Coldra Woods, Newport, South an Ordinary Resolution: Wales, NP18 1HQ.
That the Directors be generally and Ordinary Business unconditionally authorised pursuant to 1.
To receive the reports of the Directors and Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the the audited accounts of the Company for Act to exercise all the powers of the the year ended 31 December 2005.
Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of that section up to an 2.
To approve the Directors remuneration aggregate nominal amount of 86,000 report set out on pages 33 to 36 for the year provided that this authority shall expire ended 31 December 2005. unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting 3.
To declare a final dividend on the ordinary 15 months after the date of the passing of shares of the Company for the year ended this resolution, or, if earlier, at the conclusion 31 December 2005 of 14.9 pence per of the next Annual General Meeting of the ordinary share.
Company after the date of the passing of this resolution, but so that this authority 4.
To re-elect Henry Engelhardt Chief Executive shall allow the Company to make before the Officer as a Director of the Company.
expiry of this authority offers or agreements which would or might require relevant 5.
To re-elect Manfred Aldag Non-executive securities to be allotted after such expiry Director and member of the Nomination and notwithstanding such expiry the Committee as a Director of the Company.
Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offers or agreements.
According to the Articles of Association a minimum of one third of Directors or if this is Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 provides not a whole number, the nearest number not that the Directors of a Company cannot issue exceeding one third should resign and offer new shares in its capital without the approval themselves for re-election.
Accordingly, the purpose of this resolution is to give the Directors of the Biographical details of all of the Directors may Company authority to issue new shares in the be found in the Annual Report of the Company capital of the Company up to a maximum on pages 40 to 41. amount of 86,000, which is approximately equivalent to 33 per cent of the issued share 6.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit plc as the auditor capital of the Company as at 3 March 2006. of the Company from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the general meeting at which accounts are laid following resolutions which will be proposed and to authorise the Directors to determine as Special Resolutions: their remuneration.
Subject to passing Resolution 7, that the Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 gives Directors be and they are hereby existing shareholders in a Company certain preempowered pursuant to section 95 of the emption rights with respect to allotments of Act to allot equity securities as defined in new shares.
A Company can only disapply section 94 2 of the Act and as amended by these rights with the approval of its the Regulations for cash pursuant to the shareholders.
Accordingly the purpose of this authority conferred by Resolution 7 above resolution is to allow the Directors of the as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply Company to allot ordinary shares in the to such an allotment provided that this Company for cash, or to transfer treasury power shall be limited to the allotment of shares for cash, other than to its existing such equity securities: shareholders on a pre-emptive basis up to a maximum amount of 13,000 which is i in connection with an offer of equity equivalent to 5% of the issued ordinary share securities by way of rights to the holders capital of the Company as at 3 March 2006 and of the ordinary shares in proportion as is in line with the recommended guidelines nearly as may be practicable to their issued by institutional investor bodies.
holdings on a record date fixed by the Directors but subject to exclusions or 9.
That the Company be generally and other arrangements as the Directors may unconditionally authorised to make one or consider necessary or expedient to deal more market purchases within the meaning with any legal or practical problems of Section 163 3 of the Companies Act under the laws of any territory or the 1985 on the London Stock Exchange of requirements of any regulatory body or ordinary shares of 0.1p in the capital of the stock exchange in any territory or in Company ordinary shares provided that: connection with fractional entitlements or otherwise howsoever : and a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be ii otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph purchased is 13,000,000 representing i above up to a maximum aggregate 5.00% of the issued ordinary share capital nominal amount equal to 13,000. b the minimum price which may be paid for Provided that this power shall, unless an ordinary share is 0.1p previously revoked or varied by special resolution of the Company in general c the maximum price which may be paid for meeting, expire 15 months after the date of an ordinary share is an amount equal to the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at 105% of the average of the middle market the conclusion of the next Annual General quotations for an ordinary share as Meeting of the Company after the date of derived from The London Stock Exchange the passing of this resolution save that the Daily Official List for the five business Company may, before the expiry of such days immediately preceding the day on power, make offers or agreements which which the ordinary share is purchased, would or might require equity securities to exclusive of expenses be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in d the authority conferred by this resolution pursuance of such offers or agreements as if shall, unless renewed, expire on the date the power conferred hereby had not expired.
falling 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution, or, if earlier, at For the purposes of this resolution, the the conclusion of the next Annual Regulations means The Companies General Meeting of the Company: and Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003.
86 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING e the Company may make a contract to Recommendation purchase ordinary shares under this Your Board considers each of the proposed authority before the expiry of the authority resolutions to be in the best interests of the which will or may be executed wholly or Company and its shareholders as a whole.
partly after the expiry of the authority, and Accordingly, your Directors unanimously may make a purchase of ordinary shares in recommend that you vote in favour of the pursuance of any such contract resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
The Directors consider, in certain circumstances, that it may be appropriate and By order of the Board in the best interest of shareholders generally for the Company to purchase its own shares.
This resolution gives authority for the Company to purchase up to 13,000,000 Ordinary shares which is approximately Stuart Clarke equivalent to 5.00% of the issued share capital Company Secretary of the Company as at 3 March 2006.
The 11 April 2006 Directors have no specific plans to exercise any authority granted by this resolution, but will keep the matter under review and will REGISTERED OFFICE only make purchases where, in the light of Capital Tower, Greyfriars Road prevailing market conditions, they consider it Cardiff CF10 3AZ will result in an increase in earnings per Registered No.
3849958 ordinary share in the Company.
The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 which came into force on 1 December 2003 enable companies to retain any of their own shares they have purchased as treasury shares with a view to their possible re-issue at a later date, rather than cancelling them as the law previously required.
The Company will consider holding any of its own shares that it purchases pursuant to this resolution as treasury shares, which will give the Directors flexibility in the management of the capital base of the Company.
No dividends will be paid on treasury shares while held in treasury, and no voting rights will attach to them.
ADMIRAL GROUP plc 87 relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the Notes responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take A member entitled to attend and vote at the annual or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or general meeting AGM may appoint a proxy who need sponsored member or has appointed a voting service not be a member of the Company to attend and, on a provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting poll, to vote on his or her behalf.
In order to be valid an service provider s take s such action as shall be appointment of proxy must be returned by one of the necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by following methods: means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are Companys registrars, Capita Registrars, Proxy Department, referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST 4TU: or system and timings if you hold your shares in certificated form and have your In the case of joint holdings, only one holder may sign and share certificate to hand, online at the vote of the senior who tenders a vote shall be www.
com by following the instructions accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint provided: or holders, seniority for this purpose being determined by the order in which the names stand in the Register of members in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST in respect of joint holdings.
electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out below Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, in order to be able to attend and vote at and in each case instructions must be received not less the AGM or any adjourned meeting, and also for the than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
purposes of calculating how many votes a person may Appointment of a proxy does not preclude a member cast, a person must have his her name entered on the from attending the meeting and voting in person register of members of the Company by 6.00 p. m. on 16th May 2006 or 6.00 p. m. on the date two days before any For an appointment of proxy returned in hard copy to be adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the register of valid, it must be completed and deposited together with members after this time shall be disregarded in determining any power of attorney or other written authority under the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
which it is signed or a copy of such authority notarially certified or in some other way approved by the Directors The register of Directors interests kept by the Company with Capita Registrars, Proxy Department, The Registry, 34 under Section 325 of the Companies Act 1985 will be Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, not less than available for inspection at the meeting from 1.45 p. m. until 48 hours before the meeting.
the conclusion of the meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies Copies of the Executive Directors service contracts and by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment the Non-executive Directors terms of appointment will be service may do so by utilising the procedures described available for inspection at the meeting from 1.45 pm until in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other the conclusion of the meeting.
CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it relates to the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in 88 NOTES Notes Registered Number: 03849958.
Admiral Group plc, Capital Tower, Greyfriars Road, Cardiff CF10 3AZ www.
