BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Definitions For the purpose of this report the following definitions apply: $ US Dollars GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 153 UK pounds Sterling GASA Gas Argentino S. A. ABI Association of British Insurers Group BG Group plc and or any of its subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures or associated ADR American Depositary Receipt undertakings ADS American Depositary Share HSSE Health, Safety, Security and the Environment AGM Annual General Meeting IAS International Accounting Standard issued by the Annual unit operating cost Total production and operating costs for the year IASB divided by net production for the year IASB International Accounting Standards Board bcf Billion cubic feet IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards issued bcfd Billion cubic feet per day by the IASB and endorsed by the European Union bcma Billion cubic metres per annum km Kilometres BG or BG Group BG Group plc and or any of its subsidiary LNG Liquefied Natural Gas undertakings, joint ventures or associated LTIS Long Term Incentive Scheme undertakings m Million BG Energy Holdings BG Energy Holdings Limited, a subsidiary Limited or BGEH of BG Group plc mcmd Thousand cubic metres per day billion or bn One thousand million mmbbl Million barrels boe Barrels of oil equivalent mmboe Million barrels of oil equivalent boed Barrels of oil equivalent per day mmbtu Million British thermal units bopd Barrels of oil per day mmcm Million cubic metres CPC Caspian Pipeline Consortium mmcmd Million cubic metres per day CCGT Combined Cycle Gas Turbine mmscfd Million standard cubic feet per day Combined Code The 2003 Combined Code on Corporate Governance mmscm Million standard cubic metres issued by the UK Financial Reporting Council mmscmd Million standard cubic metres per day Company BG Group plc mtpa Million tonnes per annum CR Corporate Responsibility MW Megawatt CSOS Company Share Option Scheme NGV Natural Gas Vehicle demerger The demerger of certain businesses described in more NYSE New York Stock Exchange detail on page 139 Additional shareholder information OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and DCQ Daily Contracted Quantity Development E&P Exploration and Production PSA Production Sharing Agreement EITF Emerging Issues Task Force PSC Production Sharing Contract EPC Engineer Procure Construct ROACE Return on Average Capital Employed EPS Earnings per Share T&D Transmission and Distribution EPV Estimated Present Value three year proved reserves The three year average proved reserves replacement EU European Union replacement rate or RRR rate is the total net proved reserves changes over the three year period including purchases and sales FAS Financial Accounting Standard issued by the FASB excluding production divided by the total net FASB Financial Accounting Standard Board production for that period FEED Front End Engineering Design underlying three year proved The RRR excluding fuel gas and calculated at Finding and Development The three year average unit finding and reserves replacement rate constant prices costs or F&D development cost is calculated by dividing the total RPIX Retail Price Index excluding mortgage exploration, development and unproved acquisition interest repayments costs incurred over the period by the total changes SEC The United States Securities and Exchange in net proved reserves excluding purchases, sales Commission and production for that period SID Senior Independent Director Financial Statements The Group and parent company financial statements of BG Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 SIP Share Incentive Plan which comprise the consolidated income statement, UKCS United Kingdom Continental Shelf the balance sheets, the cash flow statements, WDDM West Delta Deep Marine the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, and the related notes CAUTIONARY NOTE TO SHAREHOLDERS IN RELATION TO CERTAIN FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report and Accounts includes forward-looking information within the meaning of Section 27A of the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Certain statements included in this Annual Report and Accounts, including, without limitation, those concerning a strategies, outlook and growth opportunities, b positioning to deliver future plans and to realise potential for growth, c delivery of the performance required to meet the 2006 targets, d expectations regarding gas and oil prices, e development of new markets, f the development and commencement of commercial operations of new projects, g liquidity and capital resources, h gas demand growth, i plans for capital and investment expenditure, j the economic outlook for the gas and oil industries, k regulation, l qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk and m statements preceded by believed, expected, likely to, scheduled, targeted, planned, proposed, intended or similar statements, contain certain forward-looking statements concerning the Groups operations, economic performance and financial condition.
Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, no assurance can be given that such expectations will prove to have been correct.
Accordingly, results could differ materially from those set out in the forward-looking statements as a result of, among other factors, a changes in economic, market and competitive conditions, including gas and oil prices, b success in implementing business and operating initiatives, c changes in the regulatory environment and other government actions, including UK and international corporation tax rates, d a major recession or significant upheaval in the major markets in which the Group operates, e the failure to ensure the safe operation of the Groups assets worldwide, f implementation risk, being the challenges associated with delivering capital intensive projects on time and on budget, including the need to retain and motivate staff, g commodity risk, being the risk of a significant fluctuation in gas and or oil prices from those assumed, h fluctuations in exchange rates, in particular the UK US$ exchange rate being significantly different from that assumed, i risks encountered in the gas and oil exploration and production sector in general and j business risk management.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2005 BG Group plc This Annual Report and Accounts is printed on 4 100 Thames Valley Park Drive think bright.
This paper is produced from 100% ECF Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT Elemental Chlorine Free pulp that is fully recyclable.
com It has FSC Forest Stewardship Council certification and has been manufactured within a mill which is Registered in England & Wales No.
3690065 registered under the British and international quality standard of BS EN ISO 9001-2000 and the Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc.
Printed by Butler and Tanner.
environmental standard of BS EN ISO 14001-1996.
qxp 14 3 06 10:55 am Page FC1 Delivering outstanding value to shareholders BG Group Annual Review 2005 BGReview ifc-01.
qxp 13 3 06 5:45 pm Page IFC2 Group Overview NORTH AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA Our activities in this region consist of LNG We have a significant offshore E&P business import and gas marketing in the USA and LNG in the UK.
Other UK activities include power generation, gas transmission, gas marketing and export from Trinidad and Tobago.
We also have the development of a LNG import facility.
In Italy, E&P businesses in Canada, Trinidad and Tobago in addition to existing power generation activities, and the USA.
we are also developing a LNG import facility.
In Kazakhstan, the giant Karachaganak oil and gas condensate field accounted for 19% of BG Groups production in 2005.
ASIA PACIFIC SOUTH AMERICA MEDITERRANEAN BASIN AND AFRICA We have a controlling stake in the largest natural Production in this region is principally from In the expanding Indian gas market, we have a gas distribution company in Brazil.
We sell gas in Egypt and Tunisia, with exploration acreage in growing E&P business and interests in two gas Brazil and Bolivia, and supply the liquids market Israel and areas of Palestinian Authority, Libya, distribution companies.
We also have power in Bolivia, from reserves in Bolivia.
We also hold Mauritania and Nigeria.
LNG exports from generation businesses in Malaysia and the interests in 14 exploration blocks onand Egyptian LNG commenced in the second quarter Philippines and have gas and condensate offshore Brazil and have interests in 2005.
We also have contracts to buy LNG from production in Thailand.
Egypt, Equatorial Guinea and Nigeria to supply our markets in the USA and Europe.
com BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 BGReview ifc-01.
qxp 13 3 06 5:45 pm Page 1 BG Group Highlights 2005 Dividend pence 1 BG Groups main activities 7 BG Group is engaged in the exploration, production, transmission, 6 distribution and supply of natural gas to industrialised and developing 5 markets around the world.
Active in over 20 countries, we have key skills 4 and experience to connect high value markets to cost competitive resources.
3 Exploration and Production E&P 2 BG Group explores, develops, produces and 1 942 million 1 markets gas and oil around the world.
Around total operating profit 73% of 2005 production was gas.
The Group 0 uses its technical, commercial and gas chain 03 04 05 skills to deliver projects at competitive cost, 10% and maximise the sales value of production.
increase in volumes Group revenue and other Liquefied Natural Gas LNG operating income million BG Groups LNG activities combine the 7 000 172 million development of LNG liquefaction and regasification facilities with the purchasing, total operating profit 6 000 shipping and sale of LNG.
The Group uses its 5 000 expertise in LNG to connect its own and other 87% producers gas reserves to markets.
4 000 increase in total operating profit 3 000 Transmission and Distribution T&D 2 000 BG Groups T&D expertise and activities develop 211 million markets for natural gas and provide them with 1 000 total operating profit supply from its own and others reserves through transmission and distribution networks and 0 03 04 05 complementary businesses.
43% increase in total operating profit Power Total operating profit million A large proportion of the worldwide demand 3 000 113 million for gas is attributable to power stations.
2 500 BG Group develops, owns and operates total operating profit gas-fired power generation plants.
2 000 2.8 Gigawatt 1 500 power capacity 1 000 Contents 14 Board of Directors 2 Chairman and Chief Executives statement 16 Summary Directors report 500 4 Strategy and Performance 17 Summary Remuneration report 11 Corporate Responsibility 20 Summary Financial Statements 0 12 Governance and Risk 24 Notice of Annual General Meeting 03 04 05 Business Performance excluding disposals and certain re-measurements.
For a further explanation of disposals and re-measurements see page 16.
See pages 22 and 23 for a reconciliation between Business Performance and Total Results.
From 1 January 2005, BG Group is required to prepare its consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS endorsed by the European Union.
The adoption of IFRS has resulted in the comparative information for 2003 and 2004 being restated.
Further details on the restatement of the results previously reported under UK GAAP are given in note 33, page 118 of the 2005 Annual Report and Accounts.
3.46 3 564 1 279 3.81 1 513 4 063 6.00 5 664 2 380 BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 BGReview 02-03. qxp 12 3 06 11:00 am Page 2 Chairman and Chief Executives statement that is full of opportunity for a company such as ours, with a focus predominantly on gas.
2 Demand for gas is rising in both the USA and Western Europe at a time when indigenous supplies are in decline.
The gap must be filled by internationally traded gas and a significant part of this will be LNG.
Over recent years, BG Group has developed a strong Atlantic Basin position in LNG, so we are well placed to participate in this growing market.
The recent high level and extraordinary volatility of international gas prices has adverse implications for the industrys competitiveness and, combined with concerns about security of supply, will tend to encourage consideration of both nuclear and coal-fired power generation as alternatives to gas.
However, many of the current destabilising influences on gas pricing are likely to subside with the In a challenging business environment, BG Group development of more infrastructure for the international trade in gas.
Concerns about has again delivered another impressive set of results.
geopolitical stability in some key producing areas are less easy to address and, at national policy level, can probably only be met by geographic diversity in supply sources.
Frank Chapman Sir Robert Wilson A STRATEGY FOR SUCCESS Chief Executive Chairman There are good reasons to believe we are entering the Age of Gas.
Natural gas is the cleanest fossil fuel: it is convenient to use: it We are pleased to report that, in 2005, BG THE GLOBAL ENERGY MARKET is relatively abundant: and the technologies Group delivered another impressive set of It has been clear for some years now that the for delivering it by pipeline and ship are results.
Strong operational performance and growth in demand for natural gas would be mature.
Renewables will enter the energy favourable market conditions combined to likely to exceed that for competing fuels.
mix, of course, but it will be many years yet enable our continued growth.
Total operating It has been clear, too, that the rapid before they will account for a large part of profit increased by 57% from 2004 to development of international trade in gas, the worlds energy needs.
At constant UK US$ exchange whether through pipelines or Liquefied gas, as the most eco-friendly fossil fuel, has rates and upstream prices, total operating Natural Gas LNG, would mean a much an important role to play.
Our core strategy profit increased by 15% for the year.
faster rate of change in the gas industry than is to secure competitively priced gas and Our earnings, excluding disposals and in the more mature markets for other fossil connect it to customers in high value re-measurements, were up by 64% to fuels.
Now, overlaid on all this, we have seen markets.
We believe that the evidence of 1 357 million and the full year dividend will sharp price increases, both for gas and oil, 2005 is that this is a strategy that continues be increased by 57% to 6.00 pence.
Our aim and growing concern about the long-term to create value and provides BG Group with a now is to continue to increase the dividend security of energy supplies.
This all makes for compelling proposition and strong position: in line with underlying earnings growth.
a challenging business environment, but one particularly important at this time when cost See pages 22 and 23 for a reconciliation between Business Performance and Total Results.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 BGReview 02-03. qxp 13 3 06 12:47 pm Page 3 pressures are rising and competition within CONFIDENT IN OUR FUTURE development and implementation of the gas market is growing.
In November, we announced our intention Corporate Responsibility policy.
A Corporate 3 to return up to 1 billion to shareholders via Responsibility Committee of the Board, which HOW WE PERFORMED a share repurchase programme, and we has a wide remit including Health, Safety, For BG Group, the year 2005 was once again have already noted the step change in our Security, Environment and Community characterised by excellent project delivery.
These are signals of our Relations, has been established under the a significant part of our activity also revolved commitment to tight capital discipline, to chairmanship of Sir John Coles.
The around developing future projects: for maintaining an efficient balance sheet and establishment of this Committee reflects the example, we increased our gross exploration to generating cash for the long-term benefit increasing weight the Board places on 2 acreage by over 45 000 km, acquiring blocks of our shareholders.
High hydrocarbon prices, getting Corporate Responsibility right.
or succeeding in licence bid rounds in Brazil, the US$1.8 billion aggregate pre-tax receipts However, although we have made significant Canada, Egypt, India, Libya, Nigeria, Norway, from our North Caspian Sea asset sale and progress in safety management in recent the UK and the USA.
We also agreed to new long-term projects coming onstream years, it is with great regret that we have to expand further the storage and throughput have enabled us to do this.
It is a signal of our report six contractor fatalities in three events capacity at the Elba Island regasification confidence in the outlook for BG Group that during 2005.
Five were in Egypt and one in terminal and acquired full ownership of the we can both return cash to shareholders and Kazakhstan.
Our response was a full review of Brindisi regasification project in Italy.
Consistent our approach to safety management In Exploration and Production E&P, total with these growth ambitions, we also throughout the Group.
We introduced a operating profit was up again by 63% to announced an extra 900 million of capital comprehensive STEP UP safety programme, 1 942 million.
This increase was largely due investment in new development projects.
requiring all employees to reassess their to higher prices, and higher output from behaviours and to ensure that safety is CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Kazakhstan and Egypt.
We have increased our reinforced as their highest priority.
AND GOVERNANCE E&P targets for 2006 for the second successive As a Group, we are committed to the very BOARD AND GROUP EXECUTIVE year to reflect the progress we have made.
We have In 2005, we welcomed Jrgen Dormann, who This was an outstanding year for the LNG developed a framework that encompasses joined the Board in June.
We also welcomed segment of our business.
We doubled the organisation and structure, internal controls, onto the Group Executive Mark Carne, who is number of operating liquefaction trains in and independent assurance.
We believe that our Executive Vice President and Managing the course of the year with Egyptian LNG this framework delivers best practice in terms Director for Europe and Central Asia, and Trains 1 and 2 and Atlantic LNG Train 4 of governance.
Stefan Ricketts, who is our General Counsel.
Phase 1 of the expansion Increasingly, the focus on gas production is Finally, we would like to thank the employees of our Lake Charles capacity was also moving from developed countries to those at of BG Group for the commitment and effort completed, nearly doubling the Groups different stages of economic, environmental they demonstrated and the imagination they regasification capacity.
There are new displayed in the course of 2005.
At a time We continued to demonstrate that there is opportunities for us, but these new when the Group is growing fast, the value downstream, by making further progress opportunities bring with them very clear challenges to employees are considerable.
In India, we have responsibilities.
It is often alleged, for example, They have shown what an excellent team achieved strong growth in distribution volumes that resource wealth in developing countries they are in delivering the successes reported and profits.
The Transmission and Distribution leads to corruption.
That need not be the case in this Annual Review.
T&D highlight for 2005, though, was at our and we will have no part in it.
In fact, we go Sir Robert Wilson and Frank Chapman Comgas business in Brazil where operating further and apply the same transparent and Chairman and Chief Executive profit rose 53% and double-digit volume ethical standards in our operations regardless growth was achieved.
of where we work in the world.
Our Power portfolio, which covers the UK, Recognising the increasing range of cultural Italy, the Philippines and Malaysia, continues and social environments in which we operate, to realise good returns.
BG Group is putting more resource into the See pages 22 and 23 for a reconciliation between Business Performance and Total Results.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 BGReview 04-05. qxd 12 3 06 11:01 am Page 4 Strategy and Performance 4 Strategy in action Creating value across the gas chain BG Groups strategy is to secure competitively priced resource oil and gas BG Groups understanding of market trends and both equity and contracted supply and bring that resource to customers in industry-leading skills across the gas chain have high value markets.
allowed us to identify high quality opportunities.
Gas is often more difficult to commercialise than oil because, unlike oil, there is no globally traded market for gas.
In addition, gas is more difficult Exploration and Production to store and transport.
As a result, specialist skills are required to put together gas chains that link resources to markets.
BG Group maintains a deep understanding of current gas demand and market trends and has been successful in creating markets for its gas.
Securing competitive supplies is an essential part of BG Groups strategy and cost leadership is a pre-requisite for long-term success.
Although industry costs have been rising, BG Group is maintaining its competitive advantage in key performance metrics.
The Groups supplies remain cost competitive against peer companies.
a E&P cost metrics Three year Finding and Development Annual unit operating cost costs $ boe $ boe Peer Group includes Super Majors, Peer Group includes Super Majors, US and European Integrated Majors US and European Integrated Majors CASE STUDY: UK $0 $2 $4 $6 $8 $10 $0 $2 $4 $6 $8 Securing competitively priced supply for the UK b BG Group 2003-2005 BG Group 2004 In the UK, we are working to maintain our c BG Group 2003-2005 BG Group 2005 supply position from a range of piped and Peer 2002-2004 Peer 2004 LNG sources.
Our production hubs and Source: Evaluate Energy 2005, BG Group Source: Evaluate Energy 2005, BG Group infrastructure in the UK North Sea are adding value to new prospects and exploration a See BG Groups 2005 Annual Report and Accounts on the BG Group website for an explanation of how these ratios are calculated acreage across the median line in Norway.
b Indicates position with underlying performance data, which is calculated at constant We are importing gas from Europe via our prices and excludes fuel gas share in the expanded Interconnector c Indicates position with SEC data pipeline and are developing a LNG import terminal in Wales.
com BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 BGReview 04-05. qxd 12 3 06 11:01 am Page 5 5 Liquefied Natural Gas Power Transmission Distribution CASE STUDY: EGYPT CASE STUDY: USA LNG is key to accessing high value US market Building on success in Egypt In the USA, the market access afforded by our Success in Egypt has been the result of regasification capacity at Lake Charles and first class project delivery combined with Elba Island is adding value to our reserves government alignment.
The business started in Trinidad and Tobago and Egypt and will by supplying the domestic market but has underpin our continuing investment in rapidly developed into a LNG export scheme Nigeria.
It also allows us to purchase to target higher priced international markets.
third-party LNG from sources such as Nigeria There is the potential for expansion at the and Equatorial Guinea and to take advantage liquefaction plant and through exploration of LNG arbitrage opportunities.
of our new and existing acreage.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 BGReview 06-10. qxp 14 3 06 1:05 pm Page 6 Strategy and Performance the ability to connect assets to enhance value: and 6 new opportunities, building on core competencies.
BG Groups cost competitive, flexible LNG portfolio is of particular importance.
Core market access positions at Lake Charles and Elba Island anchor value from the upstream business both from equity and contracted gas supplies.
Over the next two years, an important transition will occur as material long-term contracts come onstream to provide the major share of the LNG supply portfolio.
Spot and short-term supply opportunities will continue to be available to the Group.
We expect to capture further value by taking arbitrage opportunities in response to short-term market conditions.
In addition to supplying high value markets We are unique in our industry because we in the USA and Europe, BG Group is also developing valuable positions in other markets, specialise in gas and have the skills to compete including Brazil and India.
These markets have material long-term growth potential driven by right across the gas chain.
We continue to grow our businesses along the gas chain and to play an active part in contributing to William Friedrich Frank Chapman market development.
Deputy Chief Executive Chief Executive Exploration success will be an important determinant of long-term growth.
At a time when accessing resources has become one of STRATEGY The strategy has remained fundamentally the central challenges for the industry, we have BG Group is an integrated gas company unchanged for some years because it continues substantially increased gross exploration acreage that aims to achieve strong growth and to deliver value to shareholders and has proved in the last year.
This is expected to contribute to competitive returns through a strategy robust in the face of developments in the our ability to sustain the Groups growth in the focused on securing competitively priced gas business environment.
and bringing that gas to high value markets.
FUTURE GROWTH HOW WE PERFORMED Our competitive advantage stems from a BG Groups ability to achieve strong growth 2005 was another year of good performance deep understanding of gas markets combined is underpinned by existing assets that have from the Group, with strong growth and with industry-leading skills in finding and a distinctive, low cost, long-life base with operational performance ahead of our commercialising gas.
This capability allows us substantial growth potential.
Total operating profit, excluding to capture opportunities and develop projects other drivers of long-term growth are: disposals and re-measurements, was that deliver value across the entire chain.
2 380 million, up 57% compared to 2004. incremental investments around existing assets: Our revenue and other operating income in 2005 was 5 664 million, as compared to See pages 22 and 23 for a reconciliation between Business Performance and Total Results.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 BGReview 06-10. qxp 13 3 06 6:30 pm Page 7 Group wide activities 7 BG Group is a rapidly growing business with operations in over 20 countries and Integrated Gas Major across five continents.
BG Group is principally engaged in exploration and production and the development and supply of existing and emerging gas markets around the world.
Gas discoveries Connecting gas to Secure competitively often require complex chains of physical high value markets priced resources infrastructure and commercial agreements build and access markets equity reserves to deliver the gas to markets and serve customers contracted resources BG Group has proven skills and experience in creating value from these chains.
Skills to succeed across the gas chain 4 063 million in 2004 an increase of 39%.
exchange rate movements and higher the first half 2006 and progress was made on Earnings have continued to grow strongly: realised prices for gas and oil contributed the Buzzard field, which is expected to add reaching 1 357 million, excluding disposals 641 million to operating profit.
production from the end of 2006. and re-measurements, an increase of 64% Proved reserves in 2005 increased to Since entry in 2004, the Group has secured over 2004.
2 184 mmboe from 2 147 mmboe in 2004, 15 exploration licences offshore Norway, Exploration and Production E&P which includes four licences awarded in after net additions and revisions to proved Our E&P business continued its strong a licensing round in December 2005. reserves of 219 mmboe.
performance as in previous years.
Production Exploration drilling is expected to continue In the year we completed 29 exploration and increased by 10% to 183.8 million barrels of offshore Norway during 2006. appraisal wells, of which 14 were successful.
Egypt UK & Norway In 2005, E&P revenue and other operating 2005 was another year of considerable The UK accounted for around 30% of our income increased by 43% to 3 074 million progress for the Group in Egypt with production in 2005.
The principal operating and E&P operating profit excluding disposals production of 35 mmboe, up 21 mmboe assets are the Armada and Seymour fields, and re-measurements increased by 63% on 2004.
We are the operator of two the Blake field, the Easington Catchment Area, to 1 942 million.
The 2005 increase was gas-producing areas offshore the Nile Delta the Everest and Lomond fields, the J-Block primarily driven by increased exports from and we continue to be a key supplier to the Joanne and Judy and Jade fields and the the Karachaganak field in Kazakhstan, higher domestic market.
The Simian, Sienna and Elgin Franklin fields.
BG Group also has a production from the West Delta Deep Marine Sapphire fields came onstream in 2005 to 51.18% interest in the Central Area Transmission fields in Egypt and a full years contribution supply Egyptian LNG see LNG section for from properties acquired in 2004 in Canada, System.
The Atlantic Cromarty, NW Seymour more information and Rosetta Phase 2 came Egypt and Trinidad and Tobago.
US Dollar and Glenelg fields are expected onstream in onstream, delivering into the domestic BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 BGReview 06-10. qxp 12 3 06 11:02 am Page 8 Strategy and Performance continued market.
In July 2005, we signed concession to progress expansion projects that plan to agreements for two offshore blocks and in almost double PMTs production rate in the Key events 8 January 2006 finalised terms for the North next four years.
In December 2005, we Early start-up of Simian, Sienna and Sidi Kerir Deep concession, subject to reached agreement with ONGC to jointly Sapphire fields offshore Egypt ratification by the Peoples Assembly.
operate three offshore deep water Acquired additional exploration exploration blocks on the east coast of India.
Kazakhstan acreage in Canada, India, Nigeria, Subject to agreeing farm-in arrangements We are the joint operator of the giant Norway and the USA and successful and government approval, BG Group will Karachaganak oil and gas condensate field in in licensing rounds in Brazil, Egypt, hold a 50% interest in these blocks.
In 2005, production Libya, Norway and the UK increased, reaching over 402 000 gross Thailand Exploration success in Canada, Egypt, barrels of oil equivalent per day boed.
We continue to invest in the Bongkot field, Mauritania, Trinidad and Tobago and Approximately 70% of liquids production which accounts for over 20% of Thailands the UK from Karachaganak was shipped through domestic gas production.
Record daily Egyptian LNG Trains 1 and 2 onstream production levels were achieved by Bongkot the Caspian Pipeline Consortium pipeline ahead of schedule BG Group 2% and sold at international during 2005. prices.
The remaining untreated production Atlantic LNG Train 4 onstream Bolivia continues to be sold to Russian markets.
In We hold a number of E&P interests in Bolivia, Comgas in Brazil continues to grow April 2005, we completed the disposal of including production from the Margarita Early volumes, up 14% our 16.67% share in the North Caspian Sea Production Facilities, selling gas into the Production Sharing Agreement for a pre-tax Brazilian and Bolivian markets.
Following the cash consideration of US$1.8 billion.
July 2004 referendum, a new Hydrocarbons Law has been passed which marks a significant Trinidad and Tobago departure from the principles which previously We produced 18 mmboe of gas in Trinidad Exploration and appraisal wells governed the hydrocarbon sector.
A new BG Groups success rate has averaged and Tobago in 2005 with gas being supplied 61% over the last three years administration was elected in December 2005. to both the domestic market and into We continue to monitor the situation.
Atlantic LNG for export to North America.
35 Our Dolphin Deep field is expected onstream Canada 30 in the first half 2006 and will supply Atlantic After significant acquisitions and awards of 25 LNG Trains 3 and 4.
In February 2005, we oil and gas acreage in Canada in 2004 and announced a major gas discovery in the 2005, we now have around 346 000 hectares 20 offshore Manatee 1 exploration well.
Our first Canadian drilling programme 15 began in May 2004.
Of the 12 wells drilled Tunisia 10 and completed in 2005, eight were successful.
In 2005, we produced around 13 mmboe of 5 gas and condensate in Tunisia from our Mauritania Miskar offshore field and supplied around 50% Four oil discoveries have been made in 0 03 04 05 of Tunisian gas demand.
Progress was made Production Sharing Contract PSC B and on the development of the Hasdrubal field.
a gas field was discovered in PSC A.
Further Total number of wells completed drilling is planned for 2006.
The Chinguetti India Number of successful wells field began production in February 2006.
In 2005, BG Groups expanded Panna Mukta and Tapti PMT fields produced around Brazil 9 mmboe net.
Production from these fields In 2005, drilling commenced on BM-S-10 has increased by around 43% on a net basis BG Group 25%, BM-S-11 BG Group 25% and on BG Group-operated BM-S-13 since we acquired them in 2001 and we are working with partners and the Government BG Group 60%, all offshore So Paulo city.
17 12 28 18 29 14 BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 BGReview 06-10. qxp 13 3 06 4:43 pm Page 9 Libya and Train 4 one of the worlds largest We entered Libya in 2005 when we were operating trains of LNG came onstream in E&P Production 000 boed 9 awarded three onshore exploration licences December 2005.
Production volumes have grown at a in the 2nd Libyan licensing round in October compound average growth rate of 9% We are also jointly planning a LNG between 2003 and 2005 2005.
Two licences are in the Sirte basin liquefaction plant in Olokola on the western BG Group 100% and operator and one licence 700 coast of Nigeria.
The project is planned to in the frontier Kufra basin BG Group 50%.
comprise four trains of LNG of approximately 600 Nigeria 5.5 million tonnes per annum mtpa each.
500 We are developing an E&P and LNG position Regasification 400 in Nigeria, one of the most prolific During 2005, we were responsible for meeting hydrocarbon provinces in the Atlantic Basin.
300 just over 1% of US daily gas demand and In January 2006, we signed a PSC for imported around 37% of LNG delivered into the 200 Block 332, acquiring 45% and operatorship USA.
The Phase 1 expansion of the Lake Charles in the deep water block, located in depths of 100 terminal came onstream in the third quarter 100-1000 metres, around 100 km south-east 0 2005.
All of the increased capacity is committed of the commercial capital Lagos.
The Phase 2 expansion to increase USA capacity further is underway and scheduled for Actual gas In January 2006, we signed a participation completion mid-2006.
During the fourth Actual oil and liquids agreement for a 33.33% equity share in quarter 2005, Lake Charles received the first of Target 2.1 million acres of land in the Foothills area its long-term contracted cargoes from Egyptian of the Alaskan North Slope.
In the first quarter 2006, we took delivery of the first of our long-term cargoes Liquefied Natural Gas LNG Production mtpa from Nigeria and Atlantic LNG Train 4.
Our LNG business continued its strong LNG production has grown 21% per annum on a compound basis since 2003 performance in 2005: three new LNG trains In the USA, we also have capacity to receive came onstream Egyptian LNG Trains 1 and 2 LNG at the Elba Island terminal.
In 2005, 8 and Atlantic LNG Train 4 in Trinidad and Tobago we entered into agreements with El Paso and LNG remains a key area of investment for Corporation to further expand the storage 7 the Group.
LNG revenue and other operating and throughput capacity at the Elba 6 income increased by 49% to 1 631 million during Island terminal.
Total operating profit excluding disposals Construction work on the Dragon LNG 4 and re-measurements was 172 million, regasification terminal in Milford Haven, 3 up 80 million from 2004.
The increase in Wales, continued during 2005 and completion 2005 reflected improved marketing margins, 2 is targeted for the fourth quarter 2007. increased shipping utilisation and the 1 In Italy, we acquired Enels share of capacity start-up of Egyptian LNG Trains 1 and 2. at the 6 mtpa Brindisi LNG regasification 0 03 04 05 06 terminal.
Brindisi LNG is now expected to Liquefaction The first cargo of Egyptian LNG Train 1 was receive its first LNG cargo in the fourth Actual quarter 2009.
In 2006, we signed a Letter despatched in May 2005, three months ahead Target of schedule and in record time.
Egyptian LNG of Agreement for the supply of LNG and the development of a LNG import terminal in Train 2, which despatched its first cargo in Quintero Bay, Chile.
September 2005, was also ahead of schedule and in record time.
LNG shipping In Trinidad and Tobago, the first three trains Shipping remains an important enabler in the LNG business as it ensures delivery and of Atlantic LNG continued to perform well, 428 2.8 457 3.2 4.1 504 600 7.1 BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 BGReview 06-10. qxp 13 3 06 4:44 pm Page 10 Strategy and Performance continued flexibility under long-term contracts and the stations.
Our power stations are located in ability to acquire short-term cargoes and the UK, the Philippines, Malaysia and Italy.
T&D Throughput bcma 10 benefit from arbitrage opportunities.
We Volume throughput has increased 3% per Total operating profit for Power in 2005 annum on a compound basis since 2003 expect to take delivery of three new-build was 113 million and included the Groups ships in 2006, four in 2007 and we have 16 share of operating profits in joint ventures options for further ships beyond 2007. and associates.
Transmission and Distribution 12 UK Our T&D business grew strongly in 2005, Premier Power Limited BG Group 100%, driven by double-digit volume growth at owns and operates the Ballylumford power 8 Comgas in Brazil.
Total operating profit station in Northern Ireland.
The station has excluding disposals and re-measurements electricity supply agreements with Northern 4 from T&D in 2005 was 211 million, including Ireland Electricity.
We also have a 50% interest the Groups share of profit in joint ventures in the Seabank power station, near Bristol.
MetroGAS S. A. Argentina 0 and its parent Gas Argentino S. A. GASA were The Philippines 03 04 05 06 deconsolidated in December 2005 as a result We have a 40% stake in two gas-fired power of a restructuring agreement signed by stations, Santa Rita and San Lorenzo.
Both sell Actual GASA shareholders.
electricity to Meralco, the Philippines largest Target power distribution company, under long-term a Reduction due to sale of Premier Brazil power purchase agreements.
Transmission Limited PTL Comgas BG Group 60.1% is Brazils largest b Previous target of 14 bcma has been gas distribution company.
In 2005, Comgas Italy amended to allow for disposal of PTL increased sales volumes by 14%, operating We have a 33.68% share in Serene, which and reduced holding in MetroGAS profit by 53%, increased their customer base operates 400 Megawatt of co-generation at to around 485 000 customers, and extended five locations in Italy, adjacent to Fiat Auto their network by 594 km during the year.
Power capacity Gigawatt GW India 3.5 Gujarat Gas Company Limited GGCL 3.0 BG Group 65.1% is Indias largest private gas distribution company.
In 2005, its sales 2.5 volume increased by 17%, with a better sales 2.0 mix including more industrial customers and cost savings improving margins to 1.5 achieve a 42% increase in operating profit.
1.0 UK 0.5 The reverse flow capacity of the Interconnector 0.0 BG Group 25%, a gas pipeline that connects 03 04 05 06 the UK with continental Europe, was increased in December 2005 from 8.5 billion cubic metres Actual per annum bcma to 16.5 bcma.
Reverse flow Target capacity is scheduled to be further expanded to 23.5 bcma by December 2006.
Power We have a profitable portfolio of modern, efficient combined cycle gas turbine power 2.8 12.5 2.8 13.4 a 2.8 13.2 b 2.8 11.7 BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 BGReview 11-13. qxd 13 3 06 12:55 pm Page 11 Corporate Responsibility We also have an active programme of engagement on CR issues with major Corporate Responsibility summary 2005 in review 11 shareholders and analysts.
In 2005, Goldman Launched the STEP UP safety initiative Sachs ranked BG Group in the top 10% of the in October, reinforcing our focus on safe oil and gas sector for managing environmental, behaviours after six contractors died as social and governance issues.
We also a result of three separate incidents retained membership of the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes.
Board Corporate Responsibility Committee established in February 2005 OUR PEOPLE Corporate During 2005, we had an average of BG Group workforce grew by 12% in 2005 Responsibility 5 363 employees in around 20 countries.
Business growth in 2005 and projected growth means that it is important to access the best people to deliver the business plan now and into the future.
We also focus on safety operational and occupational since the production, transportation and utilisation of large volumes of natural gas carry the potential for major safety hazards.
Our safety performance Our ability to work in countries at different business grows.
The CR Committee has a has improved significantly since 1998. stages of economic, environmental and social specific role in seeking assurance that we will The rate of lost time injuries for employees development is fundamental to our business be able to conduct business in potential new and contractors was 0.5 per million hours countries in accordance with our Business goal of connecting competitively priced gas worked compared to 0.6 in 2004 and a Principles.
In late 2005, we commissioned to markets.
We recognise that Corporate starting position of 6.7 in 1998.
Lord Richard Holme to provide strategic Responsibility CR strengthens our abilities It is with great regret that we report six advice on sustainable development.
This is to deliver our business strategy.
contractor fatalities during 2005: five in scheduled for completion during 2006.
Our Statement of Business Principles is our Egypt and one in Kazakhstan.
The fatalities In 2005, we investigated seven allegations in code of ethics for all employees and forms reinforced our focus on behaviour-based accordance with our Whistleblowing policy the foundation of CR across BG Group.
safety and triggered a major review of the and six allegations of fraud.
One employment A comprehensive review of the Business way we manage Health, Safety, Security and contract was terminated and two cases Principles, involving consultation with the Environment HSSE.
reported to the police for further investigation.
employees and external organisations, was SOCIETY conducted in 2005.
As a result of the review, We found evidence of fraud in one case and We recognise that maintaining positive took remedial action.
No evidence of fraud revised Business Principles, containing relationships with neighbouring communities emerged from the remaining two cases.
None 15 short sentences stating our beliefs and is vital for our future commercial success and behaviours, were developed and approved of these cases were material or related to the to maintain our reputation.
We conduct Social Groups financial reporting.
The revised Impact Assessments to help understand and Business Principles, commitments and code We support the Extractive Industries mitigate the potential impacts of proposed of conduct are to be launched in 2006.
Transparency Initiative, which is a UK activities on local communities.
In 2005, an CONDUCT Government sponsored initiative that independent survey concluded that we are The Board established a Board CR Committee promotes transparent reporting by implementing our Business Principles as they in February 2005, in recognition that there governments of the aggregate revenues apply to community relations but we could be will be an increasing focus on CR as the resulting from mineral resource extraction.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 BGReview 11-13. qxd 13 3 06 6:31 pm Page 12 Corporate Responsibility Governance and Risk continued We also work directly with local communities that are affected by our operations as well as BG Group Governance framework Overview 12 contributing to appropriate national BG Group has an established Governance initiatives.
Our social investments focus on framework that is overseen by the Board of BG GROUP SHAREHOLDERS projects that add to long-term sustainability Directors, which is ultimately responsible to through the Groups theme of creating BG Group shareholders.
The framework is opportunity and skills for development.
made up of three core elements: BOARD OF DIRECTORS In 2005, we spent a total of 3.6 million on voluntary social investment 3.5 million Organisation and Structure: in 2004.
Internal Control Framework: and INTERNAL ORGANISATION INDEPENDENT CONTROL ENVIRONMENT AND STRUCTURE ASSURANCE FRAMEWORK Independent Assurance processes.
Our core business is the production, supply and distribution of gas.
Gas is a relatively clean fuel and can have a beneficial impact on the environment when it is used to replace other fossil fuels.
However, our operations have the capacity to produce The Board of Directors of BG Group is Statement of compliance with the NYSE negative environmental impacts.
We operate committed to the highest standards of Corporate Governance Rules a Group-wide environmental management corporate governance, which it considers are The Companys American Depositary Shares are system to minimise negative impacts and critical to maintaining investor confidence listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE to ensure compliance with applicable and for the integrity of the Group.
and the Company is, therefore, subject to the environmental regulation.
BG Groups Governance framework rules of the NYSE as well as US securities laws complements our beliefs and behaviours as and the rules of the US Securities and Our environmental philosophy of operating set out in our Statement of Business Principles.
Exchange Commission SEC as those rules beyond compliance with local regulation to and laws apply to non-US companies.
meet internationally accepted good practice STATEMENTS OF COMPLIANCE was reinforced in 2005 through its specific Statement of compliance with the provisions The NYSE requires US companies listed on introduction into our Health, Safety and of the UK Combined Code the exchange to comply with its corporate Environment Policy.
As part of this As a UK listed Company, BG Group is required governance rules, but non-US companies, commitment, all of our major operated to state whether it has complied with the such as BG Group, are exempt from most of facilities are required to achieve external provisions set out in Section 1 of the UK these rules.
However, pursuant to NYSE Rule certification of their environmental Financial Reporting Councils Combined Code 303A.
11, BG Group is required to disclose a management systems to the international on Corporate Governance the Combined summary of any significant ways in which standard ISO 14001.
Code throughout 2005 and, where the the corporate governance practices it follows provisions have not been complied with, differ from those required by the NYSE for US In 2005, in recognition of the increasing to provide an explanation.
BG Group is also domestic companies.
financial implications of emissions, we required to explain in its Annual Report how successfully implemented a Group-wide The Directors consider that there are no it has applied the principles set out in the environmental emissions database accessible significant differences in the corporate Combined Code.
Section 1 of the Combined directly by operated assets.
The database is governance practices followed by BG Group Code comprises detailed provisions relating to designed to record and analyse emissions to compared to those required by the NYSE for directors, their remuneration, accountability air, land and water.
and audit, and relations with shareholders.
US domestic companies, except that, as permitted by the Combined Code, the The Directors consider that the Company Nominations Committee comprises a majority has complied with the provisions set out in of independent non-executive Directors.
Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2005.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 BGReview 11-13. qxd 13 3 06 12:57 pm Page 13 GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK of its non-executive Directors, with the Control Framework, which defines the way The remainder of this report provides further exception of the Chairman, is independent in which the Group operates and comprises 13 information about BG Groups Governance the Groups Business Principles, policies, in character and judgment.
framework in support of the statements standards, guidelines and processes.
The Board At the time of his appointment, the Chairman made above.
is responsible for the Groups underlying was considered independent by the Board.
In system of internal controls and has Organisation and Structure accordance with the Combined Code, the oversight responsibility for the review A key element of BG Groups Governance ongoing test of independence for the and assurance processes.
framework is its organisation and structure, Chairman is not appropriate.
which is established by the Board and is The Board has determined that the Groups The Board has regular scheduled meetings designed to allow for effective and efficient system of internal controls is effective.
throughout the year and, wherever possible, decision making.
The Board has delegated Independent Assurance Directors are expected to attend all Board authority to its committees on specific meetings and any respective committee The third element of BG Groups Governance matters, which are set out in written terms of framework is Independent Assurance, which meetings together with the Annual General reference.
The terms of reference of the Audit, Meeting AGM.
All Directors are subject to is provided by Group Audit, by its independent Remuneration, Corporate Responsibility and external Auditors and by other external advisers.
election by shareholders at the first AGM Nominations committees are published on following their appointment by the Board.
Copies are available The purpose of Group Audit is to provide Thereafter, in accordance with the Combined upon request.
assurance to the Board, Audit Committee, Code and the Companys Articles of Group Executive Committee and business Board of Directors Association, they are subject to re-election management that effective and efficient The Board is responsible to BG Groups every three years.
internal control processes are in place to identify shareholders for creating and delivering and manage business risks across the Group.
Company Secretary sustainable shareholder value through the The Company Secretary, Ben Mathews, is The independent external Auditors opinion management of the Groups businesses on the accounts is set out on page 21 of this responsible for advising the Board through within the overall Governance framework.
the Chairman on all governance matters.
The external reserves consultant, The Board sets the Groups strategy and The Directors have full access to the advice Degolyer and MacNaughton provides an ensures that an appropriate level of financial and services of the Company Secretary, who independent review on certain of BG Groups and human resources are made available to is responsible to the Board for ensuring that oil and gas reserves.
management for the delivery of the agreed correct Board procedures are followed.
The Board has a formal schedule of RISK MANAGEMENT AND RISK FACTORS matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
Board evaluation There is a continuous process for identifying, A comprehensive and rigorous evaluation evaluating and managing the significant risks The Board is made up of a non-executive was conducted during the year, of the faced by the Group.
Chairman, the Chief Executive, Deputy Chief performance of the Board, its principal Executive, Chief Financial Officer and six Risk Management is incorporated into key committees, individual non-executive independent non-executive Directors.
A list of business processes including strategy and Directors and the Chairman.
An evaluation of the individual Directors, their biographies and business planning, investment appraisal, the Corporate Responsibility Committee will details of their committee membership are performance management and HSSE.
The take place in 2006 following its first full year provided on pages 14 and 15.
The independent principal risk factors that may affect the of operation.
The Directors have concluded non-executive Directors provide a wealth of Groups business, strategy and share price that the Board and its committees operate experience and skills.
The posts of Chairman are exploration and new ventures, portfolio, effectively and that each Director is and Chief Executive are separated and their political climate, project pre-sanction and contributing to the overall effectiveness responsibilities are set out in writing and commercialisation, project delivery, and success of the Group.
The roles and operations, commodity prices, exchange rate, responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Internal Control Framework financing, credit, regulation, commercial, Executive are published on the Companys The second key element of BG Groups HSSE, insurance, stakeholder engagement, website.
In the opinion of the Board, each Governance framework is the Internal Corporate Responsibility and human resources.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 BGReview 14-15. qxd 12 3 06 11:08 am Page 14 Board of Directors 1 Sir Robert Wilson KCMG 62 Chairman 14 Sir Robert Wilson was appointed Chairman with effect from 1 January 2004, having been a non-executive Director since September 2002.
He was chairman of Rio Tinto from 1997 to 2003 and prior to that was chief executive between 1991 and 1997.
He is also chairman of The Economist Group and a non-executive director of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
He has previously been a non-executive director of Diageo plc, BP plc and The Boots Company PLC.
b, d, e, g 2 Frank Chapman 52 Chief Executive Frank Chapman was appointed Chief Executive with effect from 23 October 2000, having been appointed to the Board of BG plc in February 1997.
He joined British Gas plc in November 1996 as Managing Director, Exploration and Production.
He is an engineer and has worked in the oil and gas industry for 30 years.
Prior to joining British Gas plc, he spent 22 years with Shell and BP.
a, b, d, g 3 William Friedrich 57 Deputy Chief Executive William Friedrich was appointed Deputy Chief Executive with effect from 23 October 2000.
He is also responsible for the Groups portfolio and strategy development.
He joined British Gas plc in December 1995 as General Counsel after a 20 year career with Shearman & Sterling, where he became a partner in 1983.
Whilst with the firm, he practised as a general corporate lawyer, working mainly on international transactions, 1 2 and ultimately headed the firms worldwide project development and project finance 3 4 practice.
He is also a non-executive director of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc.
5 6 a, b, d, g 7 8 9 10 BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 BGReview 14-15. qxd 12 3 06 11:08 am Page 15 4 Ashley Almanza 42 7 Paul Collins 69 9 Baroness Hogg 59 Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director 15 Ashley Almanza was appointed Chief Paul Collins was appointed to the Board as Baroness Hogg was appointed to the Board Financial Officer with effect from 1 August a non-executive Director with effect from as a non-executive Director with effect from 2002.
He is responsible for Group finance, 23 October 2000 after a long career with 27 January 2005.
She is a former head of tax, treasury, investor relations, internal audit, Citigroup Inc.
The Board nominated him the Prime Ministers Policy Unit and has legal and secretariat.
He joined British Gas plc as the Senior Independent Director from extensive experience of business, government in 1993 and has held a number of roles 4 May 2005.
He joined Citicorp in 1961 and and the media.
She is chairman of 3i Group plc including Finance Director of BG International subsequently served as the chief investment and Frontier Economics Ltd, deputy chairman Downstream.
He acted as Group Finance officer, headed the financial markets division, of GKN plc, a non-executive director of Director from October 2000 to January 2001 corporate planning, finance and Carnival plc and Carnival Corporation and is before he was appointed Group Financial administration, and Europe, Africa and the a member of the Financial Reporting Council.
Prior to joining British Gas plc, he Middle East.
He was appointed a director of c, e, f trained as a chartered accountant, working Citicorp and its principal subsidiary, Citibank, 10 Lord Sharman 63 in South Africa and London.
a, b, d in 1985 and vice chairman in 1988.
He is a Non-Executive Director director of Actis Capital LLP, The Enstar Group Lord Sharman was appointed to the Board 5 Peter Backhouse 54 and a director and vice chairman of Nokia Non-Executive Director as a non-executive Director with effect Corporation.
c, e, f Peter Backhouse was appointed to the Board from 23 October 2000.
He is currently as a non-executive Director with effect from non-executive chairman of Aegis Group plc 8 Jrgen Dormann 66 19 July 2000.
He was formerly executive vice Non-Executive Director and Aviva plc, and a non-executive director president, refining and marketing at BP Jrgen Dormann was appointed to the Board of Reed Elsevier plc.
He is also a member of Amoco plc.
Previous roles at BP included as a non-executive Director with effect from the supervisory board of ABN Amro NV.
A deputy chief executive of BP Oil and chief 1 June 2005.
He became chairman of Swisschartered accountant, he was chairman executive of BP Oil Europe.
He gained based ABB Ltd in 2001 and chief executive in of KPMG International from 1997 to 1999, considerable gas experience in international 2002, having been a non-executive director having been a senior partner since 1994. c LNG and in UK natural gas as head of BPs UK since 1998.
He stepped down as chief gas marketing business.
He is also a member executive on 1 January 2005, continuing his of the advisory board of Carlyle Riverstone role as chairman.
Prior to his roles at ABB, Energy Partners, a US private equity fund.
he had a successful career at Hoechst and c, f, g Aventis spanning almost 40 years.
He is vice chairman of the board at Sanofi-Aventis 6 Sir John Coles GCMG 68 France and at Adecco S. A. Switzerland and Non-Executive Director is a member of the board at IBM USA.
f, g Sir John Coles was appointed to the Board of BG plc as a non-executive Director in March 1998.
He had a 37 year career with the Foreign and Commonwealth Office FCO and retired as Permanent Under-Secretary of State in the FCO and Head of the Diplomatic Service in November 1997.
He is chairman of Sight Savers International.
f, g Membership of committees a Group Executive b Chairmans c Audit d Finance e Nominations f Remuneration g Corporate Responsibility BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 BGReview 16-19. qxd 13 3 06 1:00 pm Page 16 Summary Directors report A full description of BG Groups financial Further explanations of disposals and PROGRESS AND OUTLOOK performance is set out in the BG Group Annual re-measurements are given in note 2, page 71 The progress and future development of 16 Report and Accounts 2005 or on our website.
and note 6, page 81, of the BG Group Annual BG Groups businesses is discussed on Report and Accounts 2005. pages 4 to 10.
BG Group has four main business segments: Exploration and Production: Liquefied Natural EARNINGS PER SHARE AND RATIOS ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Gas: Transmission and Distribution and Earnings for the financial year excluding The Annual General Meeting AGM will be Power Generation.
An explanation of each disposals and re-measurements were held at 11.00am on Friday 28 April 2006 at the segment can be found on pages 7 to 10 of 1 357 million, compared to 829 million in International Convention Centre, Birmingham.
Earnings per share, excluding disposals The Notice of AGM, which includes an and re-measurements, increased from explanation of the proposed resolutions DIRECTORS 23.5 pence in 2004 to 38.3 pence in 2005. including two special resolutions, is set The names of the current Directors and Earnings and earnings per share including out on pages 24 to 27. their biographical details are given on pages disposals and re-measurements were 14 to 15.
IFRS 1 528 million 2004 886 million and From 1 January 2005, BG Group is required to Keith Mackrell, Elwyn Eilledge and Dame Stella 43.2 pence 2004 25.1 pence respectively.
prepare its consolidated Financial Statements Rimington were non-executive Directors until BG Groups post-tax return on average capital in accordance with International Financial their retirement on 4 May 2005. employed ROACE was 23.4% compared to Reporting Standards IFRS endorsed by the DISPOSALS AND RE-MEASUREMENTS 17.6% in 2004.
Further details on the Business Performance excludes certain DIVIDEND restatement of the results previously disposals and re-measurements and is In considering the dividend level, the Board reported under UK GAAP are given in note 33, presented as exclusion of these items takes account of the outlook for earnings page 118, of the BG Group Annual Report and provides readers with a clear and consistent growth, cash flow generation and financial Accounts 2005. presentation of the underlying performance gearing.
The Groups cash flows are becoming of the Groups ongoing business.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT more substantial and durable as a number of The independent Auditors report on the Re-measurements included within revenue material, longer life assets come into full financial statements for the year ended and other operating income amounted to a operation.
Given the strong financial position 31 December 2005 and on the auditable part non-cash charge of 240 million, of which and outlook the Board believes it is now of the Remuneration report was unqualified 224 million represented mark-to-market appropriate to rebase the dividend.
The Board and did not contain a statement concerning movements on certain long-term UK gas is recommending a final dividend of accounting records or failure to obtain contracts which fall within the scope of IAS 39.
4.09 pence per share bringing the full year necessary information and explanations.
dividend to 6.00 pence per share, an increase In 2005, the profit on disposal of non-current of 57% compared with last year.
The final The independent Auditors report did not assets of 446 million principally related to dividend will be paid to UK shareholders on contain a statement under Section 237 2 a profit of 416 million on the disposal of 12 May 2006 19 May 2006 to American or 237 3 of the Companies Act 1985.
BG Groups 16.67% interest in the North Depositary Receipt holders.
Caspian Sea Production Sharing Agreement This summary Financial Statement was and the deconsolidation of GASA and its Following the rebasing of the dividend, it is signed on behalf of the Board on subsidiary MetroGAS resulting in a gain of the intention of the Board to continue to 8 March 2006 by: 56 million, offset by losses on the disposal of increase the dividend in line with underlying the Groups telecom businesses of 32 million.
Ashley Almanza, Chief Financial Officer BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 BGReview 16-19. qxd 13 3 06 1:01 pm Page 17 Summary Remuneration report This report provides a summary of BG Groups The central premise of the policy is that, ANNUAL INCENTIVE SCHEME remuneration policy.
The full Remuneration while reward arrangements should be market The Company operates a cash based annual 17 report is set out on pages 51 to 61 of the competitive, employees should look to incentive scheme, which in 2005, provided Annual Report and Accounts 2005. performance related incentives rather than an incentive opportunity in the range of base salaries to earn above average reward.
The Committee Responsibility for reviewing Group Performance related incentive schemes form establishes the performance measures and remuneration strategy and policy, a significant proportion of the total reward the Board sets challenging stretch and recommending any changes and approving package for executives and are designed to budget financial performance targets.
individual remuneration arrangements for align their interests with those of Incentives at the higher end of the range are the Executive Directors rests with the shareholders and establish a clear link payable only for demonstrably superior Remuneration Committee, which consists between pay and performance.
exclusively of independent non-executive a Directors.
The Committee reviews the To implement our policy, we have a wellFor the Executive Directors, the financial remuneration policy on a regular basis and developed, Group-wide performance performance measures for the 2005 incentive b recommends changes as and when management system and we operate three year were earnings per share EPS and c appropriate.
During the year, the Committee complementary performance related return on average capital employed ROACE.
performed a review of the incentive schemes incentive schemes for executives, namely the Both these measures were adjusted to take and, based on this review, is satisfied that the Annual Incentive Scheme AIS, the Long Term into account the volatility of upstream prices incentive schemes continue to be appropriate Incentive Scheme LTIS and the Company and the UK US$ exchange rate.
The and have been operated effectively.
During Share Option Scheme CSOS.
Further details Committee has decided that the same 2006, the Committee will continue to review of the AIS, the LTIS and the CSOS are set out financial performance measures will apply to the operation of the incentive schemes to later in this report.
the AIS for 2006 and also that it will review ensure optimal performance alignment.
the future operation of the Scheme.
In defining BG Groups remuneration policy, the SUMMARY REMUNERATION POLICY Committee takes into account advice received When determining actual incentive payments, BG Group needs to be able to employ and from external consultants and also best practice the Committee considers overall Group retain international employees of the highest guidelines set by institutional shareholder performance, including financial performance, calibre.
The catchment area for recruitment is bodies, including the principles and guidelines performance against the annual work increasingly outside the UK and the talent on executive remuneration issued by the programme and health, safety, security and required is scarce.
Association of British Insurers ABI.
environmental performance, performance relative to peers, and individual performance.
The overriding objectives of our remuneration BASE SALARIES policy are: Changes to Executive Directors salaries Payments under the AIS are non-pensionable.
took effect from 1 April following a review to enable the recruitment and retention of of individual performance and market this limited resource: and competitiveness, with reference to the to reinforce our strong performance ethic.
Pensionable salary is derived from base salary only.
a Membership of the Remuneration Committee is shown on pages 14 and 15. b EPS is calculated by dividing the earnings for the financial year excluding disposals and re-measurements by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue and ranking for dividend during the year.
EPS is published quarterly when BG Group reports its results.
c Average capital employed consists of total shareholders funds plus commodity financial instruments including associated deferred tax and net funds borrowings, averaged between the start and the end of the year.
Return on average capital employed represents profit before tax excluding disposals and re-measurements plus net finance costs payable on net funds borrowings as a percentage of average capital employed.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 BGReview 16-19. qxd 13 3 06 1:02 pm Page 18 Summary Remuneration report continued LONG TERM INCENTIVE SCHEME Allocations made prior to 2002 were subject exercised.
These performance targets also to a one year retention period.
The Committee has A limited number of key employees are 18 allocated Company shares under the LTIS.
shareholders approved the removal of this decided to remove fixed point retests for retention period for allocations made in 2002 grants made from 21 July 2004 onwards.
This allocation marks the beginning of a and onwards.
Accordingly, the allocations made three year performance period.
The Companys All of the Executive Directors exercised CSOS a in 2001 and 2002 were both transferred during total shareholder return TSR performance options during the year.
The aggregate value of shares transferred against that of a comparator group over was 74 720. to Executive Directors was 6 683 565. the three year period will determine what ALL-EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES proportion of the allocated shares will COMPANY SHARE OPTION SCHEME In order to encourage share ownership, the be transferred into the ownership of The Company grants an option over its shares Company currently provides two all-employee the employee.
to each eligible employee and the option share schemes for its UK employees, the Share price is set at the fair market value at the The LTIS comparator group for the 2005 Incentive Plan SIP and the Sharesave Scheme.
The CSOS measures allocation comprises 19 international oil and PENSION performance according to EPS growth relative gas companies including BG Group plc of The Executive Directors are members to the growth in the Retail Price Index, which 11 are headquartered in the USA, three of the BG Pension Scheme and the BG excluding mortgage interest repayments in the UK and five elsewhere in Europe.
The calculation of EPS growth for grants accrue at a rate designed to target a pension since July 2004 has been made using constant For the 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005 LTIS equivalent to two-thirds of their final commodity prices and constant exchange allocations, the Committee has set the 12 months salary on retirement from rates.
To the extent that the performance following performance conditions.
For 100% BG Group at age 60, inclusive of pension target has been met three years from the date of the allocated shares to be transferred, the rights earned either in previous employments of grant, the option may be exercised in whole Company must achieve the Number One TSR or previous pension arrangements.
or in part at any time up to the expiry of ten performance position within the comparator years from the date of grant.
Seventy-five per cent of shares will be SERVICE CONTRACTS The Executive Directors service contracts, transferred if upper quartile TSR performance For the 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005 grants, including arrangements for early termination, is achieved.
A proportion of between 75% and the Committee set the following performance are carefully considered by the Committee and 100% of the allocated shares will be transferred targets.
For all of the option to be exercisable, are designed to recruit, retain and motivate for between upper quartile and Number the Company must achieve EPS growth over Directors of the quality required to manage One performance.
Thirty per cent of the three years of RPIX plus 30%.
The Committee considers that allocated shares will be transferred if median option will be exercisable if EPS growth over a notice period of one year is appropriate.
A proportion of three years is RPIX plus 15%.
A proportion of between 30% and 75% of the allocated shares between half and all of the option will be The Executive Directors service contracts will be transferred for between median and exercisable if the Company achieves EPS contain provisions which provide for upper quartile performance.
Below the growth over three years of RPIX plus between liquidated damages to be paid if the 15% and 30%.
Below this, the option cannot be median, all shares will be forfeited.
Directors employment is terminated within a TSR is defined as the return on investment obtained from holding a companys shares over a period.
It includes dividends paid, the change in the capital value of the shares and other payments to, or by, shareholders within the period.
TSR is calculated on a common currency basis to ensure that international comparisons are fair.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 BGReview 16-19. qxd 12 3 06 11:18 am Page 19 12 months of a change of control of the CHAIRMAN Company.
The amount of liquidated damages Sir Robert Wilson was appointed as Chairman 19 is equal to one years gross salary and a credit with effect from 1 January 2004.
In line with of one years pensionable service less any the non-executive Directors, Sir Roberts deductions the employer is required to make.
appointment is for an initial three year term Other than change of control, the Executive and there is no notice period and no provision Directors service contracts do not contain for payment in the event of early termination.
provisions for compensation in the event of The fee paid to Sir Robert Wilson was early termination.
reviewed during the year and revised to 550 000 per annum effective 1 July 2005, NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS which is next subject to review in Non-executive Directors are paid a basic annual December 2006. fee of 57 500.
Additional fees are also payable, for example, for membership of or chairing a The graph below shows BG Groups TSR committee of the Board or acting as Senior performance for the five year period ended Independent Director.
Fees are reviewed 31 December 2005 calculated in accordance annually, taking into account time commitment, with the Directors Remuneration Report competition for high quality non-executive Regulations 2002 against the performance of directors and market movements.
We have chosen the FTSE 100 because this is a recognised broad equity Non-executive Directors are not eligible market index of which the Company to participate in any of the Companys is a member.
share schemes, incentive schemes or pension schemes.
Historical TSR performance Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding of BG Group plc shares over the five year period ended 31 December 2005.
250 200 150 100 50 0 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 BG Group based on spot values FTSE 100 based on spot values Sour ce: Towers Perrin BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 BGReview 20-23. qxd 13 3 06 1:03 pm Page 20 Summary Directors emoluments, pension benefits and shareholdings Total Total Beneficial Beneficial emoluments emoluments Accrued Accrued interests in interests in excluding excluding annual annual ordinary ordinary 20 pension a pension a pension pension shares f shares f 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 000 pa 000 pa No.
b Total emoluments of Executive Directors include payments under the AIS in respect of 2004 and 2005. c Each non-executive Director is entitled to a fee of 57 500 per annum together with a fee of 5 000 per annum for membership of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility and Remuneration committees, other than for the chairmen of those committees.
The chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration committees received an additional fee of 10 000 per annum until 30 June 2004.
From 1 July 2004, this increased to 15 000 for chairing the Audit Committee.
A fee of 10 000 per annum for chairing the Corporate Responsibility Committee was introduced with effect from 15 March 2005.
From 4 May 2005, Paul Collins received a fee of 20 000 per annum as Senior Independent Director.
d Keith Mackrell, as Deputy Chairman of the Company, received an additional fee of 70 000 per annum until he retired as Director on 4 May 2005.
Elwyn Eilledge and Dame Stella Rimington also retired as Directors on 4 May 2005. e Sir Richard Giordano retired as Chairman on 31 December 2003.
Until 31 December 2005, the Company paid reasonable fees incurred by his tax advisers as provided in his contract of employment.
Sir Richard continues to be entitled to private medical insurance and long-term care insurance.
The long-term care insurance is being paid by ten instalments.
f Interests include shares acquired pursuant to the SIP but exclude interests in shares under the LTIS, CSOS and Sharesave Scheme.
com ara BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 BGReview 20-23. qxd 12 3 06 11:19 am Page 21 Independent Auditors statement to the members of BG Group plc We have examined the Summary Financial Statements, set out on pages 16 to 23 BASIS OF OPINION of this document.
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The auditors 21 statement on the Summary Financial Statement issued by the Auditing Practices RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS Board for use in the United Kingdom.
The Directors are responsible for preparing this summarised Annual Review in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion OPINION on the consistency of the Summary Financial Statements within this summarised In our opinion the Summary Financial Statements are consistent with the Annual Review with the Annual Report and Accounts, Directors report and the Annual Report and Accounts, the Directors report and the Remuneration Remuneration report of BG Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 and report of BG Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 and comply with its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the Companies the applicable requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and the Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other regulations made thereunder.
information contained in this summarised Annual Review and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statements.
This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the  LLP Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or 1 Embankment Place assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this London WC2N 6RH 8 March 2006 statement is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 BGReview 20-23. qxd 13 3 06 1:05 pm Page 22 Summary consolidated income statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 2004 22 Business Disposals and Business Disposals and Performance a re-measurements a Total Performance a re-measurements a Total m m m m m m Group revenue 5 612 5 612 4 053 4 053 Other operating income 52 240 188 10 10 Group revenue and other operating income 5 664 240 5 424 4 063 4 063 Operating costs 3 526 3 526 2 743 2 743 Profit loss on disposal of non-current assets 446446 8787 Operating profit before share of results from joint ventures and associates 2 138 206 2 344 1 320 87 1 407 Finance income 75 30 105 42 42 Finance costs 85 15 100 75 75 Share of post-tax results from joint ventures and associates 160 160 125 125 Profit before tax 2 288 221 2 509 1 412 87 1 499 Taxation 900 41 941 555 30 585 Profit for the year 1 388 180 1 568 857 57 914 Profit attributable to: Minority interests 31 9 40 28 28 Shareholders earnings 1 357 171 1 528 829 57 886 1 388 180 1 568 857 57 914 b Earnings per ordinary share: Basic 38.3p 4.9p 43.2p 23.5p 1.6p 25.1p Diluted 38.2p 4.8p 43.0p 23.4p 1.6p 25.0p Total operating profit including share of pre-tax operating results from joint ventures and associates 2 380 206 2 586 1 513 87 1 600 Dividends per ordinary share: Interim 1.91p 1.73p Final 4.09p 2.08p 6.00p 3.81p Capital expenditure including investment m 1 516 1 894 Average number of employees 5 363 4 836 a Business Performance represents the underlying performance of BG Group, excluding the impact of disposals and certain re-measurements for further information, see page 16. b Basic profit attributable to shareholders divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Diluted as per basic but assuming the issue of new ordinary shares on exercise of all the share options which have been granted.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 BGReview 20-23. qxd 12 3 06 11:19 am Page 23 Business segmental analysis Disposals and Business Performance re-measurements Total 23 for the year ended 31 December 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 m m m m m m Operating profit loss before share of results from joint ventures and associates Exploration and Production 1 942 1 189 178 46 2 120 1 235 Liquefied Natural Gas 61 27 1 19 60 46 Transmission and Distribution 169 108 61 230 108 Power Generation 24 28 24 28 Other activities 58 32 32 22 90 10 2 138 1 320 206 87 2 344 1 407 Pre-tax share of operating results of joint ventures and associates Liquefied Natural Gas 111 65 111 65 Transmission and Distribution 42 40 42 40 Power Generation 89 88 89 88 242 193 242 193 Total operating profit Exploration and Production 1 942 1 189 178 46 2 120 1 235 Liquefied Natural Gas 172 92 1 19 171 111 Transmission and Distribution 211 148 61 272 148 Power Generation 113 116 113 116 Other activities 58 32 32 22 90 10 2 380 1 513 206 87 2 586 1 600 Summary consolidated balance sheets as at 31 December 2005 2004 m m Non-current assets 7 935 6 530 Current assets 3 385 1 629 Assets classified as held for sale 10 530 Total assets 11 330 8 689 Current liabilities 2 499 1 817 Non-current liabilities 2 548 2 218 Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale 3 67 Total liabilities 5 050 4 102 6 280 4 587 Total shareholders equity 6 182 4 567 Minority interest in equity 98 20 Total equity 6 280 4 587 BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 BGReview 24-28. qxd 12 3 06 11:31 am Page 24 Notice of seventh Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc The seventh Annual General Meeting AGM of BG Group plc the Company will Resolution 7 be held in Hall 1 of the International Convention Centre, Birmingham B1 2EA on To re-elect Ashley Almanza as a Director of the Company.
24 Friday 28 April 2006 at 11.00am for the transaction of the business set out below.
Resolution 8 This Notice contains the resolutions to be voted on at the Companys AGM.
To re-elect Sir John Coles as a Director of the Company.
Resolutions 1 to 12 below are ordinary resolutions that will be passed if more than 50% of the votes cast are in favour of the resolutions.
Resolutions 13 and 14 are Resolution 9 special resolutions that will be passed if not less than 75% of the votes cast are To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors of the Company, to hold in favour of the resolutions.
office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid A poll will be called on each of the resolutions set out below.
Further details are set out in the explanatory notes.
Resolution 10 To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the remuneration of the Auditors.
ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS Resolution 11 Resolution 1 That in accordance with Part XA of the Companies Act 1985 as amended the To receive the accounts and reports of the Directors and the Auditors for the year Act, the Company and its wholly owned subsidiary BG International Limited ended 31 December 2005. each be and is hereby authorised: Resolution 2 a to make donations to EU political organisations not exceeding 25 000 in To approve the Remuneration report as set out on pages 51 to 61 of the BG Group total: and Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005. b to incur EU political expenditure not exceeding 25 000 in total: Resolution 3 during the period commencing on the date of this resolution and ending To declare a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2005 of on the date of the AGM of the Company in 2007 or, if earlier, 28 July 2007.
4.09 pence per ordinary share payable on 12 May 2006 to holders of ordinary For the purpose of this resolution, donations, EU political organisations and EU shares on the register of shareholders of the Company at the close of business political expenditure have the meanings given to them in Section 347A of the Act.
Resolution 12 Resolution 4 That the authority conferred on the Directors by Article 12.2 of the Companys To elect Jrgen Dormann as a Director of the Company.
Articles of Association be renewed and for this purpose: Resolution 5 a the Section 80 amount be 123 379 866: and To re-elect Sir Robert Wilson as a Director of the Company.
b the prescribed period be the period ending on the date of the AGM of the Company in 2007 or, if earlier, 28 July 2007.
Resolution 6 To re-elect Frank Chapman as a Director of the Company.
If you are in any doubt about its content, you i copies of all Directors service contracts and letters of appointment: should consult an appropriate independent adviser.
ii the register of interests of the Directors in the share capital of the If you have sold or transferred all of your shares in BG Group plc, please send Company: and this document and all accompanying documents to the purchaser or iii the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company.
transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through or to whom the 3 The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities sale or transfer was effected so that they can be passed on to the person who Regulations 1995, specifies that only those holders of ordinary shares now owns the shares.
registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6.00pm on 2 The following documents, which are available for inspection during normal 26 April 2006 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the AGM in respect of the business hours at the registered office of the Company on any weekday number of ordinary shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excluded, will also be available for to entries on the register of members after 6.00pm on 26 April 2006 shall inspection at the place of the AGM from 10.00am on the day of the Meeting be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote until its conclusion: at the Meeting.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 BGReview 24-28. qxd 13 3 06 1:10 pm Page 25 d the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the date of the AGM of the SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS Company in 2007 or, if earlier, 28 July 2007: but a contract for purchase may 25 be made before such expiry, that will or may be executed wholly or partly Resolution 13 thereafter, and a purchase of ordinary shares may be made in pursuance of That the Directors be empowered to allot equity securities as defined in Section any such contract.
94 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended the Act, entirely paid for in cash: Registered Office: By order of the Board a of an unlimited amount in connection with a rights issue as defined in the 100 Thames Valley Park Drive Ben Mathews Companys Articles of Association : and Reading Company Secretary b otherwise than in connection with a rights issue, of an amount up to Berkshire RG6 1PT 17 652 373, free of the restrictions in Section 89 1 of the Act provided that: Registered in England & Wales No.
3690065 8 March 2006 i this power shall expire on the date of the AGM of the Company in 2007 or, A shareholder entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies if earlier, 28 July 2007 and is in substitution for all previous such powers, to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of him her.
A proxy need not be a which shall cease to have effect from the date of this Resolution, without shareholder of the Company.
Further details on how to appoint a proxy are given affecting the validity of any allotment of securities already made under on page 27. them: and EXPLANATORY NOTES ii during that period, the Directors can make offers and enter into agreements that would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted In line with the recommendations by Paul Myners and the Shareholder Voting after that period.
Working Group issued in January 2004 the Myners Report, which the Company In working out the maximum amount of equity securities for the purposes of has met in full since 2004, voting at the Meeting will be by poll rather than by show of hands.
The Chairman will invite each shareholder and proxy present at paragraph b above, the nominal value of rights to subscribe for shares or to convert any securities into shares will be taken as the nominal value of the shares the meeting to complete a poll card indicating how they wish to cast their votes in respect of each resolution.
In addition, the Chairman will cast the votes for that would be allotted if the subscription or conversion takes place.
which he has been appointed as proxy.
Poll cards will be collected at the end of For the purposes of this Resolution: the meeting and the preliminary results declared.
Once the results have been a references except in paragraph b below to an allotment of equity securities verified by the Companys Registrar, they will be notified to the UK Listing Authority and published on the Companys website.
shall include a sale of Treasury shares: and b the power granted by this Resolution, insofar as it relates to the allotment of Annual Report and Accounts Resolution 1 equity securities rather than the sale of Treasury shares, is granted pursuant The Directors are required to lay before the Meeting the accounts of the Company to the authority under Section 80 of the Act conferred by Resolution 12. for the financial year ended 31 December 2005, the Directors report, the Remuneration report and the Auditors report on the accounts and the auditable Resolution 14 part of the Remuneration report.
That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of Remuneration report Resolution 2 ordinary shares of 10 pence each of the Company ordinary shares provided that: UK listed companies must put an ordinary resolution to shareholders at the AGM a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be acquired is seeking approval of the Remuneration report.
The vote is advisory in nature, in 353 047 470: that payments made or promised to Directors will not have to be repaid in the event that the resolution is not passed.
b the minimum price that may be paid for any such ordinary share is 10 pence, the nominal value of that share: Declaration of a dividend Resolution 3 c the maximum price that may be paid for any such ordinary share is an amount A final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2005 of 4.09 pence per ordinary equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share is recommended by the Directors.
A final dividend can be paid only after it has share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five been declared by the shareholders at a general meeting.
It is proposed that business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is contracted shareholders declare this dividend by passing Resolution 3.
If so declared, the final to be purchased: and dividend will be paid on 12 May 2006 to ordinary shareholders who were on the register of the Company at the close of business on 31 March 2006.
ADS holders will be entitled to receive the US Dollar equivalent of 0.2045 per ADS on 19 May 2006.
An interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2005 of 1.91 pence per ordinary share was paid on 16 September 2005.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 BGReview 24-28. qxd 13 3 06 4:46 pm Page 26 Notice of seventh Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc continued Election of Jrgen Dormann Resolution 4 Authority to allot shares Resolution 12 The Companys Articles of Association require any Director newly appointed by the The Directors are currently authorised to allot relevant securities.
However, this 26 Board to retire at the first AGM following their appointment.
Jrgen Dormann authority terminates on the date of the 2006 AGM.
This resolution proposes that was appointed to the Board as a non-executive Director on 1 June 2005.
He is a such authority be renewed and that the Directors be authorised to allot up to member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee and the Remuneration 1 233 798 657 ordinary shares for the period ending on the date of the Companys 1 Committee.
Biographical details of Jrgen Dormann are given on page 15.
The authority represents 33 3% excluding reviewing the recommendation of the Nominations Committee concerning Treasury shares of the share capital of the Company in issue at 3 March 2006 this election, the Board has concluded that Jrgen Dormann is independent in together with shares outstanding under BG Groups option schemes.
This amount character and judgment and makes an effective and valuable contribution to the complies with guidelines issued by investor bodies.
The Directors have no present Board and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The Board unanimously intention of issuing any relevant securities other than pursuant to employee recommends his election.
Re-election of Directors Resolutions 5 to 8 Disapplication of pre-emption rights Resolution 13 Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders every three years.
Biographical The Directors are currently authorised to allot unissued shares for cash without details of the Directors proposed to be re-elected namely Sir Robert Wilson, first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings a preFrank Chapman, Ashley Almanza and Sir John Coles, are shown on pages 14 and 15. emptive offer.
However, this authority terminates on the date of the 2006 AGM.
In reviewing the recommendation of the Nominations Committee concerning This resolution proposes that such authority be renewed and that the Directors be these re-elections, the Board has concluded that Sir John Coles is independent in authorised to allot up to 176 523 735 ordinary shares for cash without a precharacter and judgment.
In addition and, following the annual evaluation exercise emptive offer being made for the period ending on the date of the Companys conducted during the year, the Board considers that each of the Directors AGM in 2007 or, if earlier, 28 July 2007.
Following the introduction of the Treasury proposed for re-election continues to make an effective and valuable contribution Shares Regulations, this authority will now also cover the sale of Treasury shares and demonstrates commitment to the role.
Accordingly, the Board unanimously for cash.
The authority represents approximately 5% of the share capital in issue at recommends their re-election.
This amount complies with guidelines issued by investor bodies.
Re-appointment and remuneration of Auditors Resolutions 9 and 10 Authority to make market purchases of own ordinary shares The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general meeting at which Resolution 14 accounts are laid before the Company, to hold office until the next such meeting.
In certain circumstances, it may be advantageous for the Company to purchase its Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Directors propose own ordinary shares and Resolution 14 seeks authority from shareholders to do so.
that  LLP be reappointed as Auditors of the Company.
The resolution specifies the maximum number of shares that may be acquired Resolution 10 proposes that the Audit Committee be authorised to determine the 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital and the maximum and level of the Auditors remuneration.
minimum prices at which they may be bought.
Any shares purchased in this way will, unless the Directors determine that they Political donations Resolution 11 are to be held as Treasury shares, be cancelled and the number of shares in issue As stated in the Companys Statement of Business Principles, it is the Companys will be reduced accordingly.
Shares held in treasury will not automatically be policy not to make contributions to political parties.
This policy is strictly adhered cancelled and will not be taken into account in future calculations of earnings per to and there is no intention to change it.
Section 347A of the Companies Act 1985 share unless they are subsequently resold or transferred out of treasury.
the Act includes very broad definitions of donations to EU political organisations and of EU political expenditure that may have the effect of On 8 November 2005, the Company announced its intention to make market purchases of up to 1 billion of shares and to hold these shares in treasury.
During covering a number of normal business activities that would not be thought to be political donations in the usual sense.
To avoid any possibility of inadvertently the period 8 November 2005 to 3 March 2006, the Company purchased 20 094 000 shares representing 0.57% of the total share capital of the Company at a total contravening the Act, the Directors consider that it would be prudent to follow the procedure specified in the Act to obtain shareholder approval for the cost of 118 million including dealing costs.
These shares are held in treasury in accordance with Section 162 A of the Companies Act 1985.
No dividends are paid Company and BG International Limited each to make donations to EU political organisations of up to 25 000 and to incur EU political expenditure of up to on and no voting rights attach to Treasury shares.
Any Treasury shares sold by the Company will count towards the number of shares that, if Resolution 13 is passed, 25 000 in the forthcoming year.
BG International Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company and is the largest employer in the Group.
This may be issued without offering them first to existing shareholders.
authority will not be used to make any political donations as that expression As the existing shareholder approval to purchase shares expires at the 2006 AGM, would have been understood before Part XA of the Act became law.
purchases after that date are subject to renewed shareholder approval at the AGM.
The Directors will use the authority to purchase shares only after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall financial position of the BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 BGReview 24-28. qxd 13 3 06 1:12 pm Page 27 Company.
The Directors will only purchase such shares after taking into account to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
the effects on earnings per share and the benefit for shareholders.
After this time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST 27 should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
The total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding at 3 March 2006 is 57.0 million.
This represents 1.61% of the issued share capital CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service at that date.
If the Company bought back the maximum number of shares providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures permitted pursuant to the passing of this resolution and cancelled them, then in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will the total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding at that therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the date would represent 1.79% of the issued share capital as reduced following responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member those repurchases.
At 3 March 2006, there are no warrants to subscribe for is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting ordinary shares outstanding.
service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST Recommendation Your Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of all the above members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning resolutions as they intend to do so themselves in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances Appointing a proxy set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
A proxy form is enclosed with this Notice and instructions for its use are shown on the form.
Proxies must be submitted by 11.00am on Wednesday 26 April 2006 Summary of AGM business to Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DW.
A summary of the business carried out at the Meeting will be published on the Details of how to submit your proxy electronically are given below.
com Electronic proxy voting Shareholders may register the appointment of a proxy for the AGM electronically at www.
co. uk, a website operated by the Companys Registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Shareholders are advised to read the terms and conditions, shown on the website, relating to the use of this facility before appointing a proxy.
Any electronic communication sent by a shareholder that is found to contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
Electronic communication facilities are available to all shareholders and those who use them will not be disadvantaged in any way.
Electronic proxy appointment through CREST CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the AGM to be held on 28 April 2006 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by 11.00am on Wednesday 26 April 2006.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 BGReview 24-28. qxd 12 3 06 1:09 pm Page 28 Shareholder information DIRECTIONS TO THE AGM BG GROUP CORPORATE INDIVIDUAL SAVINGS ACCOUNTS ISAs The map opposite shows the location of the ICC, the venue for the AGM.
Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management Ltd, 2 Gresham Street, London 28 EC2V 7QN.
HOW TO FIND OUT MORE ABOUT BG GROUP If you would like to learn more about our operations and business policies, the LOW COST SHARE DEALING SERVICES following publications are available on our website www.
com or on Information on a range of low cost share dealing services is available from request from the registered office address: Lloyds TSB Registrars on 0870 600 3951 or at www.
com dealing 2005 Annual Report and Accounts GIFTING YOUR SHARES To transfer your shares to another member of your family as a gift, please ask the 2005 Corporate Responsibility Report Registrar for a gift transfer form.
The completed transfer form with the relevant Statement of Business Principles share certificate s should be returned to the Registrar to record the change in ownership.
If you have a small number of shares and would like to donate them ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS to charity, please ask the Registrar for a ShareGift charity donation scheme Shareview, the electronic shareholder communications service from Lloyds transfer form.
Information is also available on the ShareGift website at TSB Registrars, gives you access to more information about your shareholding www.
org including balance movements, indicative share prices and information on recent dividend payments.
It also allows you to change your registered address details, ENQUIRIES ABOUT THE GROUP set up a dividend mandate or change your existing mandated details.
To register Enquiries relating to the Groups results, business and financial position should be for this free service, visit www.
co. uk and follow the simple instructions.
made in writing to the Head of Investor Relations, at the registered office address You will need your shareholder reference number, which can be found on your or by email to invrel@bg-group.
Through Shareview you can also register to receive Company ENQUIRIES ABOUT SHAREHOLDER MATTERS communications electronically.
Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
VOTING ELECTRONICALLY Telephone 0870 600 3951 or email bg@lloydstsb-registrars.
co. uk All shareholders can submit proxies for the AGM electronically at FINANCIAL CALENDAR www.
co. uk Ex-dividend for 2005 final dividend 29 March 2006 Alternatively, shareholders who have already registered with Shareview can appoint Record date for 2005 final dividend 31 March 2006 a proxy by logging on to Shareview and then clicking on Company meetings.
Annual General Meeting 28 April 2006 Payment of final dividend CONSOLIDATED TAX VOUCHERS Shareholders 12 May 2006 Shareholders who have elected to have their dividends paid directly into their bank ADR 19 May 2006 account receive just one tax voucher each year covering both the interim and final Financial year end 31 December 2006 dividend payments.
The consolidated tax voucher enclosed with this Annual Review covers all dividends paid during the 2005 2006 tax year.
If you have more than one shareholder account in the same name s you will receive a separate letter in respect of the shareholdings in addition to the one shown on the consolidated tax voucher enclosed with this Annual Review.
Shareholders wishing to receive a tax voucher in respect of each dividend payment should contact Lloyds TSB Registrars at the address shown right or call 0870 600 3951.
ALTERNATIVE FORMATS OVERSEAS DIVIDEND PAYMENTS To receive shareholder communications A service has been established to provide shareholders in over 30 countries with the opportunity to receive BG Group dividends in their local currency.
For a small in large print, Braille or audio, please flat rate fee, shareholders can have their dividends automatically converted from pounds Sterling and paid into their bank account, normally within five working contact Lloyds TSB Registrars on days of the dividend payment date.
For further details, please contact Lloyds TSB Registrars at the address below or call 44 0 121 415 7029. www.
org D a l e E S u n t. S m l o t s i r B m d 8 3 e Frederick Street Newhall Hill r A Pershore Street H Bull St i l Sheepcote Street reet l St. Hurst Street Hill Street A Suffolk St. Queensway Bull St. Livery Street D A457 San Cherry i g dpits Pinfold St. d E b Newhall Street Newhall Street l g e w t n h i U w o treet High b K R a n A41 Constitution Hill r e P i S m o r S m treet The NEC and The NEC Arena a u n S e S r d t New Street.
a r sway d t Lanc e ' New S n treet S s a e t. The NIA BGReview IBC.
6 Spaghetti Junction M40 M42 St Chad's Circus Colmore SNOW Circus HILL P P P i P i MOOR ST Brindleyplace NEW ST P P ICC BIRMINGHAM WHOLESALE M42 MARKETS Junc.
1 FIVE M5 M40 WAYS DIRECTIONS TO THE AGM Pedestrian area The map shows the location of the International Convention Centre ICC.
Free shuttle buses will run between Birmingham New Street Station and the ICC from 9.45am until one hour after the end of the meeting.
Car parking is available near the ICC as shown on the map.
Parking spaces for the disabled are available on request from the ICC.
Please call 0121 644 6006 if you wish to reserve a space.
Paradise Circus s e C Graham St. n Bath Row a t u m S S o Q t t e m r Road i t e s a St. Vincen The ICC & Symphony Hall Albert St. l b a ' l n Centenary Square b t r d S e rook Holloway Head M5 Navigatio Junc.
3 S t a r S e e g h d t ri e C St Q e t. e Colmore Row l h t t o S u eLane C u eat harl Gr C es s S t. Queensway e A456 BROAD STREET e i et rpo S Co ration tre Q n U n s E E Corporatio w r N S a S y W t t I ck ni r el A d. M Y id ee d c l t e w a us y S Corporation St. h g i H Ja m es Wat t Q u e e n s w a y BGReview Cover.
qxp 12 3 06 12:23 pm Page BC2 IMPORTANT NOTE This Annual Review is only a summary of information in the Companys accounts, Directors report and Remuneration report.
It does not contain sufficient information to allow for as full an understanding of the results of the Group and the state of affairs of the Company or the Group or of its policies and arrangements concerning Directors remuneration as would be provided by the full BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2005.
Shareholders who would like more detailed information may obtain a copy of the full Annual Report and Accounts for 2005 from our website www.
com alternatively, it is available free of charge from the Head of Investor Relations at the registered office address on this page.
If you wish to receive the full Annual Report and Accounts in future years please write to Lloyds TSB Registrars at their address, shown on page 28.
CAUTIONARY NOTE TO SHAREHOLDERS IN RELATION TO CERTAIN FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Review includes forward-looking information within the meaning of Section 27A of the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Certain statements included in this Annual Review, including, without limitation, those concerning a strategies, outlook and growth opportunities, b positioning to deliver future plans and to realise potential for growth, c delivery of the performance required to meet the 2006 targets, d expectations regarding gas and oil prices, e development of new markets, f the development and commencement of commercial operations of new projects, g liquidity and capital resources, h gas demand growth, i plans for capital and investment expenditure, j the economic outlook for the gas and oil industries, k regulation, l qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk and m statements preceded by believed, expected, likely to, scheduled, targeted, planned, proposed, intended or similar statements, contain certain forward-looking statements concerning the Groups operations, economic performance and financial condition.
1722 4 BG Group plc This Annual Review is printed on think bright.
This paper is produced from 100% ECF Elemental 100 Thames Valley Park Drive Chlorine Free pulp that is fully recyclable.
It has FSC Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT Forest Stewardship Council certification and has www.
com been manufactured within a mill that is registered under the British and international quality standard of BS EN ISO 9001-2000 and the environmental Registered in England & Wales No.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc.
Printed by Butler and Tanner
