Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Alliance & Leicester plc We have audited the Group and individual Company financial statements aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements of Alliance & Leicester plc for the year the financial statements.
ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated and individual Company balance sheets, Basis of audit opinion the consolidated and individual Company cash flow statements, the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards consolidated and individual company statements of recognised on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
income and expenses, and the related Notes 1 to 51.
These financial An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the out therein.
We have also audited the information in the directors part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the and adequately disclosed.
Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International been audited.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union, are set out in the Statement of Opinion Directors Responsibilities.
In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part accordance with IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union, of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and of its profit for the year then ended: regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing the individual Company financial statements give a true and fair UK and Ireland.
view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted for use in the European We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements Union as applied in accordance with the requirements of the give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant financial Companies Act 1985, of the state of the individual Companys reporting framework and whether the financial statements and the affairs as at 31 December 2005: part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been the financial statements and the part of the Directors audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Remuneration Report described as having been audited have been Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We report to you if, in properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and Separate opinion in relation to IFRS explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified As explained in Note 1, the Group in addition to complying with its by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions legal obligation to comply with IFRSs as adopted for use in the is not disclosed.
European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not complied International Accounting Standards Board.
Accordingly, in our opinion with any of the four directors remuneration disclosure requirements the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and Authority.
These comprise the amount of each element in the of its profit for the year then ended.
remuneration package and information on share options, details Deloitte & Touche LLP of long term incentive schemes, and money purchase and defined Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors benefit schemes.
We give a statement, to the extent possible, London, England of details of any non-compliance.
26 February 2006 We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the Directors Report and the other information contained in the Annual Report for the above year as described in the contents section, including the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, and we consider the implications for our report if we become 42 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2005
