Corporate Governance Statement of Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee and until 31 December 2005 was responsible for approving the Groups The composition and work of the Remuneration Committee and the credit, market and liquidity risk policies and reviewing Group credit and Groups remuneration policy is described in detail in the Directors market risk and related issues.
The Committee met five times during Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 41.
2005 and as at 31 December 2005 the Committee members were: Mr M P S Barton Chairman Group Audit & Risk Committee The Group Audit & Risk Committee comprised five non-executive Mr M R Aish Mrs J V Barker directors and until 31 December 2005 was responsible for the following areas: Mr R A Pym Mr M Thomas Risk and internal controls Mr S Baum risk management and internal controls: Mr R L Towers reviewing the annual Group Risk plan: A senior member of the Group Risk Department acted as the Secretary to the Committee and meetings were attended by the executive approving the annual internal audit and compliance plans directors, the Director of Corporate Banking and others as the and monitoring their progress: Committee thought necessary.
reviewing the annual report from the Group Money Laundering Reporting Officer.
Changes to Board Committees Following a review of Committee responsibilities the Group Board has Financial Reporting: reviewing replaced the Group Audit & Risk Committee and the Group Credit Policy the Annual Report & Accounts and Interim Results on behalf Committee with the Group Audit Committee and the Group Risk of the Group Board: Committee, both with effect from 1 January 2006. management representations: Group Audit Committee The Group Audit Committee has responsibility for financial reporting changes to accounting policy and compliance with best principles and the monitoring of internal controls on behalf of the Board, and and regulatory requirements: will approve the annual Compliance and Internal Audit plans.
recommending the appointment and re-appointment of Committee members recognise the importance of maintaining external auditors.
an effective system of internal controls to safeguard shareholders The Committee carried out all these activities during the year.
The Committee was scheduled to meet at least four times a year and The Committee comprises five independent non-executive directors and during 2005 met five times.
The additional meeting was arranged is attended by the Group Chief Executive, executive directors, the to enable the Committee to fully discuss the impact of International Director of Accounting & Taxation, the Director of Group Risk, the Financial Reporting Standards on the financial results of the Group.
Group Secretary, the Head of Group Internal Audit and a representative from Deloitte, the External Auditors.
During the year the Committee reviewed the level of fees in respect of audit services and oversaw the policy for engaging the Groups External The Committee members as at 26 February 2006 are: Auditors for audit and non-audit services details of this policy can be Mrs J V Barker Chairman found at www.
The Committee also reviewed Mr M R Aish the independence of the auditors on a regular basis during 2005 and Mr M P S Barton met separately the Head of Group Internal Audit and the Audit partner Mr R M McTighe from Deloitte, in both cases without any other attendee from the Group.
Mr E J Watts In addition, the Committee reviews the whistle blowing Miss A Ward, Head of Group Internal Audit, is the Secretary of the arrangements, ensuring that employees may raise concerns Group Audit Committee.
about possible improprieties in relation to the Groups business or financial reporting.
The Board considers that these members of the Committee have recent and relevant financial experience.
As at the 31 December 2005, the Committee members were: Group Risk Committee Mrs J V Barker Chairman The Group Risk Committee which has taken responsibility for all the Mr M P S Barton activities previously carried out by the Group Credit Policy Committee Mr M R Aish from 20 May 2005 reviews the management of business, market, credit and liquidity risks Mr R M McTighe and internal controls, and approves policies for the management of Mr E J Watts risk and internal control.
The Committee also receives the report from The Hon.
D Brougham resigned from the Committee on 7 May 2005 the Group Money Laundering Reporting Officer.
at the same time that his retirement from the Board took effect.
The Committee comprises three independent non-executive directors, The Board considers that these members of the Committee have the Group Chief Executive and the Director of Group Risk, and is recent and relevant financial experience.
attended by the other executive directors, the Directors of Credit & Risk for Wholesale Banking and Retail Banking, the Director Miss A Ward, Head of Group Internal Audit, was the Secretary of the of Lending, the Group Secretary, the Head of Group Internal Audit Group Audit & Risk Committee and meetings were attended by the and the Head of Group Compliance.
Group Chief Executive, the other executive directors, the Director of Accounting & Taxation, the Director of Group Risk, the Group The Committee members as at 26 February 2006 are: Secretary and representatives from Deloitte, the External Auditors.
Mr M R Aish Chairman Group Credit Policy Committee Mr M P S Barton The Group Credit Policy Committee comprised three non-executive Mrs J V Barker directors, the Group Chief Executive, the Director of Group Risk and the Mr R A Pym Directors of Credit and Risk for Retail Banking and Wholesale Banking, Mr M Thomas 32 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2005
