54 Incorporation The Alliance Trust PLC is incorporated in Scotland with the registered number 1731.
General Enquiries Incorporation If you have an enquiry about the Company please contact the Company Secretary at our registered office: General Enquiries Meadow House, 64 Reform Street, Dundee DD1 1TJ tel: 01382 201700 fax: 01382 225133 Information email: contact@alliancetrusts.
com For security and compliance monitoring purposes telephone Confidentiality calls may be recorded.
Change of address notifications and registration enquiries for Data Protection stockholdings registered in your own name should be sent to the Companys registrars, who should also be contacted if you Electronic Communications would like dividends on stock registered in your own name to be sent to your bank or building society account.
Our registrars are: Computershare Investor Services plc Taxation Lochside House, 7 Lochside Avenue, Edinburgh Park Edinburgh EH12 9DJ Risks tel: 0870 702 0000 You may check your holdings and view other information about Table of Adjusted Indices Alliance Trust stock registered in your own name at www.
Impact of Major Currencies Information Key Dates Our website www.
com contains information about the Company, including daily price, net asset value and discount information.
The Corporate Governance section of the website contains the terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
These are also available, on request, from the Company Secretary from whom the terms of appointment of the non-executive directors are also available.
Confidentiality We are unable to prevent other parties using the Companys register for marketing or other purposes.
If you wish to limit unsolicited mail, you may contact the Mailing Preference Service at DMA House, 70 Margaret Street, London W1W 8SS.
Data Protection The Company is a data controller as defined under the Data Protection Act 1998.
Information received from or about stockholders or investors for example from a stockbroker, whether by telephone or in writing, by fax or by any other electronic or digital means of communication may be processed.
