43 Financial Statements Accounting Policies 1 Basis of Accounting 4 Expenses and Interest The financial statements have been prepared under the Expenses and interest are accounted for on an accruals basis historical cost convention, modified to include the revaluation using the exchange rate applicable on payment where of fixed assets.
They assume the going concern basis of appropriate.
Expenses are charged through the revenue account accounting and that the Company will continue to have except where they directly relate to the acquisition or disposal approval as an investment trust.
They have been drawn up in of an investment, in which case they are added to the cost of accordance with applicable accounting standards and with the the investment or deducted from the proceeds.
Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies.
5 Taxation The consolidated statement of total return and balance sheet Deferred tax is recognised at the standard rate of corporation include the financial statements of the Company and its tax, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences subsidiary companies as at 31 January 2005, made up to the between the treatment of certain items for taxation and same date.
accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed out by the balance sheet date.
To the extent that timing differences 2 Valuation of Fixed Assets will not be utilised, then deferred assets are not recognised.
Listed investments are valued at market prices or middle market As the Company intends each year to qualify as an investment prices as appropriate.
Unlisted investments and mineral rights trust under section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes are valued by the board on the basis of market prices, latest Act 1988, no provision is made for deferred taxation in respect dealings, stockbrokers valuations, petroleum consultants of the capital gains that have been realised, or are expected in valuations and accounting information as appropriate.
Foreign the future to be realised, on the sale of fixed asset investments.
assets and liabilities are valued using the middle rates of exchange ruling at the year end.
6 Reserves Office premises are shown at the valuation as at 31 January Gains and losses on the realisation of investments and foreign 2004 carried out by chartered surveyors on the basis of existing currency are accounted for in the realised capital reserve.
No depreciation has been charged on this asset as, Increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held at in the opinion of the board, any provision for depreciation the year end are accounted for in the unrealised capital reserve.
would be immaterial in relation to the revenue for the year and the assets of the Company.
7 Pension Costs Employer contributions to pension arrangements for staff are 3 Income charged against revenue.
Income from equity shares is brought into account on the Contributions in respect of defined benefit provision are ex-dividend date or, where no ex-dividend date is quoted, when calculated by reference to actuarial valuations carried out for the Companys right to receive payment is established.
the Trustees at intervals of not more than three years, and Income includes any taxes deducted at source.
Fixed returns on represent a charge to cover the accruing liabilities on a non-equity shares and debt securities are recognised on a time continuing basis.
apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on the investment.
Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash, the amount of the cash dividend is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend is recognised in capital reserves.
Foreign income is converted at the rate of exchange applicable on the appropriate date.
Savings and pension plans charges are accounted for on the date on which the underlying transaction occurs.
