35 The Committee members are William Jack Chairman, William Accountability and Audit Berry and Christopher Masters.
Lesley Knox was a member until her appointment as Chairman of the Company in April 2004.
Directors Responsibility for the Accounts The directors are required by law to prepare financial Risk Management statements which give a true and fair view of the state of A key responsibility of the board is to understand the nature affairs of the Company and the Group at the end of the and extent of the risks which are inherent in carrying out the financial year and of the revenue and cash flows for the year.
In addition, the directors are responsible for ensuring that The board has approved a risk management policy for the adequate accounting records are maintained, for safeguarding Group.
We continue to improve our processes to identify and the assets of the Group and for taking reasonable steps to evaluate risks and to demonstrate that risks are managed on a prevent and detect fraud or other irregularities.
basis that does not compromise compliance with statute and The Company and the Group have, in the opinion of the regulatory provision or adherence to good business directors, adequate resources to continue operation as a going management.
Central to the risk management framework is concern for the foreseeable future, and the financial statements embedding an understanding of risk and ensuring that staff of the Company and the Group for the year ended 31 January take responsibility for the management of risk in the areas for 2005 have been prepared on that basis.
The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies, During 2004 an executive Risk Management Committee which consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent reports to the Chief Executive was established.
In addition, a judgements and estimates, have been used in their preparation non-executive Risk Review Committee was formed.
and that applicable accounting standards have been followed.
Risk Review Committee Audit Committee The Risk Review Committee is a new committee of the board The Audit Committee's duties include reviewing and reporting to which has been set up to enhance the risk management the board on: function during a period of substantial business change.
Its duties include reviewing the framework and procedures which The annual and interim financial statements and the are in place for controlling, monitoring and managing risks, and accounts, together with the form of proposed it advises the board on risk issues.
It considers whether the risk announcements and reports relating to the Company's management framework is dynamic with respect to both financial performance.
The Committee may commission The integrity and effectiveness of accounting and financial reports and explanations from management and third parties controls and the system of internal control.
where it considers risks are not being properly identified or managed, and it may agree appropriate action plans and The Committee has a specific function to review the scope and monitor progress against them.
It also reviews the minutes of effectiveness of the audits which are carried out by the external the Risk Management Committee meetings.
The Risk Review and internal auditors.
It reviews the independence and Committee members are Gordon McQueen Chairman, Lesley objectivity of the external auditors, supervises the function of Knox and Christopher Masters.
the internal audit and facilitates the work of both the external and internal auditors.
It reviews any non-audit services provided by the external auditor.
In 2004 the Committee put the external audit out to tender.
The board now recommends to stockholders, as it did after the tender process, that KPMG Audit Plc should be reappointed as auditor.
The Audit Committee is also the forum where any member of staff may, in confidence, raise matters of concern about possible improprieties in matters such as financial reporting, and it has the power to investigate any matters raised.
