Accounting policies Summary of significant accounting policies the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
Although these estimates Insurance contracts liabilities: claims Property and equipment The basis of preparation, consolidation principles and significant are based on managements best knowledge of current events and actions, Claims paid are defined as those claims transactions settled up to the Property and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated accounting policies adopted in the preparation of Amlin plcs the Groups actual outcomes may ultimately differ from those estimates.
balance sheet date including the internal and external claims settlement depreciation and provision for impairment where appropriate.
Depreciation financial statements are set out below.
expenses allocated to those transactions.
The reinsurers share represents is calculated on the straight line method to write down the cost of such Foreign currency translation recoveries received from reinsurance protections in the period plus assets to their residual values over their estimated useful lives as follows: Basis of preparation and consolidation principles The Group presents its accounts in sterling since it is subject to regulation in recoveries receivable against claims paid that have not been received at the Leasehold land and buildings over period of lease These consolidated financial statements are the first published financial the United Kingdom and the net assets of the Group are currently weighted balance sheet date, net of any provision for bad debt.
Motor vehicles 33% per annum statements of the Group prepared in accordance with International towards sterling.
US dollar revenue is significant but the sterling revenue Computer equipment 33% per annum Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use in the European stream is also currently material.
All group entities are incorporated in the Claims reserves are estimated on an undiscounted basis.
Provisions are Furniture, fixtures and leasehold improvements 20% per annum Union EU and that are applicable for accounting periods commencing United Kingdom with the exception of Amlin Bermuda Holdings Limited and subject to a detailed quarterly review where forecast future cash flows and after 1 January 2005.
The financial statements comply with Article 4 of the Amlin Bermuda Limited which are incorporated in Bermuda.
All group existing amounts provided are reviewed and reassessed.
Any changes to The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for EU IAS regulations.
entities conduct business in a range of economic environments, primarily the amounts held are adjusted through the income statement.
Provisions impairment when events or changes in circumstance indicate that the the United Kingdom, United States of America and Europe.
Due to the are established above an actuarial best estimate and so that there is a carrying value may be impaired.
If any such condition exists, the recoverable The balance sheet of the parent company has also been prepared in regulatory environment and the fact that the Group trades through the reasonable chance of release from one underwriting year to the next.
amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of accordance with IFRS.
In accordance with the exemption permitted under Lloyds market, all group companies incorporated in the United Kingdom impairment and the difference is charged to the income statement.
Section 230 of the Companies Act, the income statement of the parent have adopted sterling as their functional currency.
The group companies Claims reserves are made for known or anticipated liabilities under company is not presented as part of these accounts.
The profit after tax for incorporated in Bermuda have adopted the US dollar as their functional insurance contracts which have not been settled up to the balance sheet Gains and losses on disposal of property and equipment are determined by the year of the parent company was 66.1 million 2004: 5.3 million loss.
Included within the provision is an allowance for the future costs of reference to their carrying amount and are taken to the income statement.
This is estimated based on past experience and Repairs and renewals are charged to the income statement when the The financial statements consolidate the accounts of the Company, Income and expenditure in US dollars, Euros and Canadian dollars is current expectations of future cost levels.
its subsidiary undertakings, and the Groups underwriting through translated at average rates of exchange for the period.
Transactions participation on Lloyds syndicates.
denominated in other foreign currencies are translated using the exchange The claims provision also includes, where necessary, a reserve for Financial investments rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and unexpired risks where, at the balance sheet date, the estimated costs of The Group has classified its financial investments as fair value through The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis liabilities are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange at the balance future claims and related deferred acquisition costs are expected to exceed income FV to the extent that they are not reported as cash and cash except for financial investments, share options and pension assets and sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the average the unearned premium provision.
In determining the need for an unexpired equivalents.
This classification has been determined by management based liabilities which are measured at their fair value.
rate prevailing in the period in which the asset or liability first arose.
risk provision the underwriting divisions within the Group have been on the decision at the time of acquisition.
Within the FV category, fixed regarded as groups of business that are managed together.
maturity and equity securities are classified as trading as the Group buys Consolidated financial statements of the Group until 31 December 2004 Exchange differences arising from the conversion of overseas operations with the intention to resell.
All other securities are classified as other than had been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
UK GAAP differs in are accounted for through reserves.
Although the claims reserves is considered to be reasonable, having regard trading within the FV category.
In preparing these consolidated financial to previous claims experience including the use of certain statistically based statements, management has amended certain accounting, valuation and Where contracts to sell currency for sterling have been entered into prior to projections and case by case reviews of notified losses, on the basis of Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the trade date, consolidation methods applied in the UK GAAP financial statements to the year end, the contracted rates have been used.
Differences arising on information available at the date of determining the provision, the ultimate which is the date the Group commits to purchase or sell the assets.
The comparative figures in respect of 2004 have been the translation of foreign currency amounts on such items are included in liabilities will vary as a result of subsequent information and events.
are initially recognised at fair value, and subsequently re-measured at fair restated to reflect these adjustments.
This uncertainty is discussed further in the risk disclosures.
value based on quoted bid prices.
Changes in the fair value of investments are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
The reconciliations between the Groups consolidated UK GAAP and IFRS Insurance contracts premiums Net investment income balance sheets as at 1 January 2004 date of transition to IFRS and at Gross written premiums comprise premiums on insurance contracts Dividends and any related tax credits are recognised as income on the date In the Companys accounts, other financial investments in Group 31 December 2004 date of last UK GAAP financial statements and the incepting during the financial year.
The estimated premium income in the related listed investments are marked ex-dividend.
Other investment undertakings are stated at cost and are reviewed for impairment when events reconciliation of profit for 2004 as required by IFRS1, First time adoption of respect of facility contracts is deemed to be written in full at the inception of income, interest receivable, expenses and interest payable are recognised or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may be impaired.
International Financial Reporting Standards, are provided in note 34 to the contract.
Premiums are disclosed before the deduction of brokerage on an accruals basis.
these financial statements, together with an explanation of the differences and taxes or duties levied on them.
Estimates are included for premiums Loans and receivables between UK GAAP and IFRS that affect Amlin plc.
receivable after the period end but not yet notified, as well as adjustments Intangible assets Loans and receivables are initially measured at fair value.
Appropriate made in the year to premiums written in prior accounting periods.
Syndicate capacity allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in the In transitioning to IFRS the Group has adopted in full the requirements of The cost of syndicate participations which have been purchased in the income statement when there is evidence that the asset is impaired.
IFRS4, Insurance contracts and IAS32 and IAS39 on financial instruments Premiums are earned over the policy contract period.
Where the incidence Lloyds capacity auctions is capitalised at cost.
Syndicate capacity is as at 1 January 2004.
Accordingly the Group has not taken advantage of of risk is the same throughout the contract, the earned element is calculated considered to have an indefinite life and is not subject to an annual Borrowings the exemptions available in IFRS1 which permits these standards to be only separately for each contract on a 365ths basis.
Where the incidence of risk amortisation charge.
The continuing value of the capacity is reviewed for Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs applied to accounting periods beginning after 1 January 2005. varies during the contract, the earned element is calculated based on the impairment annually by reference to the expected future profit streams to be incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the estimated risk profile of the individual contracts involved.
earned from Syndicate 2001, with any impairment in value being charged to effective interest method.
Any difference between the amortised cost and At the date of authorisation of these financial statements IFRS7, Financial the income statement.
the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period instruments: disclosures and an amendment to IAS19, Employee benefits The proportion of written premiums, gross of commission payable, of the borrowings.
issued in December 2004 were in issue but not effective and have not been attributable to periods after the balance sheet date is deferred as a provision ii.
Goodwill applied in these financial statements.
The directors anticipate that the for unearned premiums.
The change in this provision is taken to the income Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 January 1999 was written off to Borrowing costs adoption of IFRS7 in future periods will have no material impact on the statement in order that revenue is recognised over the period of the risk.
Goodwill recognised between 1 January 1999 and the date of Borrowing costs comprise interest payable on loans and bank overdrafts financial statements except for additional disclosures on financial instruments.
transition to IFRS 1 January 2004 was capitalised and amortised on a and commissions charged for the utilisation of letters of credit.
These costs The amendment to IAS19 could reduce profit after tax and net assets by Acquisition costs comprise brokerage incurred on insurance contracts straight line basis over its estimated useful life.
Following the transition to are charged to the income statement as financing costs, as incurred.
However, this cannot be quantified with certainty until all changes written during the financial year.
They are incurred on the same basis as the IFRS this goodwill is stated at net book value at 1 January 2004.
Goodwill In addition fees paid for the arrangement of debt and letter of credit facilities in respect of the pension schemes, as discussed in note 26, are agreed.
earned proportions of the premiums they relate to.
Deferred acquisition that was recognised subsequent to 1 January 2004, representing the are charged as borrowing costs over the life of the facility.
costs are amortised over the period in which the related revenues are earned.
excess of the purchase consideration over fair value of net assets acquired, In accordance with the standard for insurance contracts IFRS4, the Group is capitalised.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or when events Cash and cash equivalents has applied existing accounting practises for insurance contracts, modified, Reinsurance premiums ceded or changes in circumstance indicate that it might be impaired by comparing Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
as appropriate, to comply with the IFRS framework and applicable standards.
Reinsurance premiums ceded comprise the cost of reinsurance the net present value of the future earnings stream from the acquired For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents arrangements placed and are accounted for in the same accounting period subsidiary, for the next five years, against the carrying value of goodwill.
comprise cash on hand, deposits held on call with banks and other Use of estimates as the related insurance contracts.
The provision for reinsurers share of short-term, highly liquid investments which are subject to insignificant The preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and unearned premiums represents that part of reinsurance premiums written risk of change in fair value.
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and which is estimated to be earned in following financial years.
76 Amlin plc Annual Report 2005 Amlin plc Annual Report 2005 77
