Aviva plc 2005 Financial statements 172 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 46 Contingent liabilities and other risk factors a Uncertainty over claims provisions Note 35 gives details of the estimation techniques used in determining the general business outstanding claims provisions and of the methodology and assumptions used in determining the long-term business provisions, which are designed to allow for prudence and the appropriate cost of future policy-related liabilities.
Both are estimated to give a result within the normal range of outcomes.
To the extent that the ultimate cost falls outside this range, for example where experience is worse than that assumed for long-term business, or future general business claims ination differs from that expected, there is uncertainty in respect of this liability.
b Asbestos, pollution and social environmental hazards In the course of conducting insurance business, various companies within the Group receive general insurance liability claims, and become involved in actual or threatened litigation arising therefrom, including claims in respect of pollution and other environmental hazards.
Amongst these are claims in respect of asbestos production and handling in various jurisdictions, including the United Kingdom, Australia and Canada.
Given the significant delays that are experienced in the notication of these claims, the potential number of incidents which they cover and the uncertainties associated with establishing liability and the availability of reinsurance, the ultimate cost cannot be determined with certainty.
However, the Groups net exposure to such liabilities is not significant and, on the basis of current information and having regard to the level of provisions made for general insurance claims, the directors consider that any costs arising are not likely to have a material impact on the financial position of the Group.
c Guarantees on long-term savings products Note 38 gives details of guarantees and options given by various Group companies as a normal part of their operating activities, in respect of certain long-term insurance and fund management products.
In the United Kingdom, in common with other pension and life policy providers, the Group wrote individual and group pension policies in the 1970s and 1980s with a guaranteed annuity rate option GAO.
Since 1993, such policies have become more valuable to policyholders, and more costly for insurers, as current annuity rates have fallen in line with interest rates and improving longevity.
Reserving policies for the cost of GAOs varied until a ruling by the House of Lords in the Equitable Life case in 2000 which effectively required full reserving by all companies.
Prior to the ruling, consistent with the Groups ordinary reserving practice in respect of such obligations, full reserves for GAOs had already been established.
No adjustment was made, or was necessary, to the Groups reserving practice as a result of the ruling.
The directors continue to believe that the existing provisions are sufficient.
d Pensions mis-selling The pensions review of past sales of personal pension policies which involved transfers, opt outs and non-joiners from occupational schemes, as required by the Financial Services Authority FSA, has largely been completed.
A provision of some 42 million 2004: 52 million remains to meet the outstanding costs of the very few remaining cases, the anticipated cost of any guarantees provided, and potential levies payable to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
It continues to be the directors view that there will be no material effect either on the Groups ability to meet the expectations of policyholders or on shareholders.
e Endowment reviews In December 1999, the FSA announced the findings of its review of mortgage endowments and expressed concern as to whether, given decreases in expected future investment returns, such policies could be expected to cover full repayment of mortgages.
A key conclusion was that, on average, holders of mortgage endowments had enjoyed returns such that they had fared at least as well as they would have done without an endowment.
Nevertheless, following the FSA review, all of the Groups UK mortgage endowment policyholders received policy-specic letters advising them whether their investment was on track to cover their mortgage.
In May 2002, in accordance with FSA requirements, the Group commenced sending out the second phase of endowment policy update letters, which provide policyholders with information about the performance of their policies and advice as to whether these show a projected shortfall at maturity.
The Group will continue to send these updates annually to all mortgage endowment holders, in accordance with FSA requirements.
The Group has made provisions totalling 195 million 2004: 130 million to meet potential mis-selling costs and the associated expenses of investigating complaints.
It continues to be the directors view that there will be no material effect either on the Groups liability to meet the expectations of policyholders or on shareholders.
In August 2004, the Group confirmed its intention to introduce time barring on mortgage endowment complaints, under FSA rules, by the end of 2006.
The Group is writing to its 1.1 million endowment policyholders as part of its ongoing review, stating that it intends to introduce a time bar on mortgage endowment complaints in the future.
Customers will be given at least 12 months individual notice before a time bar becomes applicable double the six months notice required by the FSA.
