Aviva plc 2005 Financial statements 176 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 49 Capital statement FRS27 requires us to produce a capital statement which sets out the financial strength of our Group entities and provides an analysis of the disposition and constraints over the availability of capital to meet risks and regulatory requirements.
The capital statement also provides a reconciliation of shareholders funds to regulatory capital.
The analysis below sets out the Groups available capital resources.
Other sources of capital include Subordinated debt of 2,808 million issued by Aviva and 119 million subordinated perpetual loan notes issued by a Dutch subsidiary undertaking.
Including an adjustment for minorities 3.
Includes the PM with-profit fund.
Other operations includes general insurance and fund management business.
Aviva plc 2005 Financial statements 177 49 Capital statement continued Analysis of movements in capital For the year ended 31 December 2005 Total UK life CGNU withCULAC withNUL&P withwith-profit Other UK life Total UK life Overseas life Total life profit fund profit fund profit fund funds operations Operations operations operations m m m m m m m m Opening available capital resources 1,695 1,633 1,208 4,536 1,433 5,969 4,523 10,492 Movement in liabilities 4,671 400 800 4,271 4,184 8,455 7,238 15,693 1 Other movements in capital 5,079 708 759 5,028 3,989 9,017 7,790 16,807 Closing available capital resources 2,103 1,941 1,249 5,293 1,238 6,531 5,075 11,606 1.
Includes movement in: outstanding claims provision: other technical provision: and obligations to staff pension schemes transferred to provisions.
A further analysis of the movement in the liabilities of the long-term business can be found in notes 35 and 37.
The main drivers of the variance between actual and expected liability movements are reductions in valuation interest rates for traditional contracts and strong investment return for unit-linked business.
Other movements in capital reect cashows for premiums received, benets paid and the investment return on assets held.
This movement also includes the change in the regulatory adjustments and regulatory rules.
The only regulatory rule changes having significant impact in the year are a change in the basis for inclusion of non-insurance subsidiaries from market value to a surplus assets basis, and new rules relating to the recognition of pension deficits, requiring a charge to be made based on anticipated additional payments over the next five years instead of the inclusion of the full scheme deficit.
In aggregate, the Group has at its disposal total available capital of 13.6 billion 2004: 12.8 billion, representing the aggregation of the solvency capital of all of our businesses.
This capital is available to meet risks and regulatory requirements set by reference to local guidance and EU directives.
After effecting the year-end transfer to shareholders, the UK with-profit funds available capital of 5.2 billion 2004: 4.5 billion can only be used to provide support for UK with-profits business and is not available to cover other shareholder risks.
This is comfortably in excess of the required capital margin and, therefore, the shareholders are not required to provide further capital support to this business.
For the remaining life and general insurance operations, the total available capital amounting to 8.3 billion 2004: 8.3 billion is signicantly higher than the minimum requirements established by regulators and, in principle, the excess is available to shareholders.
In practice, management will hold higher levels of capital within each business operation to provide appropriate cover for risk.
As the total available capital of 13.6 billion is arrived at on the basis of local regulatory guidance, which evaluates assets and liabilities prudently, it understates the economic capital of the business which is considerably higher.
This is a limitation of the Group Capital Statement which, to be more meaningful, needs to evaluate available capital on an economic basis and compare it with the risk capital required for each individual operation, after allowing for the considerable diversication benets that exist in our Group.
Within the Aviva group there exist intra-group arrangements to provide capital to particular business units.
Included within these arrangements is a subordinated loan of 200 million from Aviva plc to the NUL&P non-profit fund to provide capital to support the writing of new business.
The available capital of the Groups with-profit funds is determined in accordance with the Realistic balance sheet regime prescribed by the FSAs regulations, under which liabilities to policyholders include both declared bonuses and the constructive obligation for future bonuses not yet declared.
The available capital resources include an estimate of the value of their respective estates, included as part of the unallocated divisible surplus.
The estate represents the surplus in the fund that is in excess of any constructive obligation to policyholders.
It represents capital resources of the individual with-profit fund to which it relates and is available to meet regulatory and other solvency requirements of the fund and, in certain circumstances, additional liabilities may arise.
The liabilities included in the balance sheet for the with-profit funds do not include the amount representing the shareholders portion of future bonuses.
However, the shareholders portion is treated as a deduction from capital that is available to meet regulatory requirements and is therefore shown as a separate adjustment in the capital statement.
In accordance with the FSAs regulatory rules under its realistic capital regime, the Group is required to hold sufficient capital in its UK life with-profit funds to meet the FSA capital requirements, based on the risk capital margin RCM.
The determination of the RCM depends on various actuarial and other assumptions about potential changes in market prices, and the actions management would take in the event of particular adverse changes in market conditions.
