Aviva plc 2005 Financial statements 178 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 49 Capital statement continued 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 Realistic Required Realistic Realistic orphan capital assets liabilities estate margin Excess Excess bn bn bn bn bn bn CGNU Life 14.0 11.9 2.1 0.5 1.6 1.4 CULAC 14.0 12.1 1.9 0.6 1.3 1.2 NUL&P 25.9 24.7 1.2 0.8 0.4 0.2 PM 2.5 2.5 Aggregate 56.4 51.2 5.2 1.9 3.3 2.8 1.
These realistic liabilities include the shareholders share of future bonuses of 0.7 billion 31 December 2004: 0.5 billion.
Realistic liabilities adjusted to eliminate the shareholders share of future bonuses are 50.5 billion 31 December 2004: 47 billion.
These realistic liabilities make provision for guarantees, options and promises on a market consistent stochastic basis.
The value of the provision included within the realistic liabilities is 0.7 billion, 0.9 billion and 3.4 billion for CGNU life, CULAC and NUL&P respectively.
31 December 2004: 0.6 billion, 0.9 billion and 3.3 billion for CGNU life, CULAC and NUL&P respectively.
The required capital margin RCM is 2.7 times covered by the orphan estate 31 December 2004: 2.6 times.
For UK non-participating business, the relevant capital requirement is the minimum solvency requirement determined in accordance with FSA regulations.
For overseas life businesses, the amount shown is the minimum requirement under the locally applicable regulatory regimes.
For UK and overseas general insurance businesses, the relevant capital requirement is the minimum solvency requirement determined in accordance with the local regulators requirements.
For fund management and other businesses, the relevant capital requirement is the minimum solvency requirement determined in accordance with the local regulators requirements for the specic class of business.
The available capital resources in each regulated entity are generally subject to restrictions as to their availability to meet requirements that may arise elsewhere in the Group.
The principal restrictions are: iii UK with-profit funds CGNU Life, CULAC and NUL&P any available surplus held in each fund can only be used to meet the requirements of the fund itself or be distributed to policyholders and shareholders.
With-profit policyholders are entitled to at least 90% of the distributed profits while the shareholders receive the balance.
The latter distribution would be subject to a tax charge, which is met by the fund in the case of CGNU Life, CULAC and NUL&P.
iv UK non-participating funds any available surplus held in these is attributable to shareholders.
Capital within the non-profit funds may be made available to meet requirements elsewhere in the Group subject to meeting the regulatory requirements of the fund.
Any transfer of the surplus may give rise to a tax charge subject to availability of tax relief elsewhere in the Group.
v Overseas life operations the capital requirements and corresponding regulatory capital held by overseas businesses are calculated using the locally applicable regulatory regime.
The available capital resources in all these businesses are subject to local regulatory restrictions which may constrain managements ability to utilise these in other parts of the Group.
Any transfer of available capital may give rise to a tax charge subject to availability of tax relief elsewhere in the Group.
vi General insurance operations the capital requirements and corresponding regulatory capital held by overseas businesses are calculated using the locally applicable regulatory regime.
Any transfer of available capital may give rise to a tax charge, subject to availability of tax relief elsewhere in the Group.
50 Risk management policies a Governance framework The Group has established a risk and financial management framework whose primary objective is to protect the Group from events that hinder the sustainable achievement of the Groups performance objectives, including failing to exploit opportunities.
The Group recognises the critical importance of having efficient and effective risk management systems in place.
To this end, the Group has an established governance framework, details of which are given in the corporate governance section of this report on pages 57 to 61.
This framework has three key elements: Dened terms of reference for the Board, its committees, and the associated executive management committees: A clear organisational structure with documented delegated authorities and responsibilities from the Board to executive management committees and senior management: and A Group policy framework that sets out risk appetite, risk management, control and business conduct standards for the Groups world wide operations.
Each policy has a member of senior management who is charged with overseeing compliance with the policy throughout the Group.
Aviva plc 2005 Financial statements 179 50 Risk management policies continued This governance structure and policy set is regularly reviewed and updated to reect internal and external changes.
For example, since the regulatory changes brought about by the FSAs Prudential Sourcebook, which came into effect on 1 January 2004, the Group has placed a greater emphasis on assessment and documentation of risks, controls and an articulation of risk appetite.
b The Groups approach to financial risk and capital management Integration of risk and capital management The Group has developed a capital management framework using Individual Capital Assessment ICA principles for identifying the risks that business units, and the Group as a whole are exposed to, quantifying their impact on economic capital.
The ICA estimates how much capital is needed to mitigate the risk of insolvency to a selected remote level of risk applied to a number of tests both financial and non-financial on the capital position of the business.
The ICA works to a 99.5% confidence level of solvency over one year, in line with UK FSA regulatory requirements.
An ICA has been developed for all material parts of the Group, and the results of financial and operating experience tests are linked to the Groups risk reporting model.
In addition the Group is developing a risk-based capital model for its businesses that will provide a more detailed assessment of the capital needs of the business.
The Group also uses Financial Condition Reports FCRs to inform decisions on capital management issues.
The FCR is a medium-term forecast of the overall financial position of the business under a variety of economic and operating scenarios, allowing for new business.
The FCR considers a number of financial performance measures in addition to solvency and capital requirements.
FCRs are produced by business units and enable the Group to assess: The range of risks to which the business is exposed: Their evolution over time: and The impact of mitigating actions which might be taken.
Impact of regulatory context on nature of the risks A large proportion of the Groups long-term savings business involves insurance products where the majority of investment risks are borne by its policyholders.
Risks attributable to policyholders are actively and prudently managed in order to satisfy policyholders risk and reward objectives.
In addition, the Groups worldwide insurance operations are subject to numerous local regulatory requirements, that prescribe the type, quality, and concentration of investments, and the level of assets to be maintained in local currency in order to meet local insurance liabilities.
These requirements help to maintain the Groups market risk levels at an acceptable level in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
c Management of financial and non-financial risks The Group has established policies on the management of financial and non-financial risks.
The adoption of these policies throughout the Group enables a broadly consistent approach to the management of risk at business unit level.
In addition, the Group operates a number of oversight committees that monitor aggregate risk data and take overall risk management decisions.
Further details as to the operation of these policies and committees are provided by risk area below.
The Group also monitors a set of specic risks on a regular basis through the Group risk monitoring framework.
Businesses units are required to disclose to the Group risk function all material risks, along with information on likelihood and severity of risks, and the mitigating actions taken or planned.
This enables the Group to assess its overall risk exposure and to develop a group-wide risk map, identifying any concentrations of risk that may exist, and to define which risks and what level of risk the Group is prepared to accept.
The risk map is refreshed quarterly, and business units are required to escalate material changes intra-quarter.
i Insurance Risk Life Insurance Business The risk management framework for life insurance business is set out as follows.
Types of life insurance risk Life insurance risk in the Group arises through its exposure to mortality and morbidity insurance and exposure to worse than anticipated operating experience on factors such as persistency levels and management and administration expenses.
The management of life insurance risk is undertaken primarily in business units but is also monitored at Group level.
The impact of life insurance risks is monitored by the business units as part of the control cycle of business management.
Exposure is monitored through the assessment of liabilities, the asset liability management framework, profit reporting, financial condition reporting, and the ICA process.
significant insurance risks will be reported through the Group Risk Monitoring framework and overseen by the Life Insurance Risk Committee.
At Group level the overall exposure to life insurance risk is measured through the ICA, FCRs, and other management reporting.
Risk management The Group has developed a life insurance risk policy and guidelines on the practical application of this policy.
Individual life insurance risks are managed at a business unit level.
The Life Insurance Risk committee monitors the risk framework developed and implemented in each business, and receives management information on life insurance risks.
Aviva plc 2005 Financial statements 180 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 50 Risk management policies continued The committee considers all areas of life insurance risk, but in particular has a remit to monitor mortality, longevity, persistency, pricing, and expenses.
The committee also considers the reinsurance coverage across the life businesses.
It confirms that guidance and procedures are in place for each of the major components of life insurance risk, and that businesses adopt a risk management framework to mitigate against any life insurance risk outside local appetite, within the parameters for the overall Group risk appetite.
The framework adopted in business units is reviewed in detail and approved twice yearly.
The key points of this framework are as follows: Mortality and morbidity businesses must implement an underwriting procedure, and regularly monitor experience against external benchmarks: All risks must be managed at product or portfolio level to avoid cross subsidies between product lines and between different funds: and A product management cycle must be established to review all aspects of emerging experience, particularly mortality and persistency, at regular intervals.
Mortality and morbidity risks are mitigated by use of reinsurance.
The Group allows business units to select reinsurers based on local factors, but assesses the overall programme to manage group-wide risk exposures and monitor the aggregation of risk ceded to individual reinsurers is within appetite for credit risk.
Longevity risk is carefully monitored against the latest external industry data and emerging trends.
Whilst individual businesses are responsible for reserving and pricing for annuity business, the Group monitors the exposure to this risk and the capital implications to manage the impact on the group-wide exposure and the capital funding that businesses may require as a consequence.
The Group has used reinsurance solutions to reduce the risks from longevity where possible and continually monitors emerging market solutions to mitigate this risk further.
Expense risk is primarily managed by the business units through the assessment of business unit profitability and frequent monitoring of expense levels.
Apart from ICA and FCR, sensitivity testing is widely used to measure the capital required and volatility in earnings due to exposure to life insurance risks.
This assessment is taken at both business unit level and at Group level where the impact of aggregation of similar risks can be measured.
This enables the Group to determine whether action is required to reduce risk, or whether that risk is within the overall risk appetite.
Concentrations of life insurance risk The Group writes a diverse mix of business in worldwide markets that are all subject to similar risks mortality, persistency etc.
The Group assesses the relative costs and concentrations of each type of risk through the ICA capital requirements and material issues are escalated to and addressed at the Life Insurance Risk committee.
This analysis enables the Group to assess whether accumulations of risk exceeds risk appetite.
One key concentration of life insurance risk for the Group is improving longevity risk from pensions in payment and deferred annuities in the UK and the Netherlands where the Group has material portfolios.
The Group continually monitors this risk and the opportunities for mitigating actions through reinsurance, improved asset liability matching, or innovative solutions that emerge in the market.
Embedded derivatives within insurance contracts The Group has exposure to a variety of embedded derivatives in its long-term savings business due to product features offering varying degrees of guaranteed benets at maturity or on early surrender, along with options to convert their benets into different products on pre-agreed terms.
The extent of the impact of these embedded derivatives differs considerably between business units.
Examples of each type of embedded derivative affecting the Group are: Options: call, put, surrender and maturity options, guaranteed annuity options, option to cease premium payment, options for withdrawals free of market value adjustment, annuity option, guaranteed insurability options.
Guarantees: embedded oor guaranteed return, maturity guarantee, guaranteed death benefit, guaranteed minimum rate of annuity payment.
Other: indexed interest or principal payments, maturity value, loyalty bonus.
Aviva plc 2005 Financial statements 181 50 Risk management policies continued General Insurance Business The risk management framework for general insurance risks is set out as follows: 1.
Types of General Insurance Risk General insurance risk in the Group arises from: Fluctuations in the timing, frequency and severity of claims and claim settlements relative to expectations: Unexpected claims arising from a single source, inaccurate pricing of risks when underwritten: Inadequate reinsurance protection or other risk transfer techniques: and Inadequate reserves.
The majority of the general insurance business underwritten by the Group is of a short tail nature such as motor, household and commercial property insurances.
The Groups underwriting strategy and appetite is agreed by the Executive Committee and communicated via specic policy statements and guidelines.
The vast majority of the Groups general insurance business is managed and priced in the same country as the domicile of the customer.
Risk management significant insurance risks will be reported through the Group Risk monitoring framework.
Additionally, the ICA framework is used to assess the risks that each general insurance business unit, and the Group as a whole, is exposed to, quantifying their impact and calculating appropriate capital requirements.
Increasingly risk-based capital models are being used to support the quantication of risk under the ICA framework.
All general insurance business units undertake a quarterly review of their insurance risks, the output from which is a key input into the ICA and risk-based capital assessments.
A General Insurance Risk Committee has been established to monitor and develop the management of risk in the general insurance business units, and to assess the aggregate risk exposure.
There are Group policies for underwriting, claims handling, reinsurance and reserving that operate within the Group risk management framework whose implementation is regularly reviewed by this committee.
Business units have developed mechanisms that identify, quantify and manage accumulated exposures to contain them within the limits of the appetite of the Group.
The Group has pioneered various developments, such as the Norwich Union UK Digital Flood Map to effectively manage exposures arising from specic perils.
Where appropriate such projects are employed throughout the business units to promote the adoption of best practice as a standard.
Reinsurance Strategy Reinsurance purchases are reviewed annually at both business unit and Group level, to verify that the levels of protection being bought reect any developments in exposure and the risk appetite of the Group.
The basis of these purchases is underpinned by extensive financial modelling and actuarial analysis to optimise the cost and risk management benets.
For the larger business units, this involves utilising externally sourced probabilistic models to verify the accumulations and loss probabilities based on the Groups specic portfolios of business.
Where external models are not available, scenarios are developed and tested using the Groups data to determine potential losses and appropriate levels of reinsurance protection.
The reinsurance is placed with providers who meet the Groups counterparty security requirements.
Concentrations of general insurance risk Processes are in place to manage catastrophe risk in individual business units and at a Group level.
The Groups businesses purchase catastrophe reinsurance to protect against significant natural hazard events.
Due to the geographic concentration of some large business units in northern Europe, the Group purchases additional catastrophe reinsurance cover to limit Group retentions in the event of a northern European windstorm event.
For a single realistic catastrophic event for the Group, this is a northern European windstorm this maximum amount is approximately 350 million which equates to 3.2% of shareholders equity on a net basis.
Actuarial Management The adequacy of the Groups general insurance claims provisions is ultimately overseen by the Reserving Committee, which covers both life and general insurance reserving.
Actuarial claims reserving is conducted by local actuaries in the various general insurance business units according to the General Insurance Reserving policy.
The General Insurance Risk Committee monitors and maintains the General Insurance Reserving policy, and conducts quarterly reviews of the Groups general insurance claims provisions, and their adequacy.
The reviews are conducted under the direction of the Aviva General Insurance Actuarial Director and include peer reviews of the business units own conclusions as well as independent analysis to confirm the reasonableness of the local reviews.
A number of business units also have periodic external reviews by local consultant actuaries often as part of the local regulatory requirement.
Aviva plc 2005 Financial statements 182 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 50 Risk management policies continued ii Asset liability management ALM The Group has established a policy on asset liability management that sets out the minimum principles that businesses are expected to adopt to manage the key ALM risks to which the Group is exposed.
The Group monitors adherence to this policy and regularly reviews how business units are managing the ALM risks locally, through the Group Investment Committee and ultimately to the Asset Liability Management committee.
The Group policy sets out the framework for matching liabilities with appropriate assets, the approaches to be taken when liabilities cannot be matched and the monitoring processes that are required.
The Group has criteria for matching assets and liabilities for all classes of business in order to manage the financial risk from the mismatching of assets and liabilities as investment markets change.
In addition, the local regulatory environment for each business sets out how asset and liabilities are to be matched.
The ALM framework covers a number of areas which are discussed in more detail below.
Liquidity risk The Group has a strong liquidity position and through the application of a Group Liquidity Management policy seeks to maintain sufficient financial resources to meet its obligations as they fall due.
In addition to its strong liquidity position, the Group maintains significant committed borrowing facilities from a range of highly rated banks to further mitigate this risk.
Maturity periods and interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises primarily from the products sold by the Group and the value of investments.
For example, long-term debt and xed income securities are exposed to uctuations in interest rates.
Exposure to interest rate risk is monitored through several measures that include Value-at-Risk analysis, position limits, scenario testing, stress testing and asset and liability matching using measures such as duration.
Interest rate risk is managed using a variety of derivative instruments, including futures, options and swaps, caps & oors, in order to provide a degree of hedging against unfavourable market movements in interest rates inherent in the assets backing technical liabilities.
On certain categories of long-term business, interest rate risk is reduced through close matching of assets and liabilities.
On short-term business such as general insurance business the Group requires a close matching of assets and liabilities by duration to minimise this risk.
Further information on borrowings is included in note 43.
The following table provides an analysis of assets into their relevant maturity groups based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to their contractual maturities.
31.12.2005 Within Over m Total 1 year 1-5 years 5-15 years 15 years Debt securities 103,917 6,827 25,672 40,503 30,915 Loans 24,544 1,513 5,239 8,727 9,065 31.12.2004 Within Over m Total 1 year 1-5 years 5-15 years 15 years Debt securities 98,719 6,484 24,388 38,478 29,369 Loans 22,055 1,359 4,708 7,842 8,146 Analysis of expected maturity of liabilities For each main category of insurance and investment business, the following table shows the gross liability at 31 December 2005 analysed by duration.
The total liability is split by duration in proportion to the present value of cash-ows estimated to arise during that period.
31.12.2005 Within Over m Total 1 year 1-5 years 5-15 years 15 years Long-term business Insurance contracts non-linked 88,586 8,113 26,066 36,651 17,756 Investment contracts non-linked 42,736 3,111 11,767 16,688 11,170 Linked business 60,163 3,036 13,729 25,711 17,687 General insurance and health 18,426 8,636 7,416 2,189 185 31.12.2004 Within Over m Total 1 year 1-5 years 5-15 years 15 years Long-term business Insurance contracts non-linked 84,640 6,944 25,431 36,707 15,558 Investment contracts non-linked 41,323 2,981 10,710 16,566 11,066 Linked business 49,921 2,105 9,796 21,089 16,931 General insurance and health 17,793 8,174 7,513 1,967 139 Aviva plc 2005 Financial statements 183 50 Risk management policies continued iii Market risk Market risk is the risk of adverse financial impact due to changes in fair values of financial instruments from uctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, property prices and equity prices.
Market risk arises in business units due to uctuations in the value of liabilities and the value of investments held.
At Group level, it also arises in relation to the overall portfolio of international businesses and in the value of investment assets owned directly by the shareholders.
The management of market risk is undertaken in both business units and at Group level.
Business units manage market risks locally using their ALM framework and within local regulatory constraints.
Business units may also be constrained by the requirement to meet policyholders reasonable expectations and to minimise or avoid market risk in a number of areas.
At Group level, market risk is the responsibility of the Investment Committee which has a remit to manage a number of investment related risks, in particular those faced by the shareholder funds throughout the Group.
For each of the major components of market risk, described in more detail below, the Group has put in place policies and procedures to set out how each risk should be managed and monitored, and the approach to setting an appropriate risk appetite.
At Group level, the financial impact from changes in market risk such as interest rates, equity prices and property values is examined through stress tests adopted in the ICA and FCR.
Currency risk The Group operates internationally and as a result is exposed to foreign currency exchange risk arising from uctuations in exchange rates of various currencies.
Approximately half of the Groups premium income arises in currencies other than sterling and the Groups net assets are denominated in a variety of currencies, of which the largest are euro and sterling.
The Group does not hedge foreign currency revenues as these are substantially retained locally to support the growth of the Groups business and meet local regulatory and market requirements.
The Groups foreign exchange policy requires that each of the Groups subsidiaries maintain sufficient assets in their local currencies to meet local currency liabilities.
Therefore, capital held by the Groups business units should be able to support local business activities regardless of foreign currency movements.
However, such movements may impact the value of the Groups consolidated shareholders equity which is expressed in sterling.
This aspect of foreign exchange risk is monitored and managed centrally, against predetermined limits.
The Groups foreign exchange policy is to manage these exposures by aligning the deployment of capital by currency, with the Groups capital requirements by currency.
Limits are set to control the extent to which the deployment of capital is not aligned fully with the Groups capital requirement for each major currency.
Currency borrowings and derivatives are used to manage exposures within the limits that have been set.
At 31 December 2005 the Groups total equity deployment by currency was: Sterling Euro Other Total m m m m Capital 31.12.2005 1,772 7,458 1,862 11,092 Capital 31.12.2004 1,437 6,045 1,511 8,993 Net assets are stated after taking account of the effect of currency swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises primarily from the Groups investments, long-term debt and xed income securities.
Interest rate risk also exists in policies that carry investment guarantees on early surrender or at maturity, where claim values can become higher than the value of backing assets when interest rates rise or fall.
The Group manages this risk by adopting close asset liability matching criteria, to minimise the impact of mismatches between the value of assets and liabilities from interest rate movements.
Interest rate risk is also controlled through the use of a variety of derivative instruments, including futures, options and swaps, in order to hedge against unfavourable market movements in interest rates inherent in the underlying assets and liabilities.
The impact of exposure to sustained low interest rates is regularly monitored.
At 31 December 2005, the Group had entered into a number of interest rate swap agreements to mitigate the effects of potential adverse interest rate movements, and to enable close matching of assets and liabilities.
Property price risk The Group is subject to property price risk due to holdings of investment properties in a variety of locations worldwide.
The investment in property is managed at business unit level, and will be subject to local regulations on asset admissibility, liquidity requirements and the expectations of policyholders.
At 31 December 2005, no material derivative contracts had been entered into to mitigate the effects of changes in property prices.
Aviva plc 2005 Financial statements 184 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 50 Risk management policies continued Equity price risk The Group is subject to equity price risk due to daily changes in the market values of its equity securities portfolio.
The Groups shareholders are exposed to both direct equity shareholdings in its shareholder assets, from the indirect impact from changes in the value of equities held in policyholders funds from which management charges or a share of performance are taken and from its interest in the free estate of long-term funds.
At business unit level, equity price risk is actively managed through the use of derivative instruments, including futures and options, in order to mitigate anticipated unfavourable market movements where this lies outside the risk appetite of the fund concerned.
The Group does not have material holdings of unquoted equity securities.
In addition local asset admissibility regulations require that business units hold diversied portfolios of assets thereby reducing exposure to individual equities.
The Investment Committee actively monitors its directly owned equity assets, which may include some material shareholdings in the Groups strategic business partners.
Businesses actively model the performance of equities through the use of stochastic models, in particular to understand the impact of equity performance on guarantees, options and bonus rates.
At 31 December 2005, certain business units had entered into various futures and option agreements to mitigate the effects of potential adverse equity price movements.
Derivatives risk Derivatives are used to a limited extent, within policy guidelines agreed by the Board of Directors.
Derivatives are only used for efficient investment management, risk hedging purposes or to structure specic retail-savings products.
Derivative transactions are fully covered by either cash or corresponding assets and liabilities.
Speculative activity is prohibited, unless approval has been obtained from the Derivatives committee and Group finance director.
Over the counter derivative contracts are entered into only with approved counterparties, in accordance with our Group policies, thereby reducing the risk of credit loss.
The Group applies strict requirements to the administration and valuation processes it uses, and has a control framework that is consistent with market and industry practice.
The Derivatives committee monitors this framework, exposure levels and approves large or complex transactions proposed by business units.
Correlations between market risk and other risks The Group considers that identied lapse behaviour and potential increases in consumer expectations are sensitive to and interdependent with market movements and interest rates.
These interdependencies are taken into consideration in the ICA in the aggregation of the financial stress tests with the operational risk assessment.
FCRs also consider scenarios involving a number of correlated events.
A number of policyholder participation features have an inuence on the Groups interest rate risk.
The following are the major features identied: Guaranteed surrender values: Guaranteed annuity options: and Minimum surrender and maturity values.
The full list of material guarantees and options is set out in Note 38. iv Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of loss in the value of financial assets due to counterparties failing to meet all or part of their obligations.
The Groups management of credit risk includes monitoring exposures at a Group level and requiring business units to implement local credit risk policies.
Large individual counterparty exposures exceeding 25 million are aggregated and monitored at Group level against centrally-set limits reecting the credit ratings by companies such as Standard & Poors.
In addition, the Group evaluates the concentration of exposures by industry sector and geographic region through the Credit committee.
Financial assets are graded according to current credit ratings issued.
AAA is the highest possible rating.
Investment grade financial assets are classied within the range of AAA to BBB ratings.
Financial assets which fall outside this range are classied as speculative grade.
Credit limits for each counterparty are set based on default probabilities that are in turn based on the rating of the counterparty concerned.
The following table provides information regarding the aggregated credit risk exposure of the Group at 31 December 2005.
Aviva plc 2005 Financial statements 185 50 Risk management policies continued The carrying amount of assets included on the balance sheet represents the maximum credit exposure.
Credit rating Speculative AAA AA A BBB grade Not-rated Total m m m m m m m Debt securities 56,431 19,001 15,928 7,357 511 4,689 103,917 Reinsurance assets 1,967 2,238 2,416 60 449 7,130 Other investments 351 639 1,459 758 10 23,210 26,427 Loans 39 351 24,154 24,544 58,749 21,878 19,803 8,214 872 52,502 162,018 Concentrations of credit risk The long-term businesses and general insurance businesses are generally not individually exposed to significant concentrations of credit risk due to the regulations, applicable in most markets, limiting investments in individual assets and asset classes.
In cases where the business is particularly exposed to credit risk e. g. in respect of defaults on mortgages or debt matching annuity liabilities this risk is translated into a more conservative discount rate used to value the liabilities, creating a greater capital requirement, and this credit risk is actively managed.
The impact of aggregation of credit risk is monitored as described above.
With the exception of AAA rated Governments the largest aggregated counterparty exposure does not exceed 1.6% of the Groups total financial assets.
Reinsurance credit exposures The Group is exposed to concentrations of risk with individual reinsurers, due to the nature of the reinsurance market and the restricted range of reinsurers that have acceptable credit ratings.
The Group operates a policy to manage its reinsurance counterparty exposures and the impact from reinsurer default is measured regularly, in particular through the ICA tests, and is managed accordingly.
Both the Credit committee and Reinsurance Security committee have a monitoring role over this risk.
The Groups largest reinsurance counterparty is National Indemnity Corporation, a member of the Berkshire Hathaway Group.
At 31 December the reinsurance asset recoverable from National Indemnity Corporation was 1.3bn.
This exposure is monitored on a regular basis with the forecast to completion monitored for any shortfall in the claims history to verify that the contract is progressing as expected and that no further exposure for the Group will arise.
In the event of a catastrophic event the counterparty exposure to a single reinsurer is estimated not to exceed 1.4% of shareholders equity.
v Operational risk Operational risk arises as a result of inadequately controlled internal processes or systems, human error, or from external events.
This denition is intended to include all risks to which the Group is exposed, other than the financial risks described previously, and strategic and Group risks that are considered elsewhere.
Hence, operational risks include for example, information technology, information security, human resources, project management, outsourcing, tax, legal, fraud and compliance risks.
In accordance with Group policies, business unit management has primary responsibility for the effective identication, management, monitoring and reporting of risks to the business unit executive management team and to Group.
Business unit risk management and governance functions are responsible for implementing the Group risk management methodologies and frameworks to assist line management in this work.
They also provide support and independent challenge on the completeness, accuracy and consistency of risk assessments, and the adequacy of mitigating action plans.
As a result, the business unit executive management team satisfies itself that material risks are being mitigated and reported to an acceptable level.
Operational risks are assessed according to the potential impact and probability of the event concerned.
These impact assessments are made against financial, operational and reputational criteria.
All operational risks are reported to Group on a quarterly basis.
Risks assessed by business units to be at the two highest impact assessments are escalated to Group intra-quarter.
This reporting enables the Group to: Assess and monitor overall operational risk exposures: Identify any concentrations of operational risk across the Group: Monitor progress in mitigating overall operational risk: and Verify that aggregate operational risk exposures remain within risk appetites.
Aviva plc 2005 Financial statements 186 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 50 Risk management policies continued vi Sensitivity analysis and capital management The Group uses a number of sensitivity test-based risk management tools to understand the volatility of earnings, the volatility of its capital requirements and to manage its capital more efficiently.
Primarily, FCRs are used, and increasingly ICA.
However, sensitivities to economic and operating experience are regularly produced on all of the Groups financial performance measurements as part of the Groups decision making and planning process, and to set the framework for identifying and quantifying the risks that each of its business units, and the Group as a whole are exposed to.
For example, under ICA, an estimate of how much capital is needed to mitigate the risk of insolvency from events occurring within a selected remote level of probability is measured.
This high level risk appetite parameter is then used to calibrate a series of core stress and scenario tests of both an economic and operating nature to be examined by each business unit.
Business units satisfy themselves that the range and level of these tests is appropriate to their local risk prole, and supplement the core tests where necessary.
Business units also perform an assessment of the operational risk: this assessment is subject to central review and challenge by Group to verify consistency across business units and to identify aggregate exposures.
The businesses are then able to assess the capital requirements within this risk appetite framework.
The Group uses both results at a business unit level and aggregated results to assess the benets of diversication of risk in the Group, and to assess capital requirements of the types of risk it is exposed to.
These results enable the Group to assess whether its risk appetite is appropriate and whether mitigating action is required.
Life insurance and Investment contracts The nature of long-term business is such that a number of assumptions are made in compiling these financial statements.
Assumptions are made about investment returns, expenses, mortality rates, and persistency in connection with the in-force policies for each business unit.
Assumptions are best estimates based on historic and expected experience of the business.
A number of the key assumptions for the Groups central scenario are disclosed elsewhere in these statements.
General insurance and health business General insurance and health claim liabilities are estimated by using standard actuarial claims projection techniques.
These methods extrapolate the claims development for each accident year based on the observed development of earlier years.
In most cases, no explicit assumptions are made as projections are based on assumptions implicit in the historic claims development on which the projections are based.
As such, in the analysis below, the sensitivity of general insurance claim liabilities is primarily based on the financial impact of changes to the reported loss ratio.
Some results of sensitivity testing for long-term business and general insurance and health business are set out below.
For each sensitivity test the impact of a change in a single factor is shown, with other assumptions left unchanged.
Sensitivity Factor Description of sensitivity factor applied Interest rate and investment return The impact of a change in market interest rates by 1% e. g. if a current interest rate is 5%, the impact of an immediate change to 4% and 6%.
The test allows consistently for similar changes to investment returns and movements in the market value of backing xed interest securities.
Expenses The impact of an increase in maintenance expenses by 10%.
Assurance mortality morbidity life insurance only The impact of an increase in mortality morbidity rates for assurance contracts by 5%.
Annuitant mortality life insurance only The impact of a reduction in mortality rates for annuity contracts by 5% Gross loss ratios non-life insurance only The impact of an increase in gross loss ratios for general insurance and health business by 5%.
The above sensitivity factors are applied using actuarial and statistical models, with the following pre-tax impacts on profit and shareholders equity at 31 December 2005: Long-term business impact on profit before tax m Interest rates Interest rates Expenses Assurance Annuitant 1% -1% 10% mortality 5% mortality -5% Insurance participating 5 35 5 Insurance non-participating 60 350 5 30 295 Investment participating 10 50 Investment non-participating Total 75 435 10 30 295 Aviva plc 2005 Financial statements 187 50 Risk management policies continued Long-term business impact before tax on shareholders equity m Interest rates Interest rates Expenses Assurance Annuitant 1% -1% 10% mortality 5% mortality -5% Insurance participating 10 20 5 Insurance non-participating 20 305 5 30 295 Investment participating 10 25 Investment non-participating 5 Total 5 350 10 30 295 The sensitivity to a reduction in market interest rates relates primarily to the effect of interest rate guarantees in the Netherlands, with smaller impacts in the UK and other countries.
The different impacts of interest rate changes on shareholders equity and profit arise from the classication of xed interest securities as available for sale in some business units, for which movements in unrealised gains would be taken directly to shareholders equity.
The mortality sensitivities relate primarily to the UK and Irish business units.
General insurance and health business impact on profit before tax m Gross loss Interest rates Interest rates Expenses ratios 1% -1% 10% 5% Gross of reinsurance 275 285 115 305 Net of reinsurance 275 285 115 305 General insurance and health business impact before tax on shareholders equity m Gross loss Interest rates Interest rates Expenses ratios 1% -1% 10% 5% Gross of reinsurance 275 285 30 305 Net of reinsurance 275 285 30 305 The sensitivity to a 5% increase in gross loss ratios is the same both net and gross of reinsurance because this increase does not result in any material excess of loss reinsurance limits being reached.
For general insurance, the impact of the expense sensitivity on profit also includes the increase in on-going administration expenses, in addition to the increase in the claims handling expense provision.
Limitations of sensitivity analysis The above tables demonstrate the effect of a change in a key assumption while other assumptions remain unchanged.
In reality, such an occurrence is remote, due to correlations between the assumptions and other factors.
It should also be noted that these sensitivities are non-linear, and larger or smaller impacts should not be interpolated or extrapolated from these results.
The sensitivity analyses do not take into consideration that the Groups assets and liabilities are actively managed.
Additionally, the financial position of the Group may vary at the time that any actual market movement occurs.
For example, the Groups financial risk management strategy aims to manage the exposure to market uctuations.
As investment markets move past various trigger levels, management actions could include selling investments, changing investment portfolio allocation, adjusting bonuses credited to policyholders, and taking other protective action.
A number of the business units use passive assumptions to calculate their long-term business liabilities.
Consequently, the actual impact of a change in the assumptions may not have any impact on the liabilities, whereas assets are held at market value on the balance sheet.
In these circumstances, the different measurement bases for liabilities and assets may lead to volatility in shareholder equity.
Similarly, for general insurance liabilities, the interest rate sensitivities only affect profit and equity where explicit assumptions are made regarding interest discount rates or future ination.
Other limitations in the above sensitivity analyses include the use of hypothetical market movements to demonstrate potential risk that only represent the Groups view of possible near-term market changes that cannot be predicted with any certainty: and the assumption that all interest rates move in an identical fashion.
