Aviva plc 2005 Financial statements 93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards a The Group has adopted International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for these financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005.
In order to show comparative balances, the year ended 31 December 2004 is also shown under IFRS.
The date of transition to IFRS is 1 January 2004.
In general, a company is required to determine its IFRS accounting policies and apply these retrospectively to determine its opening balance sheet under IFRS.
However, International Financial Reporting Standard 1, First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS 1 allows a number of exemptions to this general principle upon adoption of IFRS.
The Group has taken advantage of the following transitional arrangements.
Business combinations The Group has elected not to apply retrospectively the provisions of IFRS 3, Business Combinations, to business combinations that occurred prior to 1 January 2004.
At the date of transition, no adjustment was made between UK GAAP and IFRS for any historical business combination.
Cumulative translation differences The Group has elected that the cumulative translation differences of foreign operations were deemed to be zero at the transition date to IFRS.
Equity compensation plans The Group has elected not to apply the provisions of IFRS 2, Share-based Payment, to options and awards granted on or before 7 November 2002 which had not vested by 1 January 2005.
Employee benets All cumulative actuarial gains and losses on the Groups dened benefit pension schemes have been recognised in equity at the transition date.
Comparatives The Group has not taken advantage of the exemption within IFRS 1 that allows comparative information presented in the first year of adoption of IFRS not to comply with IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts.
Estimates Where estimates had previously been made under UK GAAP, consistent estimates after adjustments to reect any difference in accounting policies have been made for the same date on transition to IFRS ie judgements affecting the Groups opening balance sheet have not been revisited for the benefit of hindsight.
Held for sale The requirements of International Financial Reporting Standard 5, Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, have been applied prospectively from 1 January 2005.
Transitional provisions The Group has elected to disclose only five years of data in its loss development tables, as permitted by IFRS 4 in the year of adoption of IFRS.
This will be increased in each succeeding additional year, until the full ten years of information is included.
