Aviva plc 2005 Financial statements 78 Financial statements Accounting policies Aviva plc the Company, a public limited company incorporated Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups and domiciled in the United Kingdom UK, together with its entities are measured in the currency of the primary economic subsidiaries collectively, the Group or Aviva transacts life environment in which that entity operates the functional assurance and long-term savings business, fund management, currency.
The consolidated financial statements are stated in and most classes of general insurance and health business sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentation through its subsidiaries, associates and branches in the UK, Ireland, currency.
Unless otherwise noted, the amounts shown in these Continental Europe, United States US, Canada, Asia, Australia and financial statements are in millions of pounds sterling m. other countries throughout the world.
The Group also invests in As supplementary information, consolidated financial information securities, properties, mortgages and loans and carries on the is also presented in euros.
business of trading in property.
The separate financial statements of the Company are on pages The Group is managed using reportable segments based on the 190 to 198. above activities.
These are long-term business, fund management, FRS 27 general insurance and health, further details of which are given in Financial Reporting Standard 27, Life Assurance, FRS 27 was note 4. issued by the UKs Accounting Standards Board ASB on The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of 13 December 2004, following the Penrose inquiry.
Aviva, along these financial statements are set out below.
with other major insurance companies and the Association of British Insurers ABI, signed a Memorandum of Understanding A Basis of presentation MoU with the ASB relating to FRS 27.
Under this MoU, Aviva From 2005, all European Union listed companies are required to voluntarily agreed to adopt in full the standard from 2005 within prepare consolidated financial statements using International the Groups IFRS financial statements.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and endorsed by the European Within FRS 27, the ASB acknowledged the difficulty of applying the Union.
This is the Groups first set of full year results prepared in requirements retrospectively and it is the Groups view that it would accordance with IFRS accounting policies and its previously reported be impractical to do so in accordance with IAS 8.
Therefore, only 2004 consolidated financial statements have accordingly been the balance sheet at 31 December 2004 has been restated for the restated to comply with IFRS, with the date of transition to IFRS impact of FRS 27.
This has no impact on net assets or profit for the being 1 January 2004.
The principal effects of the adoption of IFRS year ended 31 December 2004, as the adjustments reect changes have been reected within note 1 on first time adoption.
in balance sheet presentation between the unallocated divisible surplus and insurance liabilities.
No adjustments have been made, The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in nor are any required, to the balance sheet at 1 January 2004 or the accordance with IFRS applicable at 31 December 2005.
The IASB income statement for the year ended 31 December 2004. issued amendments to IAS 19, Employee Benets, and IAS 39, The Fair Value Option, in December 2004 and June 2005 The comparatives presented for the year ended 31 December 2004 respectively, and its Interpretations Committee IFRIC issued IFRIC have therefore been prepared in accordance with the Groups IFRS Interpretation 4, Determining whether an Arrangement contains a accounting policies and the transitional arrangements above.
Their requirements are applicable for B Use of estimates accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006, but the The preparation of financial statements requires the Group to make Group has decided to adopt them early and reect their impact in estimates and assumptions that affect items reported in the these financial statements.
consolidated balance sheet and income statement and the In August 2005, the IASB issued IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Disclosures, and amendments to IAS 1, Capital Disclosures, and financial statements.
Although these estimates are based on IAS 39 IFRS 4, Financial Guarantee Contracts.
Their requirements managements best knowledge of current facts, circumstances and, are applicable for accounting periods beginning on or after to some extent, future events and actions, actual results ultimately 1 January 2007 for the first two and, for the third, 1 January 2006. may differ from those estimates, possibly signicantly.
In addition, IFRIC Interpretation 8, Scope of IFRS 2, was issued in C Consolidation principles January 2006 and is effective for accounting periods beginning on Subsidiaries or after 1 May 2006.
The Group has decided not to adopt any of Subsidiaries are those entities including Special Purpose Entities in the standards early in these financial statements but the impact of which the Group, directly or indirectly, has power to exercise control adopting them is not expected to have a material effect on its over financial and operating policies in order to gain economic results.
IFRS 7 will result in amendments to the disclosure of benets.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which financial assets and liabilities, whilst the amendments to IAS 1 bring effective control is transferred to the Group and are excluded from the capital disclosures into line with IFRS 7.
The amendments to IAS consolidation from the date of disposal.
All inter-company 39 and IFRS 4 will not affect the manner in which the Group transactions, balances and unrealised surpluses and deficits on accounts for financial guarantee business.
In addition, IFRS 6 and transactions between Group companies have been eliminated.
IFRIC Interpretations 5, 6 and 7 have been issued during 2005 but are not relevant to the activities of the Group.
From 1 January 2004, the date of first time adoption of IFRS, the Group is required to use the purchase method of accounting to In accordance with Phase I IFRS 4, Insurance contracts, the account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
Under this method, the Group has applied existing accounting practices for insurance and cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of assets given participating investment contracts, modied as appropriate to up, shares issued or liabilities undertaken at the date of acquisition, comply with the IFRS framework and applicable standards.
Further plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The excess of the details are given in policy E below.
cost of acquisition over the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired is recorded as goodwill see policy M below.
Aviva plc 2005 Financial statements 79 Any surplus of the acquirers interest in the subsidiarys net assets D Foreign currency translation over the cost of acquisition is credited to the income statement.
Income statements and cash ows of foreign entities are translated into the Groups presentation currency at average exchange rates Prior to 1 January 2004, certain significant business combinations for the year while their balance sheets are translated at the year-end were accounted for using the pooling of interests method exchange rates.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of or merger accounting, which treats the merged groups as if they the net investment in foreign subsidiaries, associates and joint had been combined throughout the current and comparative ventures, and of borrowings and other currency instruments accounting periods.
Merger accounting principles for these designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to the currency combinations have given rise to a merger reserve in the translation reserve within equity.
On disposal of a foreign entity, such consolidated balance sheet.
These transactions have not been exchange differences are transferred out of this reserve and are restated, as permitted by the IFRS 1 transitional arrangements.
recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
The merger reserve is also used where more than 90% of the Foreign currency transactions are accounted for at the exchange shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration includes rates prevailing at the date of the transactions.
Gains and losses the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby attracting merger resulting from the settlement of such transactions, and from the relief under the Companies Act 1985. translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign Investment vehicles currencies, are recognised in the income statement.
Investment vehicles such as OEICs, where a Group company owns Translation differences on debt securities and other monetary more than 50%, are consolidated.
The interests of parties other financial assets measured at fair value and designated as held at fair than Aviva in such vehicles are classied as liabilities and appear as value through profit or loss FV see policy R are included in foreign Net asset value attributable to unitholders in the consolidated exchange gains and losses in the income statement.
financial assets designated as available for sale AFS, translation Associates and joint ventures differences are calculated as if they were carried at amortised cost Associates are entities over which the Group has significant and so are recognised in the income statement, whilst foreign inuence, but which it does not control.
Generally, it is presumed exchange differences arising from fair value gains and losses are that the Group has significant inuence where it has between included in the investment valuation reserve within equity.
Joint ventures are entities Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities whereby the Group and other parties undertake an economic which are designated as FV, are reported as part of the fair value activity, which is subject to joint control arising from a contractual gain or loss, whereas such differences on AFS equities are included agreement.
In a number of these, the Groups share of the in the investment valuation reserve.
underlying assets and liabilities may be greater than 50% but the E Product classication terms of the relevant agreements make it clear that control is not Insurance contracts are dened as those containing significant exercised.
Such jointly-controlled entities are referred to as joint insurance risk if, and only if, an insured event could cause an insurer ventures in these financial statements.
to make significant additional payments in any scenario, excluding Gains on transactions between the Group and its associates and scenarios that lack commercial substance, at the inception of the joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in contract.
Such contracts remain insurance contracts until all rights the associates and joint ventures.
Losses are also eliminated, unless and obligations are extinguished or expire.
Contracts can be the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset reclassied as insurance contracts after inception if insurance risk transferred between entities.
Any contracts not considered to be insurance contracts under IFRS are classied as investment contracts.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under this method, the cost of Some insurance and investment contracts contain a discretionary the investment in a given associate or joint venture, together with participating feature, which is a contractual right to receive the Groups share of that entitys post-acquisition changes to additional benets as a supplement to guaranteed benets.
shareholders funds, is included as an asset in the consolidated These are referred to as participating contracts.
The Groups share of their post-acquisition profits As noted in policy A above, insurance contracts and participating or losses is recognised in the income statement and its share of investment contracts in general continue to be measured and post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
accounted for under existing accounting practices at the date of Equity accounting is discontinued when the Group no longer has transition to IFRS.
Accounting for insurance contracts is determined significant inuence over the investment.
in accordance with the Statement of Recommended Practice issued When the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture by the Association of British Insurers in December 2005.
However, equals or exceeds its interest in the undertaking, the Group does in certain businesses, the accounting policies have been changed, as not recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations or permitted by IFRS 4, to remeasure designated insurance liabilities to made payments on behalf of the entity.
reect current market interest rates.
The Companys investments F Premiums earned In the Company balance sheet, subsidiaries and joint ventures are Premiums on long-term insurance contracts and participating stated at their fair values, estimated using applicable valuation investment contracts are recognised as income when receivable, models underpinned by the Companys market capitalisation.
except for investment-linked premiums which are accounted for These investments are classied as available for sale financial assets, when the corresponding liabilities are recognised.
For single with changes in their fair value being recorded in a separate premium business, this is the date from which the policy is investment valuation reserve within equity.
For regular premium contracts, receivables are taken at the date when payments are due.
Premiums are shown before deduction of commission and before any sales-based taxes or Aviva plc 2005 Financial statements 80 Financial statements continued Accounting policies continued duties.
Where policies lapse due to non-receipt of premiums, then gains and losses represent the difference between the carrying all the related premium income accrued but not received from the value at the year end and the carrying value at the previous year date they are deemed to have lapsed is offset against premiums.
end or purchase value during the year, less the reversal of previously recognised unrealised gains and losses in respect of disposals made General insurance and health premiums written reect business during the year.
incepted during the year, and exclude any sales-based taxes or duties.
Unearned premiums are those proportions of the premiums The long-term nature of much of the Groups operations means written in a year that relate to periods of risk after the balance that, for managements decision-making and internal performance sheet date.
Unearned premiums are computed principally on management, short-term realised and unrealised investment gains either a daily or monthly pro rata basis.
Premiums collected by and losses are treated as non-operating items.
The Group focuses intermediaries, but not yet received, are assessed based on instead on an operating profit measure that incorporates a longer estimates from underwriting or past experience, and are included term return on investments supporting its general insurance and in premiums written.
Total investment income, including realised and unrealised gains, is therefore analysed between that calculated Deposits collected under investment contracts without a using a longer term return and short-term uctuations from this.
discretionary participating feature non-participating contracts are Further details of this analysis and the assumptions used are given not accounted for through the income statement, except for the in note 8. fee income covered in policy 4 and the investment income attributable to those contracts, but are accounted for directly J Insurance and participating investment contract liabilities through the balance sheet as an adjustment to the investment Claims contract liability.
Long-term business claims reect the cost of all claims arising during the year, including claims handling costs, as well as G Other investment contract fee revenue policyholder bonuses accrued in anticipation of bonus declarations.
Investment contract policyholders are charged fees for mortality, policy administration, investment management, surrenders or other General insurance and health claims incurred include all losses contract services.
These fees are recognised as revenue in the period occurring during the year, whether reported or not, related in which they are collected unless they relate to services to be handling costs, a reduction for the value of salvage and other provided in future periods.
Amounts are considered to be assessed recoveries, and any adjustments to claims outstanding from when the policyholders balance has been adjusted for those fees.
If the fees are for services to be provided in future periods, then Claims handling costs include internal and external costs incurred in they are deferred and recognised as the service is provided.
connection with the negotiation and settlement of claims.
Internal Initiation and other front-end fees fees that are assessed against costs include all direct expenses of the claims department and any the policyholder balance as consideration for origination of the part of the general administrative costs directly attributable to the contract are charged on some non-participating investment and claims function.
Where the investment Long-term business provisions contract is recorded at amortised cost, these fees are deferred and Under current IFRS requirements, insurance and participating recognised over the term of the policy by an adjustment to the investment contract liabilities are measured using accounting effective yield.
Where the investment contract is measured at fair policies consistent with those adopted previously under existing value, the front-end fees that relate to the provision of investment accounting practices, with the exception of liabilities remeasured management services are deferred and recognised as the services to reect current market interest rates and those relating to UK are provided.
In certain cases, shadow adjustments to the H Other fee and commission income liabilities or related deferred acquisition costs are recognised directly Other fee and commission income consists primarily of investment in equity so that unrealised gains or losses on assets that are fund management fees, distribution fees from mutual funds, recognised directly in equity affect the measurement of the liability commission revenue from the sale of mutual fund shares, and or related deferred acquisition costs in the same way as realised transfer agent fees for shareholder record keeping.
Revenue from gains or losses.
From 31 December 2004, the Group has adopted investment management fees, distribution fees and transfer agent FRS 27, Life Assurance, for liabilities relating to such contracts.
FRS fees is recognised when earned.
Reinsurance commissions 27 adds to the requirements of IFRS but does not vary them in any receivable and other commission income are recognised on the way, and further details are given in policy A above.
The long-term business provisions are calculated separately for each I Net investment income life operation, based on local regulatory requirements and actuarial Investment income consists of dividends, interest and rents principles consistent with those applied in the UK.
Each calculation receivable for the year, movements in amortised cost on debt represents a determination within a range of possible outcomes, securities, realised gains and losses, and unrealised gains and losses where the assumptions used in the calculations depend on the on FV investments as dened in policy R. Dividends on equity circumstances prevailing in each life operation.
The principal securities are recorded as revenue on the ex-dividend date.
Interest assumptions are disclosed in note 35 b.
For liabilities of the UK income is recognised as it accrues, taking into account the effective with-profit fund, FRS 27 requires liabilities to be calculated as the yield on the investment.
It includes the interest rate differential on realistic basis liabilities as set out by the UKs Financial Services forward foreign exchange contracts.
Rental income is recognised on Authority, adjusted to remove the shareholders share of future an accruals basis.
The realised gain or loss on disposal of an investment is the Present value of future profits PVFP on non-participating difference between the proceeds received, net of transaction costs, business written in a with-profit fund and its original cost or amortised cost as appropriate.
Unrealised For with-profit life funds falling within the scope of the FSA realistic Aviva plc 2005 Financial statements 81 capital regime, and hence FRS 27, an amount may be recognised Other assessments and levies for the present value of future profits on non-participating business The Group is subject to various periodic insurance-related written in a with-profit fund where the determination of the assessments or guarantee fund levies.
Related provisions are realistic value of liabilities in that with-profit fund takes account, established where there is a present obligation legal or constructive directly or indirectly, of this value.
This amount is recognised as a as a result of a past event.
Such amounts are not included within reduction in the liability rather than as an asset on the balance insurance liabilities but are included under Provisions in the sheet, and is then apportioned between the amounts that have balance sheet.
been taken into account in the measurement of liabilities and other K Non-participating investment contract liabilities amounts which are shown as an adjustment to the unallocated Claims divisible surplus.
For non-participating investment contracts with an account Unallocated divisible surplus balance, claims reect the excess of amounts paid over the In certain participating long-term insurance and investment account balance released.
business, the nature of the policy benets is such that the division Provisions between shareholder reserves and policyholder liabilities is Deposits collected under non-participating investment contracts are uncertain.
Amounts whose allocation either to policyholders or not accounted for through the income statement, except for the shareholders has not been determined by the end of the financial investment income attributable to those contracts, but are year are held within liabilities as an unallocated divisible surplus.
accounted for directly through the balance sheet as an adjustment Liability adequacy to the investment contract liability.
At each reporting date, an assessment is made of whether the The majority of the Groups contracts classied as non-participating recognised long-term business provisions are adequate, using investment contracts are unit-linked contracts and are measured at current estimates of future cash ows.
If that assessment shows fair value.
Liabilities for non-linked non-participating contracts are that the carrying amount of the liabilities less related assets is generally measured at amortised cost.
insufficient in the light of the estimated future cash ows, the deficiency is recognised in the income statement by setting up an The fair value liability is in principle established through the use additional provision in the balance sheet.
of prospective discounted cash-ow techniques.
For unit-linked contracts, the fair value liability is equal to the current unit General insurance and health provisions fund value, plus additional non-unit reserves if required on a i Outstanding claims provisions General insurance and health fair value basis.
outstanding claims provisions are based on the estimated ultimate cost of all claims incurred but not settled at the balance sheet date, Amortised cost is calculated as the fair value of consideration whether reported or not, together with related claims handling received at the date of initial recognition, less the net effect of costs.
significant delays are experienced in the notication and principal payments such as transaction costs and front-end fees, settlement of certain types of general insurance claims, particularly plus or minus the cumulative amortisation using the effective in respect of liability business, including environmental and pollution interest rate method of any difference between that initial amount exposures, the ultimate cost of which cannot be known with and the maturity value, and less any write-down for surrender certainty at the balance sheet date.
Provisions for certain claims are payments.
The effective interest rate is the one that equates the discounted, using rates having regard to the returns generated by discounted cash payments to the initial amount.
At each reporting the assets supporting the liabilities.
Any estimate represents a date, the amortised cost liability is determined as the value of future determination within a range of possible outcomes.
Further details best estimate cash ows discounted at the effective interest rate.
of estimation techniques are given in note 35 c. L Reinsurance Outstanding claims provisions are valued net of an allowance for The Group assumes and cedes reinsurance in the normal course of expected future recoveries.
Recoveries include non-insurance assets business, with retention limits varying by line of business.
Premiums that have been acquired by exercising rights to salvage and on reinsurance assumed are recognised as revenue in the same subrogation under the terms of insurance contracts.
manner as they would be if the reinsurance were considered direct business, taking into account the product classication of the ii Provision for unearned premiums The proportion of written reinsured business.
The cost of reinsurance related to long-duration premiums, gross of commission payable to intermediaries, contracts is accounted for over the life of the underlying reinsured attributable to subsequent periods is deferred as a provision for policies, using assumptions consistent with those used to account unearned premiums.
The change in this provision is taken to the for these policies.
income statement in order that revenue is recognised over the period of risk.
Gains or losses on buying retroactive reinsurance are recognised in the income statement immediately at the date of purchase and are iii Liability adequacy At each reporting date, the Group reviews not amortised.
Premiums ceded and claims reimbursed are its unexpired risks and carries out a liability adequacy test for any presented on a gross basis in the consolidated income statement overall excess of expected claims and deferred acquisition costs over and balance sheet as appropriate.
unearned premiums, using the current estimates of future cash ows under its contracts after taking account of the investment Reinsurance assets primarily include balances due from both return expected to arise on assets relating to the relevant general insurance and reinsurance companies for ceded insurance liabilities.
If these estimates show that the carrying Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner amount of its insurance liabilities less related deferred acquisition consistent with the outstanding claims provisions or settled claims costs and additional value in force is insufficient in light of the associated with the reinsured policies and in accordance with the estimated future cash ows, the deficiency is recognised in the relevant reinsurance contract.
income statement by setting up a provision in the balance sheet.
Aviva plc 2005 Financial statements 82 Financial statements continued Accounting policies continued Reinsurance contracts that principally transfer financial risk are N Property and equipment accounted for directly through the balance sheet and are not Owner-occupied properties are carried at their revalued amounts, included in reinsurance assets or liabilities.
A deposit asset or liability which are supported by market evidence, and movements are is recognised, based on the consideration paid or received less any taken to a separate reserve within equity.
When such properties are explicitly identied premiums or fees to be retained by the reinsured.
sold, the accumulated revaluation surpluses are transferred from this reserve to retained earnings.
All other items classed as property If a reinsurance asset is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying and equipment within the balance sheet are carried at historical amount accordingly and recognises that impairment loss in the cost less accumulated depreciation.
A reinsurance asset is impaired if there is objective evidence, as a result of an event that occurred after initial Investment properties under construction are included within recognition of the reinsurance asset, that the Group may not property and equipment until completion, and are stated at cost receive all amounts due to it under the terms of the contract, and less provision for any impairment in their values.
the event has a reliably measurable impact on the amounts that Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation is calculated on the the Group will receive from the reinsurer.
straight-line method to write down the cost of other assets M Goodwill, AVIF and intangible assets to their residual values over their estimated useful lives as follows: Goodwill Properties under construction No depreciation Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over Motor vehicles Three years, or lease term if longer the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets of the acquired Computer equipment Three to five years subsidiary, associate or joint venture at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill Other assets Three to five years on acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 the date of transition to IFRS is carried at its book value original cost less cumulative Where the carrying amount of an asset is greater than its estimated amortisation on that date, less any impairment subsequently recoverable amount, it is written down immediately to its incurred.
Goodwill arising before 1 January 1998 was eliminated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposal of property and against reserves and has not been reinstated.
Goodwill arising on equipment are determined by reference to their carrying amount.
the Groups investments in associates and joint ventures since that All borrowing costs are expensed as they are incurred.
Repairs and date is included within the carrying value of these investments.
maintenance are charged to the income statement during the The carrying amount of goodwill for each cash generating unit is financial period in which they are incurred.
The cost of major reviewed when circumstances or events indicate that there may be renovations is included in the carrying amount of the asset when it uncertainty over its carrying value, and at least annually.
Goodwill is is probable that future economic benets in excess of the most written down for impairment where the recoverable amount is recently assessed standard of performance of the existing asset will insufficient to support its carrying value.
Further details on goodwill ow to the Group and the renovation replaces an identiable part allocation and impairment testing are given in note 15 b. of the asset.
Major renovations are depreciated over the remaining useful life of the related asset.
Under UK GAAP, goodwill previously written off to shareholders funds is taken back through the profit and loss account when O Investment property calculating the profit or loss in the event of any subsequent disposal Investment property is held for long-term rental yields and is not of the underlying investment.
There is no requirement for this occupied by the Group.
Completed investment property is stated at adjustment under IFRS.
its fair value, which is supported by market evidence, as assessed by qualied external valuers or by local qualied staff of the Group in Acquired value of in-force business AVIF overseas operations.
Changes in fair values are recorded in the The present value of future profits on a portfolio of long-term income statement within net investment income.
insurance and investment contracts, acquired either directly or through the purchase of a subsidiary, is recognised as an asset.
P Impairment of non-financial assets In most cases, this is classied as AVIF but, for non-participating Property and equipment and other non-financial assets are investment contracts, it is included within intangibles.
If this results reviewed for impairment losses whenever events or changes in from the acquisition of an investment in an associate, the AVIF is circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be held within the carrying amount of that associate.
In all cases, the recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by AVIF is amortised over the useful lifetime of the related contracts in which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable the portfolio on a systematic basis.
The rate of amortisation is amount, which is the higher of an assets net selling price and value chosen by considering the prole of the additional value of in-force in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are business acquired and the expected depletion in its value.
The value grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately of the acquired in-force long-term business is reviewed annually for identiable cash ows.
any impairment in value and any reductions are charged as Q Derecognition and offset of financial assets and expenses in the income statement.
financial liabilities The full embedded value of the long-term business and further A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or details of the methodology and assumptions are included as part of a group of similar financial assets is derecognised where: supplementary information on pages 200 to 221.
The rights to receive cash ows from the asset have expired: Intangible assets The Company retains the right to receive cash ows from the Intangibles consist primarily of access to distribution networks and asset, but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without customer lists.
These are amortised over their useful lives in each material delay to a third party under a pass-through case, using the straight-line method.
The amortisation charge for arrangement: or the period is included in the income statement under Other operating expenses.
Aviva plc 2005 Financial statements 83 The Company has transferred its rights to receive cash ows Listed AFS securities: The Group performs an objective review of from the asset and either a has transferred substantially all the the current financial position and prospects of the issuer on a risks and rewards of the asset, or b has neither transferred regular basis, to identify whether any impairment provision is nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, required.
This review takes into account the likelihood of the current but has transferred control of the asset.
market price recovering to former levels.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the Unlisted AFS securities: The Group considers the current financial liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
position of the issuer and the future prospects in identifying the requirement for an impairment provision.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable For both listed and unlisted AFS securities identied as being right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to impaired, the cumulative unrealised net loss previously recognised settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability within the AFS reserve is transferred to realised losses for the year.
Mortgages, investment property and securitised loans: Impairment R Financial investments is measured based on the present value of expected future cash The Group classies its investments as either financial assets at fair ows discounted at the effective rate of interest of the loan, value through profit or loss FV or available for sale financial assets subject to the fair value of the underlying collateral.
The classication depends on the purpose for which the is considered to be impaired, the income statement is charged investments were acquired, and is determined by local with the difference between the carrying value and the estimated management at initial recognition.
In general, the FV category is recoverable amount.
Interest income on impaired loans is used as, in most cases, the Groups strategy is to manage its recognised based on the estimated recoverable amount.
financial investments on a fair value basis.
In certain circumstances, Reversals of impairments are only recognised where the decrease in the FV category is used where this eliminates an accounting the impairment can be objectively related to an event occurring mismatch.
The AFS category is used where the relevant life liability after the write down such as an improvement in the debtors credit including shareholders funds is passively managed and carried at rating, and are not recognised in respect of equity instruments.
S Derivative financial instruments and hedging The FV category has two sub-categories those that meet the Derivative financial instruments include foreign exchange contracts, denition as being held for trading and those the Group chooses to interest rate futures, currency and interest rate swaps, currency designate as FV referred to in this accounting policy as other than and interest rate options both written and purchased and other trading.
Fixed maturities, purchased loans and equity securities, financial instruments that derive their value mainly from underlying which the Group buys with the intention to resell in the near term interest rates, foreign exchange rates, commodity values or equity typically between three and six months, are classied as trading.
All derivatives are initially recognised in the balance other securities in the FV category are classied as other than trading.
sheet at their fair value, which usually represents their cost.
They are Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the trade subsequently remeasured at their fair value, with the method of date, which is the date that the Group commits to purchase recognising movements in this value depending on whether they or sell the assets, at their fair values less transaction costs.
are designated as hedging instruments and, if so, the nature of the Debt securities are initially recorded at their fair value which is item being hedged.
Fair values are obtained from quoted market taken to be amortised cost, with amortisation credited or charged prices or, if these are not available, by using valuation techniques to the income statement.
Investments classied as trading, other such as discounted cash ow models or option pricing models.
than trading and AFS are subsequently carried at fair value.
All derivatives are carried as assets when the fair values are positive Changes in the fair value of trading and other than trading and as liabilities when the fair values are negative.
Premiums paid investments are included in the income statement in the period in for derivatives are recorded as an asset on the balance sheet at the which they arise.
Changes in the fair value of securities classied as date of purchase, representing their fair value at that date.
AFS, except for impairment losses and relevant foreign exchange Derivative contracts may be traded on an exchange or gains and losses, are recorded in a separate investment valuation over-the-counter OTC.
Exchange-traded derivatives are reserve within equity.
standardised and include certain futures and option contracts.
The fair values of investments are based on quoted bid prices or OTC derivative contracts are individually negotiated between amounts derived from cash ow models.
Fair values for unlisted contracting parties and include forwards, swaps, caps and equity securities are estimated using applicable price earnings or oors.
Derivatives are subject to various risks including market, price cash ow ratios rened to reect the specic circumstances liquidity and credit risk, similar to those related to the underlying of the issuer.
Equity securities for which fair values cannot be financial instruments.
measured reliably are recognised at cost less impairment.
When The notional or contractual amounts associated with derivative securities classied as AFS are sold or impaired, the accumulated financial instruments are not recorded as assets or liabilities on the fair value adjustments are transferred out of the investment balance sheet as they do not represent the potential gain or loss valuation reserve to the income statement.
These amounts are disclosed in Impairment note 51.
The Group reviews the carrying value of its investments on a regular Interest rate and currency swaps basis.
If the carrying value of an investment is greater than the Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements between two recoverable amount, the carrying value is reduced through a charge parties to exchange periodic payments in the same currency, each to the income statement in the period of impairment.
The following of which is computed on a different interest rate basis, on a policies are used to determine the level of any impairment: specified notional amount.
Most interest rate swaps involve the net Aviva plc 2005 Financial statements 84 Financial statements continued Accounting policies continued exchange of payments calculated as the difference between the For a variety of reasons, certain derivative transactions, while xed and oating rate interest payments.
Currency swaps, in providing effective economic hedges under the Groups risk their simplest form, are contractual agreements that involve the management positions, do not qualify for hedge accounting under exchange of both periodic and final amounts in two different the specic IFRS rules and are therefore treated as derivatives held currencies.
Exposure to gain or loss on both types of swap contracts for trading.
Their fair value gains and losses are recognised will increase or decrease over their respective lives as a function of immediately in other trading income.
maturity dates, interest and foreign exchange rates, and the timing T Loans of payments.
Loans with xed maturities, including policyholder loans, mortgage Interest rate futures, forwards and options contracts loans on investment property, securitised mortgages and collateral Interest futures are exchange-traded instruments and represent loans, are recognised when cash is advanced to borrowers.
commitments to purchase or sell a designated security or money The majority of these loans are carried at their unpaid principal market instrument at a specified future date and price.
Interest rate balances and adjusted for amortisation of premium or discount, forward agreements are OTC where two parties agree on an non-refundable loan fees and related direct costs.
These amounts interest rate and other terms that will become a reference point in are deferred and amortised over the life of the loan as an determining, in concert with an agreed notional principal amount, adjustment to loan yield using the effective interest rate method.
a net payment to be made by one party to the other, depending Loans with indefinite future lives are carried at unpaid principal what rate in fact prevails at a future point in time.
Interest rate balances or cost.
options, which consist primarily of caps and oors, are interest rate Certain mortgages, which back long-term business, have been protection instruments that involve the obligation of the seller to classied at fair value through profit or loss in order to match the pay the buyer an interest rate differential in exchange for a movement in those liabilities.
These loans are revalued to fair value premium paid by the buyer.
This differential represents the at each period end, with movements in valuation being taken to difference between current rate and an agreed rate applied to a the income statement.
Exposure to gain or loss on all interest rate contracts will increase or decrease over their respective lives as To the extent that a loan is uncollectible, it is written off as impaired.
Subsequent recoveries are credited to the income statement.
Foreign exchange contracts U Deferred acquisition costs and other assets Foreign exchange contracts, which include spot, forward and The costs directly attributable to the acquisition of new business for futures contracts, represent agreements to exchange the currency insurance and participating investment contracts excluding those of one country for the currency of another country at an agreed written in the UK are deferred to the extent that they are expected price and settlement date.
Foreign exchange option contracts are to be recoverable out of future margins in revenues on these similar to interest rate option contracts, except that they are based contracts.
For participating contracts written in the UK, acquisition on currencies, rather than interest rates.
Exposure to gain or loss on costs are generally not deferred, as the liability for these contracts is these contracts will increase or decrease over their respective lives as calculated in accordance with the FSAs realistic capital regime and currency exchange and interest rates uctuate.
For non-participating investment and investment fund management contracts, incremental acquisition costs and sales Derivative instruments for hedging enhancements that are directly attributable to securing an On the date a derivative contract is entered into, the Group investment management service are also deferred.
designates certain derivatives as either: Where such business is reinsured, an appropriate proportion of i a hedge of the fair value of a recognised asset or liability the deferred acquisition costs is attributed to the reinsurer, and is fair value hedge : treated as a separate liability.
ii a hedge of a future cash ow attributable to a recognised Long-term business deferred acquisition costs are amortised asset or liability, a highly probable forecast transaction or a rm systematically over a period no longer than that in which they are commitment cash ow hedge : or expected to be recoverable out of these margins.
Deferrable iii a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation net acquisition costs for non-participating investment and investment investment hedge.
fund management contracts are amortised over the period in which the service is provided.
General insurance and health Hedge accounting is used for derivatives designated in this way, deferred acquisition costs are amortised over the period in provided certain criteria are met.
At the inception of the transaction, which the related revenues are earned.
The reinsurers share of the Group documents the relationship between the hedging deferred acquisition costs is amortised in the same manner as the instrument and the hedged item, as well as the risk management underlying asset.
objective and the strategy for undertaking the hedge transaction.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at inception and on Deferred acquisition costs are reviewed by category of business at an ongoing basis, of whether the hedge is expected to be, and has the end of each reporting period and are written off where they are been, highly effective in offsetting the risk in the hedged item.
no longer considered to be recoverable.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and Other assets include vehicles which are subject to repurchase qualify as net investment or cash ow hedges, and that prove to be agreements and inventories of vehicle parts.
The former are carried highly effective in relation to the hedged risk, are recognised in a at the lower of their agreed repurchase price or net realisable value, separate reserve within equity.
Gains and losses accumulated in this whilst the latter are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable reserve are included in the income statement on disposal of the value, where cost is arrived at on the weighted average cost relevant investment or occurrence of the cash ow as appropriate.
formula or first in first out FIFO basis.
Provision is made against inventories which are obsolete or surplus to requirements.
Aviva plc 2005 Financial statements 85 V Cash and cash equivalents For dened contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at banks and in hand, publicly or privately administered pension plans.
Once the deposits held at call with banks, treasury bills and other short-term contributions have been paid, the Group, as employer, has no highly liquid investments with less than 90 days maturity from the further payment obligations.
The Groups contributions are charged date of acquisition.
For the purposes of the cash ow statement, to the income statement in the year to which they relate and are cash and cash equivalents also include bank overdrafts, which are included in staff costs.
included within payables and other financial liabilities on the Other post-retirement obligations balance sheet.
Some Group companies provide post-retirement healthcare or other W Leases benets to their retirees.
The entitlement to these benets is usually Leases, where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of based on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age ownership is retained by the lessor, are classied as operating and the completion of a minimum service period.
Assets held for use in such leases are included in property schemes is material to the Group.
The costs of the Dutch and and equipment, and are depreciated to their residual values over Canadian schemes are included within those for the dened their estimated useful lives.
Rentals from such leases are credited to benefit pension schemes in those countries.
For such schemes in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the other countries, provisions are calculated in line with local relevant leases.
Payments made as lessees under operating leases regulations, with movements being charged to the income net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the statement within staff costs.
income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the Equity compensation plans relevant leases.
The Group offers share award and option plans over the Companys X Provisions and contingent liabilities ordinary shares for certain employees, including a Save As You Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or Earn plan SAYE plan, details of which are given in the Directors constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that Remuneration Report on pages 65 to 74 and in note 28. an outow of resources embodying economic benets will be The Group accounts for options and awards under share equity required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the compensation plans, which were granted after 7 November 2002, amount of the obligation can be made.
Where the Group expects a until such time as they are fully vested, using the fair value based provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance method of accounting the fair value method.
Under this contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but method, the cost of providing equity compensation plans is based only when the reimbursement is more probable than not.
on the fair value of the share awards or option plans at date of The Group recognises a provision for onerous contracts when the grant, which is recognised in the income statement over the expected benets to be derived from a contract are less than the expected vesting period of the related employees and credited to unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract.
the equity compensation reserve, part of shareholders funds.
Contingent liabilities are disclosed if the future obligation is Shares purchased by employee share trusts to fund these awards probable and the amount cannot be reasonably estimated.
are shown as a deduction from shareholders funds at their original cost.
Y Employee benets Employee entitlements to annual leave and long service leave are When the options are exercised and new shares are issued, the recognised when they accrue to employees.
A provision is made proceeds received, net of any transaction costs, are credited to for the estimated liability for annual leave and long-service leave share capital par value and the balance to share premium.
as a result of services rendered by employees up to the balance Where the shares are already held by employee trusts, the net sheet date.
proceeds are credited against the cost of these shares, with the difference between cost and proceeds being taken to retained Pension obligations earnings.
In both cases, the relevant amount in the equity The Group operates a number of dened benefit and dened compensation reserve is then credited to retained earnings.
contribution plans throughout the world, the assets of which are generally held in separate trustee-administered funds.
The pension Z Income taxes plans are generally funded by payments from employees and by the The current tax expense is based on the taxable profits for the year, relevant Group companies, taking account of the recommendations after any adjustments in respect of prior years.
Tax, including tax of qualied actuaries.
relief for losses if applicable, is allocated over profits before taxation and amounts charged or credited to reserves as appropriate.
For dened benefit plans, the pension costs are assessed using the projected unit credit method.
Under this method, the cost of Provision is made for deferred tax liabilities, or credit taken for providing pensions is charged to the income statement so as to deferred tax assets, using the liability method, on all material spread the regular cost over the service lives of employees, in temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities accordance with the advice of qualied actuaries.
The pension and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
obligation is measured as the present value of the estimated future The principal temporary differences arise from depreciation of cash outows using a discount rate based on market yields for property and equipment, revaluation of certain financial assets and high quality corporate bonds.
The resulting pension scheme surplus liabilities including derivative contracts, provisions for pensions and or deficit appears as an asset or obligation in the consolidated other post-retirement benets and tax losses carried forward: and, balance sheet.
The Group has early adopted the December 2004 in relation to acquisitions, on the difference between the fair values amendment to IAS 19, Employee Benets, with the result that all of the net assets acquired and their tax base.
The rates enacted or actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in equity substantively enacted at the balance sheet date are used to through the Statement of recognised income and expense.
Aviva plc 2005 Financial statements 86 Financial statements continued Accounting policies continued Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable ii the instrument is a non-derivative that contains no contractual that future taxable profit will be available against which the obligation to deliver a variable number of shares or is a derivative temporary differences can be utilised.
that will be settled only by the Group exchanging a xed amount of cash or other assets for a xed number of the Groups own Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising from equity instruments.
investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be Share issue costs controlled and it is probable that the difference will not reverse in Incremental external costs directly attributable to the issue of new the foreseeable future.
shares, other than in connection with business combinations, are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Deferred taxes are not provided in respect of temporary differences Share issue costs incurred directly in connection with a business arising from the initial recognition of goodwill, or from goodwill for combination are included in the cost of acquisition.
which amortisation is not deductible for tax purposes, or from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not Dividends a business combination and affects neither accounting profit nor Interim dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in equity in the taxable profit or loss at the time of the transaction.
period in which they are paid.
Final dividends on these shares are recognised when they have been approved by shareholders.
Deferred tax related to fair value re-measurement of  on preference shares are recognised in the period in sale investments, owner-occupied properties and other amounts which they are declared and appropriately approved.
taken directly to equity is recognised in the balance sheet as a deferred tax asset or liability.
Treasury shares Where the Company or its subsidiaries purchase the Companys In addition to paying tax on shareholders profits, the Groups life share capital or obtains rights to purchase its share capital, the businesses in the UK, Ireland and Australia pay tax on policyholders consideration paid including any attributable transaction costs net investment returns policyholder tax on certain products.
of income taxes is shown as a deduction from total shareholders Policyholder tax is accounted for as an income tax and is included equity.
Gains and losses on sales of own shares are charged or within the total tax expense.
The Group has decided to show credited to the treasury share account in equity.
separately the amounts of policyholder tax to provide a more meaningful measure of the tax the Group pays on its profits.
AC Fiduciary activities Current policyholder tax is tax paid at policyholder tax rates.
Assets and income arising from duciary activities, together with Deferred policyholder tax is the tax expected to be paid at related undertakings to return such assets to customers, are policyholder tax rates when temporary differences unwind in future excluded from these financial statements where the Group has no periods.
In the pro forma reconciliations, operating profit has been contractual rights in the assets and acts in a duciary capacity such calculated after charging policyholder tax.
as nominee, trustee or agent.
AA Borrowings AD Earnings per share Borrowings are recognised initially at their issue proceeds less Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income transaction costs incurred.
Subsequently, most borrowings are available to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number generally stated at amortised cost, and any difference between net of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding the average proceeds and the redemption value is recognised in the income number of ordinary shares purchased by the Group and held as statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective treasury shares.
All borrowing costs are expensed as they Earnings per share has also been calculated on the operating profit are incurred.
before impairment of goodwill and other adjusting items, after tax, Where loan notes have been issued in connection with securitised attributable to ordinary shareholders, as the directors believe this equity release mortgages, the Group has taken advantage of the gure provides a better indication of operating performance.
Details revised fair value option under IAS39 to present the mortgages, are given in note 13. associated liabilities and derivative financial instruments at fair value, For the diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of since they are managed as a portfolio on a fair value basis and ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all presentation at fair value provides more relevant information and dilutive potential ordinary shares, such as convertible debt and share eliminates any accounting mismatch.
Potential or contingent share AB Share capital and treasury shares issuances are treated as dilutive when their conversion to shares Equity instruments would decrease net earnings per share.
An equity instrument is a contract that evidences a residual interest AE Operations held for sale in the assets of an entity after deducting all its liabilities.
Accordingly, The requirements of IFRS 5, Non-current Assets Held for Sale and a financial instrument is treated as equity if: Discontinued Operations, have been applied prospectively from i there is no contractual obligation to deliver cash or other financial 1 January 2005.
Assets held for disposal as part of operations which assets or to exchange financial assets or liabilities on terms that may are held for sale are recorded at the lower of their carrying amount be unfavourable: and and their fair value, less the estimated cost to sell the assets.
