Aviva plc 2005 Financial statements 78 Financial statements Accounting policies Aviva plc the Company, a public limited company incorporated Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups and domiciled in the United Kingdom UK, together with its entities are measured in the currency of the primary economic subsidiaries collectively, the Group or Aviva transacts life environment in which that entity operates the functional assurance and long-term savings business, fund management, currency.
The consolidated financial statements are stated in and most classes of general insurance and health business sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentation through its subsidiaries, associates and branches in the UK, Ireland, currency.
Unless otherwise noted, the amounts shown in these Continental Europe, United States US, Canada, Asia, Australia and financial statements are in millions of pounds sterling m. other countries throughout the world.
The Group also invests in As supplementary information, consolidated financial information securities, properties, mortgages and loans and carries on the is also presented in euros.
business of trading in property.
The separate financial statements of the Company are on pages The Group is managed using reportable segments based on the 190 to 198. above activities.
These are long-term business, fund management, FRS 27 general insurance and health, further details of which are given in Financial Reporting Standard 27, Life Assurance, FRS 27 was note 4. issued by the UKs Accounting Standards Board ASB on The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of 13 December 2004, following the Penrose inquiry.
Aviva, along these financial statements are set out below.
with other major insurance companies and the Association of British Insurers ABI, signed a Memorandum of Understanding A Basis of presentation MoU with the ASB relating to FRS 27.
Under this MoU, Aviva From 2005, all European Union listed companies are required to voluntarily agreed to adopt in full the standard from 2005 within prepare consolidated financial statements using International the Groups IFRS financial statements.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and endorsed by the European Within FRS 27, the ASB acknowledged the difficulty of applying the Union.
This is the Groups first set of full year results prepared in requirements retrospectively and it is the Groups view that it would accordance with IFRS accounting policies and its previously reported be impractical to do so in accordance with IAS 8.
Therefore, only 2004 consolidated financial statements have accordingly been the balance sheet at 31 December 2004 has been restated for the restated to comply with IFRS, with the date of transition to IFRS impact of FRS 27.
This has no impact on net assets or profit for the being 1 January 2004.
The principal effects of the adoption of IFRS year ended 31 December 2004, as the adjustments reect changes have been reected within note 1 on first time adoption.
in balance sheet presentation between the unallocated divisible surplus and insurance liabilities.
No adjustments have been made, The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in nor are any required, to the balance sheet at 1 January 2004 or the accordance with IFRS applicable at 31 December 2005.
The IASB income statement for the year ended 31 December 2004. issued amendments to IAS 19, Employee Benets, and IAS 39, The Fair Value Option, in December 2004 and June 2005 The comparatives presented for the year ended 31 December 2004 respectively, and its Interpretations Committee IFRIC issued IFRIC have therefore been prepared in accordance with the Groups IFRS Interpretation 4, Determining whether an Arrangement contains a accounting policies and the transitional arrangements above.
Their requirements are applicable for B Use of estimates accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006, but the The preparation of financial statements requires the Group to make Group has decided to adopt them early and reect their impact in estimates and assumptions that affect items reported in the these financial statements.
consolidated balance sheet and income statement and the In August 2005, the IASB issued IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Disclosures, and amendments to IAS 1, Capital Disclosures, and financial statements.
Although these estimates are based on IAS 39 IFRS 4, Financial Guarantee Contracts.
Their requirements managements best knowledge of current facts, circumstances and, are applicable for accounting periods beginning on or after to some extent, future events and actions, actual results ultimately 1 January 2007 for the first two and, for the third, 1 January 2006. may differ from those estimates, possibly signicantly.
In addition, IFRIC Interpretation 8, Scope of IFRS 2, was issued in C Consolidation principles January 2006 and is effective for accounting periods beginning on Subsidiaries or after 1 May 2006.
The Group has decided not to adopt any of Subsidiaries are those entities including Special Purpose Entities in the standards early in these financial statements but the impact of which the Group, directly or indirectly, has power to exercise control adopting them is not expected to have a material effect on its over financial and operating policies in order to gain economic results.
IFRS 7 will result in amendments to the disclosure of benets.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which financial assets and liabilities, whilst the amendments to IAS 1 bring effective control is transferred to the Group and are excluded from the capital disclosures into line with IFRS 7.
The amendments to IAS consolidation from the date of disposal.
All inter-company 39 and IFRS 4 will not affect the manner in which the Group transactions, balances and unrealised surpluses and deficits on accounts for financial guarantee business.
In addition, IFRS 6 and transactions between Group companies have been eliminated.
IFRIC Interpretations 5, 6 and 7 have been issued during 2005 but are not relevant to the activities of the Group.
From 1 January 2004, the date of first time adoption of IFRS, the Group is required to use the purchase method of accounting to In accordance with Phase I IFRS 4, Insurance contracts, the account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
Under this method, the Group has applied existing accounting practices for insurance and cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of assets given participating investment contracts, modied as appropriate to up, shares issued or liabilities undertaken at the date of acquisition, comply with the IFRS framework and applicable standards.
Further plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The excess of the details are given in policy E below.
cost of acquisition over the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired is recorded as goodwill see policy M below.
