Aviva plc 2005 Financial statements 146 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30 Preference share capital continued At the Annual General Meeting on 26 April 2005, the Companys authorised preference share capital was increased to 700 million and a700 million by the creation of the new shares in the above table, in connection with the November 2004 issue of direct capital instruments DCIs of the same value.
Note 31 below gives the conditions under which the Company has the right but not the obligation to substitute the sterling DCIs with Sterling New Preference Shares and the euro DCIs with Euro New Preference Shares.
Although the directors have no present intention to allot these new shares, and consider the likelihood of such an issue and allotment to be remote, the Company is obliged to create and maintain a sufficient number of authorised new shares to effect a substitution.
The new preference shares, if issued and allotted, would rank, as to payment of a dividend and capital, ahead of the Companys ordinary share capital but behind the cumulative irredeemable preference shares currently in issue.
The issued preference shares are non-voting except where their dividends are in arrears, on a winding up or where their rights are altered.
On a winding up, they carry a preferential right of return of capital ahead of the ordinary shares.
31 Direct capital instrument 2005 2004 Notional amount m m 5.9021% 500 million direct capital instrument 500 500 4.7291% a700 million direct capital instrument 490 490 990 990 The euro and sterling direct capital instruments the DCIs were issued on 25 November 2004, and issue costs of 9 million have been charged to reserves.
The DCIs have no xed redemption date but the Company may, at its sole option, redeem all but not part of the DCIs at their principal amount on 28 November 2014 and 27 July 2020 for the euro and sterling DCIs respectively, or on any respective coupon payment date thereafter.
In addition, under certain circumstances dened in the terms and conditions of the issue, the Company may at its sole option: i redeem all but not part of the DCIs at their principal amount at any time prior to 28 November 2014 and 27 July 2020 for the euro and sterling DCIs respectively: ii substitute at any time all but not some only of the DCIs for, or vary the terms of the DCIs so that they become, Qualifying Tier 1 Securities or Qualifying Upper Tier 2 Securities: iii substitute all but not some only of the DCIs for fully paid non-cumulative preference shares in the Company.
These preference shares could only be redeemed on 28 November 2014 in the case of the euro DCIs and on 27 July 2020 in the case of the sterling DCIs, or in each case on any dividend payment date thereafter.
The Company has the right to choose whether or not to pay any dividend on the new shares, and any such dividend payment will be non-cumulative.
The Company has the option to defer coupon payments on the DCIs on any relevant payment date.
Deferred coupons shall be satisfied only in the following circumstances, all of which occur at the sole option of the Company: i Redemption: or ii Substitution by, or variation so they become, alternative Qualifying Tier 1 Securities or Qualifying Upper Tier 2 Securities: or iii Substitution by preference shares.
No interest will accrue on any deferred coupon.
Deferred coupons will be satisfied by the issue and sale of ordinary shares in the Company at their prevailing market value, to a sum as near as practicable to and at least equal to the relevant deferred coupons.
In the event of any coupon deferral, the Company will not declare or pay any dividend on its ordinary or preference share capital.
