The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2005 51 Investor Information Results Dividends Half year announced July Ordinary shares: Full year announced January First interim paid end May Second interim paid end August The Report and Accounts are posted to shareholders in Third interim paid end November January and the AGM is held in London in February.
Final paid end February Share Price Information Debenture stock interest The market price of the Companys ordinary shares is published in 4% debenture stock paid on 5 January and 5 July.
The Financial Times and other leading newspapers.
The share 1 10 2% debenture stock 2016 and 8% debenture stock 2023 price and details of the Companys performance can be found on paid on 30 April and 31 October.
co. uk Investing in Bankers Ordinary shares of Bankers may be bought or sold directly The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List SEDOL code is through a stockbroker, accountant, other independent 0076700. financial adviser or through a number of banks or building societies who are also providing this service.
Alternatively, The Financial Times also provides on a daily basis an estimate shares may be bought directly through the Henderson of the net asset value and of the discount premium.
Investment Trust Share Plan and a Henderson ISA, and can be held in a Henderson Transfer PEP.
History The Company was incorporated in 1888.
Since seven of the nine Disability original directors were bankers by profession, the name The Copies of this Report and Accounts or other documents issued Bankers Investment Trust, Limited was considered appropriate.
by the Company are available from the Company Secretary.
The Company has paid dividends on the equity capital every year If needed, copies can be made available in a variety of formats, since incorporation except in the years 1892 and 1893. either Braille or on audio tape or larger type as appropriate.
Nominee Code You can contact our registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, who The Bankers Investment Trust PLC undertakes to provide have installed textphones to allow speech and hearing copies of shareholder communications to nominee impaired people who have their own textphone to contact operators who have indicated in advance a wish to receive them directly by ringing 0870 600 3950 without the need for them, for the purpose of distribution to their customers.
Specially trained operators are available during normal business hours to answer queries via Nominee operators are encouraged to advise investors this service.
that they are able to attend meetings and to speak at meetings when invited by the Chairman.
Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk operator provided by the Royal National Institute for Deaf People you Investors in the Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan, should dial 18001 followed by the number you wish to dial.
the Henderson Selection ISA and the Henderson Selection Transfer PEP receive all shareholder communications, an For investors through the Henderson Investment Trust Share invitation to the AGM and Voting Instruction Form to Plan, Henderson ISA or Henderson Transfer PEP or ISA a facilitate voting.
textphone telephone service is available on 020 7850 5406.
This service is available during normal business hours.
Capital Gains Tax The calculation of the tax on chargeable gains will depend on personal circumstances.
If you are in any doubt about your personal tax position, you are recommended to contact your professional adviser.
52 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2005 Investor Information continued Directors Registrars Richard D Brewster Chairman Lloyds TSB Registrars, Richard W Killingbeck The Causeway, James Morley Worthing, Michael B Moule West Sussex BN99 6DA Francis I Sumner Senior Independent Director Telephone: 0870 601 5366 David G Thomas There is now a range of shareholder information on line.
You can check your holding and find practical help on transferring Audit Committee shares or updating your details at www.
co. uk James Morley Chairman Francis I Sumner New Zealand Registrars David G Thomas Computershare Investor Services Limited, Private Bag 92119, Management Engagement Committee Auckland 1020, New Zealand Richard D Brewster Chairman Telephone: New Zealand 64 09 488 8777 Richard W Killingbeck James Morley New Zealand Stockbrokers Francis I Sumner First NZ Capital Securities, David G Thomas Level 20, ANZ Centre, 23-29 Albert Street, Nomination Committee PO Box 5333, Richard D Brewster Chairman Auckland, Francis I Sumner New Zealand Richard W Killingbeck Solicitors Charities Committee Norton Rose, Francis I Sumner Chairman Kempson House, PO Box 570, Richard D Brewster Camomile Street, London EC3A 7AN Investment Manager Henderson Global Investors Limited is Bankers authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority Bank of New York Europe Limited, and is represented by Alex Crooke 67 Lombard Street, London EC3P 3DL Secretary Henderson Secretarial Services Limited JP Morgan Chase & Co, represented by Wendy King FCIS 60 Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP Registered Number Registered in England No.
26351C Stockbrokers JP Morgan Cazenove, Registered Office 20 Moorgate, 4 Broadgate, London EC2R 6DA London EC2M 2DA Telephone: 020 7818 1818 Fax: 020 7818 1819 Independent Auditors  LLP, The Company is a member of Southwark Towers, the Association of Investment Trust Companies 32 London Bridge Street, London SE1 9SY Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan The Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan offers a simple and flexible way of investing in The Bankers Investment Trust PLC.
The Share Plan offers the following: Regular savings from 50 per month quarter, or lump sum investments from 500 and additional top-up from 100 An income reinvestment facility.
Alternatively, you can have dividends paid to your bank or building society account All paperwork and documentation is simplified and reduced to a minimum Half yearly valuations with consolidated tax certificate and complimentary newsletters Henderson ISA You can invest directly in The Bankers Investment Trust PLC through the Henderson ISA.
The ISA offers the following: Tax free growth Regular savings from 100 per month or lump sum investments from 2,000 An income reinvestment facility.
Alternatively, you can have dividends paid to your bank or building society account Half yearly valuations, reports and complimentary newsletters Both Mini and Maxi ISAs available for investment by lump sum or regular savings Henderson Transfer PEP Although you cannot subscribe new funds to any PEP, it is possible to transfer existing PEP funds in cash from other managers into a Henderson PEP.
This offers you the opportunity to invest PEP funds in The Bankers Investment Trust PLC.
Further Information Please consult our website www.
com or write to Henderson Global Investors, FREEPOST, Newbury RG14 2ZZ.
Alternatively, please contact your professional adviser for further information or call our Investor Services Department on freephone 0800 832 832 quoting the reference REPORT.
Please call 44 20 7818 1818 if you are telephoning from abroad.
Please remember that the value of an investment and the income from it can fall as well as rise as a result of market and currency fluctuations and you may not get back the amount originally invested.
Tax assumptions may change if the law changes and the value of tax relief will depend upon your individual circumstances.
Henderson Global Investors is the name under which Henderson Global Investors Limited, Henderson Investment Funds Limited, Henderson Fund Management plc, Henderson Investment Management Limited and Henderson Administration Limited all authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority provide investment products and services.
We may record telephone calls for our mutual protection and to improve customer service.
The Bankers Investment Trust PLC is managed by Printed by Garden House Press, London HGI9201 2005
