Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting presentation Changes in Accounting Policy Acquisitions As a result of the requirement to use the accounting policies applied as On 1st June 2005, Barclays Asset and Sales Finance BASF acquired at 31st December 2005 to the IFRS transition and 2004 comparatives, a 51% share and controlling stake in Fiats Iveco Vehicle Finance there have been no changes in IFRS accounting policies.
The transaction will expand BASFs commercial vehicle permitted by IFRS 1, IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 have not been applied expertise.
The impact of adopting these standards as On 30th June 2005, EnterCard, the joint venture between Barclays at 1st January 2005 is set out in Note 62.
Bank PLC and FreningsSparbanken also known as Swedbank, Changes in Accounting Estimates which was announced on 4th February 2005, began operations.
The Group has undertaken a review of the actual useful economic lives Barclays Bank PLC has a 50% economic interest in the joint venture.
of property, plant and equipment.
As a result of this review, the EnterCard provides credit cards in the Nordic market, initially in assumed useful economic lives of the costs of adaptation of freehold Sweden and Norway.
and leasehold property installed in freehold and leasehold property On 1st July 2005, Barclays acquired the wealth business of ING have increased from 10 to a range of 10-15 years.
The useful economic Securities Bank France consisting of ING Ferri and ING Private lives of fixtures and fittings and other equipment have increased from Banking.
This change in accounting estimate better reflects historical experience and has been applied prospectively from On 9th May 2005, Barclays announced the terms of a recommended 1st January 2005.
This has reduced the depreciation charge for the acquisition of a majority stake in Absa Group Limited Absa.
The acquisition was subject to a number of conditions, one of which was the approval of the South African Minister of Finance, under the Future Accounting Developments Banks Act, 1990, of South Africa.
As part of the Banks Act approval IFRS 7 Financial Instruments Disclosures and an amendment to process, Barclays confirmed its long-term commitment to investing IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements on capital disclosures in South Africa pursuant to the acquisition of Absa and its intention to were issued by the IASB in August 2005 for application in accounting retain a controlling stake.
Barclays also acknowledged the importance periods beginning on or after 1st January 2007 and have been adopted of maintaining the South African character of Absa, in which regard by the European Commission.
The new or revised disclosures will be the Chairman of Absa, Dr Danie Cronj, would continue to serve as adopted by the Group for reporting in 2007. chairman and would become a non-executive Director of Barclays PLC Consideration will be given early in 2006 to the implications, if any, of and Barclays Bank PLC and Dr Steve Booysen would remain as the following IFRIC interpretations issued during 2005 which first apply Group Chief Executive of Absa.
Three Barclays representatives were to accounting periods beginning on or after 1st January 2006: appointed to the Absa board.
Barclays has consolidated Absa from 27th July 2005.
As at 31st December 2005, Barclays shareholding Interpretation 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a was 377,527,453 ordinary shares 56.6%.
lease Interpretation 5 Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning, The acquisition was endorsed by Absas black economic empowerment Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds partner.
Batho Bonke Capital Proprietary Limited and the Absa Share Interpretation 6 Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specific Ownership Trust hold redeemable cumulative option-holding Market Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment preference shares in Absa.
These redeemable preference shares have the same rights as ordinary shares, including voting rights amounting Interpretation 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 to approximately 11% of the aggregate voting rights, save for the Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies, first applies to rights relating to dividends, redemption and option liquidation.
accounting periods beginning on or after 1st March 2006.
While this is Each redeemable preference share carries the option to acquire one unlikely to have any implications for the Group, if necessary, it will be Absa ordinary share at a discount to the market price during an applied from 1st January 2007. option exercise period commencing on 2nd July 2007 and ending on US GAAP 1st July 2009.
Significant differences exist between accounting principles generally accepted under IFRS and those generally accepted in the US.
The effect of US GAAP profit attributable to equity holders of the parent and shareholders equity excluding minority interests for Barclays PLC Group is set out in Note 63.
