Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies followed UK accounting standards issued by the UK Accounting Significant Accounting Policies Standards Board and the pronouncements of its Urgent Issues Task 1.
Reporting entity Force, Statements of Recommended Practice issued by the British These financial statements are prepared for the Barclays PLC Group Bankers Association and by the Finance and Leasing Association, and Barclays or the Group under Section 227 2 of the Companies Act the accounting requirements of the Companies Act 1985 collectively, 1985.
The Group is an international financial services group engaged in UK GAAP.
The Group has used the provisions of IFRS 1 in arriving the provision of a wide range of financial services, including banking, at appropriate opening balances for the purposes of these financial investment banking, venture capital and asset management.
In statements, as follows: addition, individual financial statements have been prepared for the Goodwill holding company, Barclays PLC the Company, under Section The Group has not applied IFRS 3, Business Combinations 226 2 b of the Companies Act 1985. retrospectively to business combinations prior to the date of transition.
Barclays PLC is a public limited company, incorporated in England and The carrying amount of goodwill in the UK GAAP balance sheet as at Wales and having a registered office in England and Wales.
31st December 2003 has accordingly been brought forward without adjustment.
Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards The consolidated financial statements of the Barclays PLC Group and Property, plant and equipment the individual financial statements of Barclays PLC, have been prepared The Group has adopted the carrying values under UK GAAP of all items in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS of property, plant and equipment at the date of transition as their and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting deemed cost rather than either reverting to historical cost or carrying Interpretations Committee IFRIC as adopted by the European Union.
out a valuation as permitted by IFRS 1.
In all material respects, this is also in accordance with full IFRS.
Cumulative foreign currency difference The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the The Group has brought forward a nil opening balance on the consolidated and separate financial statements are set out below.
cumulative foreign currency translation adjustment arising from the These policies have been consistently applied, except for the first-time retranslation of foreign operations, which is shown as a separate item application of IFRS relating to financial instruments and insurance in shareholders equity at the date of transition in accordance with IAS contracts for which the 2004 comparatives have been prepared in 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
accordance with UK generally accepted accounting principles UK Employee benefits GAAP as permitted by IFRS 1 and as is described in more detail in For defined benefit pension schemes and other post-retirement the relevant accounting polices.
benefits, the Group has recognised all cumulative actuarial gains and In addition, the disclosure provisions of amendment to IAS 19 losses at the date of transition.
Employee Benefits Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group Plans and Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Disclosures have been adopted from 1st January 2004.
The other The Group has elected not to re-recognise financial assets and provisions of the amendment have not changed any accounting liabilities derecognised before 1st January 2004. policies applied to Barclays PLC Group or Barclays PLC individual statements.
Share-based payment The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 to grants of 3.
Basis of preparation shares and share options whether they were granted before or after The consolidated and individual financial statements have been 7th November 2002. prepared under the historical cost convention as modified to include 5.
First-time application of IFRS relating to Financial Instruments the fair valuation of certain financial instruments and contracts to buy and Insurance Contracts or sell non-financial items and trading inventories to the extent In addition to the options described above, IFRS 1 also includes specific required or permitted under accounting standards and as set out in the transitional provisions for International Accounting Standard 32, relevant accounting polices.
They are stated in millions of pounds Financial Instruments, Disclosure and Presentation, International Sterling, m, the currency of the country in which Barclays PLC Accounting Standard 39, Financial Instruments Recognition and is incorporated.
Measurement and International Financial Reporting Standard 4, Critical accounting estimates Insurance Contracts.
The Group has decided to adopt these provisions The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS and therefore has not applied these standards to the 2004 comparatives.
requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires The impact of these standards is reflected through further adjustments management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the to shareholders equity as at 1st January 2005.
In the 2004 comparatives, accounting policies.
The notes to the financial statements set out areas financial instruments and insurance contracts are included using the involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where measurement bases and the disclosure requirements of UK GAAP assumptions are significant to the consolidated and individual financial relating to financial instruments and insurance contracts.
statements such as fair value of financial instruments Note 57, loan loss impairment Note 18, goodwill Note 27, intangible assets 6.
Effect of the transition to IFRS Note 28 and retirement benefit obligations Note 38.
A description of the differences between UK GAAP and IFRS accounting policies is set out in Note 62 to the accounts.
First-time application of IFRS Reconciliations of balance sheets prepared under UK GAAP and IFRS at The Group has applied IFRS in its financial reporting with effect from 1st January 2004 and 31st December 2004 are included in Note 62 to 1st January 2004, the date of transition, in accordance with the the accounts.
Reconciliations of the profit and loss account prepared in transitional provisions set out in IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of accordance with UK GAAP and prepared in accordance with IFRS for International Financial Reporting Standards.
Previously, the Group Barclays PLC 134 Annual Report 2005 the year ending 31st December 2004 are included in Note 62 to the recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made accounts.
In addition, a reconciliation of the amount of shareholders payments on behalf of the entity.
equity at 1st January 2005, before and after the application of IAS 32, IAS The Groups share of the results of associates and joint ventures is 39 and IFRS 4, and an explanation of the effects of their application on based on financial statements made up to a date not earlier than three the opening 2005 balance sheet, is presented in Note 62 to the accounts.
months before the balance sheet date, adjusted to conform with the The Groups accounting policies set out below, insofar as they relate accounting polices of the Group.
Unrealised gains on transactions to financial instruments and insurance contracts set out the policy are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the investee.
applied both before and after the application of these standards on Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides 1st January 2005. evidence of impairment in the asset transferred.
Consolidation In the individual financial statements, investments in subsidiaries, Subsidiaries associates and joint ventures are stated at cost less impairment, if any.
The consolidated financial statements combine the financial 8.
Foreign currency translation statements of Barclays PLC and all its subsidiaries, including certain The consolidated and individual financial statements are presented in special purpose entities where appropriate, made up to 31st December.
Sterling, which is the functional currency of the parent Company.
Entities qualify as subsidiaries where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups benefits from its activities, generally accompanying a shareholding of entities are measured using their functional currency, being the more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are operates.
considered in assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the appropriate Details of the principal subsidiaries are given in Note 49. functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is of the transactions.
Monetary items denominated in foreign transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date currencies are retranslated at the rate prevailing at the period end.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the retranslation and settlement of these items are recognised in the income The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the statement except for qualifying cash flow hedges or hedges of net purchase of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the investments.
See accounting policy 15 on page 140 for the policies fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities on hedge accounting.
incurred or assumed, plus any costs directly related to the acquisition.
The excess of the cost of an acquisition over the Groups share of the Non-monetary assets that are measured at fair value are translated fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
using the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined.
See accounting policy 17 on page 142 for the accounting policy for Exchange differences on equities and similar non-monetary items held goodwill.
Intra-group transactions and balances are eliminated on at fair value through profit or loss, are reported as part of the fair value consolidation and consistent accounting policies are used throughout gain or loss.
Translation differences on equities classified as available the Group for the purposes of the consolidation.
for sale financial assets and non-monetary items are included directly in equity.
As the consolidated financial statements include partnerships where a Group member is a partner, advantage has been taken of For the purposes of translation into the reporting currency, assets, the exemption of Regulation 7 of the Partnerships and Unlimited liabilities and equity of foreign operations are translated at the closing Companies Accounts Regulations 1993 with regard to the rate, and items of income and expense are translated into Sterling at preparation and filing of individual partnership financial statements.
the rates prevailing on the dates of the transactions, or average rates of exchange where these approximate to actual rates.
Associates and joint ventures An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence, The exchange differences arising on the translation of a foreign but not control, over the operating and financial management policy operation are included in cumulative translation reserves within decisions.
This is generally demonstrated by the Group holding in shareholders equity and included in the profit or loss on disposal excess of 20%, but no more than 50%, of the voting rights.
or partial disposal of the operation.
A joint venture exists where the Group has a contractual arrangement Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of with one or more parties to undertake activities typically, though not foreign subsidiaries are maintained in the functional currency of the necessarily, through entities which are subject to joint control.
foreign operation, translated at the closing rate and are included in hedges of net investments where appropriate.
Unless designated as at fair value through profit and loss as set out in policy 10, the Groups investments in associates and joint ventures are 9.
Interest, fees and commissions initially recorded at cost and increased or decreased each year by the From 1st January 2005 Groups share of the post-acquisition net income or loss, or other Interest movements reflected directly in the equity of the associated or jointly 3.5 Interest income is recognised in interest receivable in the income controlled entity.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associate or statement for all interest-bearing financial instruments classified as joint venture is included in the carrying amount of the investment net held to maturity, available for sale or other loans and receivables using of any accumulated impairment loss.
When the Groups share of the effective interest method.
losses in an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds the recorded interest, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 135 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised Prior to 1st January 2005 cost of a financial asset or liability or group of assets and liabilities Premiums are deferred and included in accruals and deferred income and of allocating the interest income or interest expense over the in the Group balance sheet.
Following regular reviews of the amount relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly of income required to cover anticipated losses in respect of this discounts the expected future cash payments or receipts through the lending, deferred income is released to the income statement on an expected life of the financial instrument, or when appropriate, a shorter annual basis.
period, to the net carrying amount of the instrument.
The application Insurance premiums of the method has the effect of recognising income and expense Insurance premiums are recognised in the period earned.
receivable or payable on the instrument evenly in proportion to the amount outstanding over the period to maturity or repayment.
Net trading income Income arises from the margins which are achieved through marketIn calculating effective interest, the Group estimates cash flows making and customer business and from changes in market value using projections based on its experience of customers behaviour caused by movements in interest and exchange rates, equity prices and considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument but other market variables.
Trading positions are held at fair value and the excluding future credit losses.
Fees, including those for early resulting gains and losses are included in the Income statement, redemption, are included in the calculation to the extent that they can together with interest and dividends arising from long and short be measured and are considered to be an integral part of the effective positions and funding costs relating to trading activities.
Cash flows arising from the direct and incremental costs of issuing financial instruments are also taken into account in the Lending related fees and commissions payable and incentives calculation.
Where it is not possible to otherwise estimate reliably From 1st January 2005 the cash flows or the expected life of a financial instrument, effective Fees and commissions payable to introducers in respect of obtaining interest is calculated by reference to the payments or receipts specified lending business, where these are direct and incremental costs related in the contract, and the full contractual term.
to the issue of a financial instrument, are included in interest income as Fees and commissions part of the effective interest rate.
Unless included in the effective interest calculation, fees and Prior to 1st January 2005 commissions are recognised on an accruals basis as the service is provided.
Fees and commissions not integral to effective interest Fees and commissions payable to introducers in respect of obtaining arising from negotiating, or participating in the negotiation of a certain lending business, where this is the primary form of distribution, transaction from a third party, such as the acquisition of loans, are charged to the income statement as fees and commissions shares or other securities or the purchase or sale of businesses, are payable, over the anticipated life of the loans.
recognised on completion of the underlying transaction.
Portfolio and The costs of mortgage incentives, which comprise cashbacks and other management advisory and service fees are recognised based on interest discounts, are charged to the income statement as a reduction the applicable service contracts.
Asset management fees related to to interest receivable as incurred.
investment funds are recognised over the period the service is provided.
The same principle is applied to the recognition of income Dividends from subsidiaries from wealth management, financial planning and custody services that In the individual financial statements of Barclays PLC, dividends from are continuously provided over an extended period of time.
subsidiaries are accounted for on the basis of dividends received in the accounting period.
Commitment fees, together with related direct costs, for loan facilities where draw-down is probable are deferred and recognised as an 10.
Financial assets and liabilities adjustment to the effective interest on the loan once drawn.
From 1st January 2005 Commitment fees in relation to facilities where draw-down is not Financial assets probable are recognised over the term of the commitment.
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: Prior to 1st January 2005 financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss: loans and receivables: held to maturity investments and available for Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, sale financial assets.
Management determines the classification of with the exception of interest on non-performing loans as set out in financial assets and liabilities at initial recognition.
Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss Fee income relating to loans and advances is recognised in the Financial instruments are classified in this category if they are held for income statement to match the cost of providing a continuing service, trading, or if they are designated by management under the fair value together with a reasonable profit margin.
Where a fee is charged in option.
Instruments are classified as held for trading if they are: lieu of interest, it is recognised in the income statement as interest receivable on a level yield basis over the life of the advance.
Fees and i acquired principally for the purposes of selling or repurchasing in commissions receivable in respect of all other services provided are the near term: recognised in the income statement when the related services are ii part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that are performed and when considered recoverable.
managed together and for which there is evidence of a recent Mortgage indemnity premiums actual pattern of short-term profit-taking: or From 1st January 2005 iii a derivative, except for a derivative that is a financial guarantee Mortgage indemnity premiums received are included in the effective contract or a designated and effective hedging instrument.
interest rate on the associated loan.
Barclays PLC 136 Annual Report 2005 Financial instruments cannot be transferred into or out of this category when the rights to receive cash flows have expired or the Group has after inception.
Financial instruments included in this category are transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
recognised initially at fair value and transaction costs are taken directly Regular way purchases and sales of held to maturity financial assets to the Income statement.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair are recognised on contractual settlement.
value are included directly in the Income statement.
The instruments Available for sale are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows have expired Available for sale assets are non-derivative financial assets that are or the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of designated as available for sale and are not categorised into any of the ownership and the transfer qualifies for derecognition.
They are initially recognised at fair Regular way purchases and sales of financial instruments held for value including direct and incremental transaction costs.
They are trading or designated under the fair value option are recognised on subsequently held at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes trade date, being the date on which the Group commits to purchase in fair value are included as a separate component of equity until sale or sell the asset.
when the cumulative gain or loss is transferred to the income statement.
Interest determined using the effective interest method The fair value option is used in the following circumstances: see accounting policy 9 on page 135, impairment losses and i financial assets backing insurance contracts and financial assets translation differences on monetary items are recognised in the income backing investment contracts are designated at fair value through statement.
The assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash profit or loss because the related liabilities have cash flows that flows have expired or the Group has transferred substantially all the are contractually based on the performance of the assets or the risks and rewards of ownership.
related liabilities are insurance contracts whose measurement incorporates current information.
Fair valuing the assets through Regular way purchases and sales of available for sale financial profit and loss significantly reduces the recognition instruments are recognised on trade date, being the date on which inconsistencies that would arise if the financial assets were the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
classified as available for sale: Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost, except for trading ii financial assets, loans to customers, financial liabilities, financial liabilities and liabilities designated at fair value, which are held at fair guarantees and structured notes may be designated at fair value value through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when through profit or loss if they contain substantive embedded they are extinguished.
derivatives: Determining fair value iii financial assets, loans to customers, financial liabilities, financial Where the classification of a financial instrument requires it to be guarantees and structured notes may be designated at fair value stated at fair value, this is determined by reference to the quoted bid through profit or loss where doing so significantly reduces price or asking price as appropriate in an active market wherever measurement inconsistencies that would arise if the related possible.
Where no such active market exists for the particular asset, derivatives were treated as held for trading and the underlying the Group uses a valuation technique to arrive at the fair value, financial instruments were carried at amortised cost: and including the use of prices obtained in recent arms-length transactions, iv Certain private equity and other investments that are managed, discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and other and evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with a valuation techniques commonly used by market participants.
documented risk management or investment strategy and Profits or losses are only recognised on initial recognition when such reported to key management personnel on that basis are profits can be measured solely by reference-observable current market designated at fair value through profit and loss.
transactions or valuation techniques based solely on observable Loans and receivables market inputs.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or Prior to 1st January 2005, financial assets were accounted for as follows: determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market and which are not classified as available for sale.
Loans and receivables Loans and advances are initially recognised at fair value including direct and incremental Loans and advances, other than those held in a dealing portfolio, are transaction costs.
They are subsequently valued at amortised cost, recorded in the balance sheet at cost, less interest in suspense debited using the effective interest method see accounting policy 9 on page to the customers account, specific and general provisions.
They are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows held in a dealing portfolio for the purpose of trading on a secondary have expired or the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and market are valued at the lower of cost and market value.
Investment securities Regular way purchases and sales of loans and receivables are Investment securities are debt securities and equity shares intended recognised on contractual settlement.
for use on a continuing basis by the Group and identified as such.
Investment securities are stated at cost less any provision for Held to maturity impairment.
The cost of dated investment securities is adjusted for the Held to maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with 3.5 amortisation of premiums or discounts on purchase over the period to fixed or determinable payments that the Groups management has the redemption.
The amortisation of premiums and discounts is included intention and ability to hold to maturity.
They are initially recognised at in interest receivable.
fair value including direct and incremental transaction costs.
They are subsequently valued at amortised cost, using the effective interest Other debt securities and equity shares are stated at market value and method see accounting policy 9 on page 135.
They are derecognised profits and losses arising from this revaluation are taken directly to the Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 137 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies income statement through dealing profits.
Listed securities are valued the loss is recognised using an allowance account and recognised in based on market prices, with long positions at bid and short positions the income statement.
Unlisted securities are valued, based on the Directors The calculation of the present value of the estimated future cash flows estimate, which takes into consideration discounted cash flows, price of a collateralised financial asset reflect the cash flows that may result earnings ratios and other valuation techniques.
from foreclosure costs for obtaining and selling the collateral, whether In the case of private equity investments, listed and unlisted or not foreclosure is probable.
investments are stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
For the purposes of a collective evaluation of impairment, financial 11.
Impairment of financial assets assets are grouped on the basis of similar risk characteristics, taking From 1st January 2005 into account asset type, industry, geographical location, collateral type, past-due status and other relevant factors.
These characteristics are The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is relevant to the estimation of future cash flows for groups of such objective evidence that a financial asset or a portfolio of financial assets by being indicative of the counterpartys ability to pay all assets carried at amortised cost is impaired.
A financial asset or amounts due according to the contractual terms of the assets portfolio of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are being evaluated.
incurred if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more loss events that occurred after the initial Future cash flows in a group of financial assets that are collectively recognition of the asset and prior to the balance sheet date a loss evaluated for impairment are estimated on the basis of the contractual event and that loss event or events has had an impact on the cash flows of the assets in the group and historical loss experience for estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or the portfolio that assets with credit risk characteristics similar to those in the group.
Objective evidence that a financial asset or Historical loss experience is adjusted based on current observable data a portfolio is impaired includes observable data that comes to the to reflect the effects of current conditions that did not affect the period attention of the Group about the following loss events: on which the historical loss experience is based and to remove the effects of conditions in the historical period that do not currently exist.
a significant financial difficulty of the issuer or obligor: The methodology and assumptions used for estimating future cash b a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest flows are reviewed regularly to reduce any differences between loss or principal payments: estimates and actual loss experience.
c the lender, for economic or legal reasons relating to the Following impairment, interest income is recognised using the original borrowers financial difficulty, granting to the borrower a effective rate of interest which was used to discount the future cash concession that the lender would not otherwise consider: flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
d it becomes probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or When a loan is uncollectable, it is written off against the related other financial reorganisation: provision for loan impairment.
Such loans are written off after all the e the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset necessary procedures have been completed and the amount of the loss because of financial difficulties: or has been determined.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off decrease the amount of the provision for loan impairment f observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in in the income statement.
the estimated future cash flows from a portfolio of financial assets since the initial recognition of those assets, although the decrease If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss cannot yet be identified with the individual financial assets in the decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event portfolio, including: occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance i adverse changes in the payment status of borrowers in the account.
The amount of the reversal is recognised in the income portfolio: statement.
ii national or local economic conditions that correlate with Equity securities acquired in exchange for loans and advances in order defaults on the assets in the portfolio.
to achieve an orderly realisation are accounted for as a disposal of the The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment loan and an acquisition of equity securities.
Where control is obtained exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, over an entity as a result of the transaction, the entity is consolidated.
and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not Any further impairment of the assets or business acquired is treated as individually significant.
If the Group determines that no objective an impairment of the relevant asset or business and not as an evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial impairment of the original instrument.
asset, whether significant or not, it includes the asset in a group of In the case of equity instruments classified as available for sale, a financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and collectively significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below assesses them for impairment.
Assets that are individually assessed for its cost is considered in determining whether impairment exists.
Where impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be such evidence exists, the cumulative net loss that has been previously recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment.
recognised directly in equity is removed from equity and recognised in For loans and receivables and assets held to maturity, the amount of the income statement.
In the case of debt instruments classified as impairment loss is measured as the difference between the assets available for sale, impairment is assessed based on the same criteria as carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows all other financial assets.
Reversals of impairment of debt securities are discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
The amount of recognised in the income statement.
Reversals of impairment of equity Barclays PLC 138 Annual Report 2005 shares are not recognised in the income statement.
Increases in the fair Similarly, where the Group borrows or purchases securities subject to a value of equity shares after impairment are recognised directly in equity.
commitment to resell them a reverse repo but does not acquire the risks and rewards of ownership, the transactions are treated as collateralised Prior to 1st January 2005 loans, and the securities are not included in the balance sheet.
Specific provisions are raised when the Group considers that the The difference between sale and repurchase price is accrued over the creditworthiness of a borrower has deteriorated such that the recovery life of the agreements using the effective interest method.
Securities of the whole or part of an outstanding advance is in serious doubt.
lent to counterparties are also retained in the financial statements.
Typically, this is done on an individual basis, although scope exists within the retail businesses, where the portfolio comprises Securities borrowed are not recognised in the financial statements, homogeneous assets and where statistical techniques are appropriate, unless these are sold to third parties, at which point the obligation to to raise specific provisions on a portfolio basis.
repurchase the securities is recorded as a trading liability at fair value and any subsequent gain or loss included in net trading income.
General provisions are raised to cover losses which are judged to be present in loans and advances at the balance sheet date, but which Prior to 1st January 2005 have not been specifically identified as such.
These provisions are The cash legs of repos and reverse repos are included within loans and adjusted at least half yearly by an appropriate charge or release of advances to banks, loans and advances to customers, deposits by banks general provision based on a statistical analysis.
The accuracy of this and customer accounts.
The Group aims to earn net interest income analysis is periodically assessed against actual losses.
Gradings are and net trading income from these activities, as well as funding its own used to rate the credit quality of borrowers.
Each grade corresponds holdings of securities.
The difference between sale and repurchase and to an Expected Default Frequency and is calculated by using manual purchase and resale prices for such transactions, including dividends or computer driven score-sheets validated by an analysis of the Groups received where appropriate, is charged or credited to the income own historical data.
This grade can be derived from different sources statement over the life of the relevant transactions.
depending upon the borrower e. g. internal model, credit rating agency.
The general provision also takes into account the economic 13.
Securitisation transactions climate in the market in which the Group operates and the level of Certain Group undertakings have issued debt securities or have entered security held in relation to each category of counterparty.
The general into funding arrangements with lenders in order to finance specific provision includes a specifically identified element to cover country loans and advances to customers.
transfer risk calculated on a basis consistent with the overall general From 1st January 2005 provision calculation.
General provisions are created with respect to the recoverability of assets arising from off-balance sheet exposures All financial assets continue to be held on the Group balance sheet, and in a manner consistent with the general provisioning methodology.
a liability recognised for the proceeds of the funding transaction, unless: The aggregate specific and general provisions which are made during i substantially all the risks and rewards associated with the financial the year, less amounts released and recoveries of bad debts previously instruments have been transferred, in which case, the assets are written off, are charged against operating profit and are deducted from derecognised in full: or loans and advances.
Impaired lendings are written off against the ii if a significant portion, but not all, of the risks and rewards have balance sheet asset and provision in part, or in whole, when the extent been transferred, the asset is derecognised entirely if the of the loss incurred has been confirmed.
transferee has the ability to sell the financial asset, otherwise the If the collection of interest is doubtful, it is credited to a suspense asset continues to be recognised only to the extent of the Groups account and excluded from interest income in the income statement.
Although it continues to be charged to the customers accounts, the Where i or ii above applies to a fully proportionate share of all or suspense account in the balance sheet is netted against the relevant specifically identified cash flows, the relevant accounting treatment is loan.
If the collection of interest is considered to be remote, interest applied to that proportion of the asset.
is no longer applied and suspended interest is written off.
Loans on which interest is suspended are not reclassified as accruing interest Transactions undertaken prior to 1st January 2004 that were until interest and principal payments are up to date and future accounted for on the basis of linked presentation under UK GAAP have payments are reasonably assured.
been represented by separate recognition of the gross assets and the related funding in 2004.
Assets acquired in exchange for advances in order to achieve an orderly realisation continue to be reported as advances.
Collateral and netting acquired is recorded at the carrying value of the original advance The Group enters into master agreements with counterparties updated as at the date of the exchange.
Any subsequent impairment whenever possible and, when appropriate, obtains collateral.
is accounted for as a specific provision.
Master agreements provide that, if an event of default occurs, all outstanding transactions with the counterparty will fall due and all 12.
Sale and repurchase agreements including stock borrowing amounts outstanding will be settled on a net basis.
and lending From 1st January 2005 Collateral 3.5 The Group obtains collateral in respect of customer liabilities where Investment and other securities may be lent or sold subject to a this is considered appropriate.
The collateral normally takes the form commitment to repurchase them a repo.
Such securities are retained of a lien over the customers assets and gives the Group a claim on on the balance sheet when substantially all the risks and rewards of these assets for both existing and future liabilities.
ownership remain with the Group, and the counterparty liability is included separately on the balance sheet as appropriate.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 139 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies The Group also receives collateral in the form of cash or securities in The fair value of derivatives is determined by calculating the expected respect of other credit instruments, such as stock borrowing contracts, cash flows under the terms of each specific contract, discounted back and derivative contracts in order to reduce credit risk.
The expected cash flows for each contract are received in the form of securities is not recorded on the balance sheet.
determined either directly by reference to actual cash flows implicit Collateral received in the form of cash is recorded on the balance sheet in observable market prices or through modelling cash flows using with a corresponding liability.
These items are assigned to deposits appropriate financial-markets pricing models.
received from bank or other counterparties.
Any interest payable or The effect of discounting expected cash flows back to present value receivable arising is recorded as interest payable or interest income is achieved by constructing discount curves derived from the market respectively except for funding costs relating to trading activities which price of the most appropriate observable interest rate products such as are recorded in net trading income.
deposits, interest rate futures and swaps.
The calculation of fair value Netting for any financial instrument may also require adjustment of the quoted From 1st January 2005 price or model value to reflect the cost of credit risk where not embedded in underlying models or prices used, or to reflect hedging Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported costs not captured in pricing models to the extent they would be in the balance sheet if, and only if, there is a legally enforceable right to taken into account by a market participant in determining a price.
set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise an asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Embedded derivatives In many cases, even though master netting agreements are in place, From 1st January 2005 the lack of an intention to settle on a net basis results in the related Some hybrid contracts contain both a derivative and a non-derivative assets and liabilities being presented gross in the balance sheet.
In such cases, the derivative component is termed an Prior to 1st January 2005 embedded derivative.
Where the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivatives are not closely related to those of the host Where the amounts owed by both the Group and the counterparty are contract, and the host contract itself is not carried at fair value through determinable and in freely convertible currencies, and where the Group income, the embedded derivative is bifurcated and reported at fair has the ability to insist on net settlement which is assured beyond value with gains and losses being recognised in the income statement.
doubt, and is based on a legal right under the netting agreement that would survive the insolvency of the counterparty, transactions with Profits or losses cannot be recognised on the initial recognition positive carrying values are netted against transactions with negative of embedded derivatives unless the host contract is also carried at carrying values.
Derivatives and hedge accounting From 1st January 2005 Derivatives are used to hedge interest rate, exchange rate, commodity, and equity exposures and exposures to certain indices such as house Where derivatives are held for risk management purposes, and when price indices and retail price indices related to non-trading positions.
transactions meet the criteria specified in IAS 39, the Group applies In addition, the use of derivatives and their sale to customers as risk fair value hedge accounting, cash flow hedge accounting, or hedging management products is an integral part of the Groups trading of a net investment in a foreign operation as appropriate to the risks activities.
Derivatives entered into for hedging purposes and for trading being hedged.
purposes include foreign exchange, interest rate, credit, equity and When a financial instrument is designated as a hedge, the Group commodity derivatives mainly in the form of swaps, forwards, options formally documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and combinations of these instrument types.
and hedged item as well as its risk management objectives and its Derivatives strategy for undertaking the various hedging transactions.
The Group From 1st January 2005 also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an Derivatives are measured initially at fair value and subsequently ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging remeasured to fair value.
Fair values are obtained from quoted prices transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values prevailing in active markets, including recent market transactions, and or cash flows of hedged items.
valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow models and The Group discontinues hedge accounting when: option pricing models as appropriate.
All derivatives are included in assets when their fair value is positive, and liabilities when their fair i it is determined that a derivative is not, or has ceased to be, highly value is negative, unless there is the legal ability and intention to settle effective as a hedge: net as per accounting policy 14. ii the derivative expires, or is sold, terminated, or exercised: Prior to 1st January 2005 iii the hedged item matures or is sold or repaid: or Derivatives entered into as trading transactions, together with any iv a forecast transaction is no longer deemed highly probable.
associated hedging, are measured at fair value and the resultant profits and losses are included in net trading income, along with interest and In certain circumstances, the Group may decide to cease hedge dividends arising from long and short positions and funding costs accounting even though the hedge relationship continues to be relating to trading activities.
Assets and liabilities resulting from gains highly effective by no longer designating the financial instrument or losses on derivative and foreign exchange contracts are reported as a hedging instrument.
gross and reduced by the effects of qualifying netting agreements with counterparties.
Barclays PLC 140 Annual Report 2005 To the extent that the changes in the fair value of the hedging Prior to 1st January 2005 derivative differ from changes in the fair value of the hedged risk in the Derivatives used for hedging purposes are measured on an accruals hedged item: or the cumulative change in the fair value of the hedging basis consistent with the assets, liabilities, positions or future cash derivative differs from the cumulative change in the fair value of flows being hedged.
The gains and losses on these instruments expected future cash flows of the hedged item, the hedge is deemed arising from changes in fair value are not recognised in the income ineffective.
The amount of ineffectiveness, provided it is not so great as statement immediately as they arise.
Such gains are either not to disqualify the entire hedge for hedge accounting, is recorded in the recognised in the balance sheet or are recognised and carried forward.
income statement, in net interest income.
When the hedged transaction occurs, the gain or loss is recognised Fair value hedge accounting in the income statement at the same time as the hedged item.
Changes in fair value of derivatives that qualify and are designated as The criteria required for a derivative instrument to be classified as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with a designated hedge are that: changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are i the transaction must be reasonably expected to match or eliminate attributable to the hedged risk.
a significant proportion of the risk inherent in the assets, liabilities, If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the fair other positions or cash flows being hedged and which results from value hedging adjustment cumulatively made to the carrying value of potential movements in market rates and credit risk: and the hedged item is, for items carried at amortised cost, amortised over ii adequate evidence of the intention to hedge and linkage with the the period to maturity of the previously designated hedge relationship underlying risk inherent in the assets, liabilities, other positions using the effective interest method.
For available for sale items this fair or cash flows being hedged, must be established at the outset of value hedging adjustment remains in equity until the hedged item the transaction.
Designated hedges are reviewed for effectiveness by regular tests If the hedged item is sold or repaid, the unamortised fair value to determine that the hedge is closely negatively correlated to the adjustment is recognised immediately in the income statement.
designated hedged position in each and every identified time band Cash flow hedges in the maturity profile.
For qualifying cash flow hedges, the fair value gain or loss associated Profits and losses on interest rate swaps and options entered into for with the effective portion of the cash flow hedge is recognised initially hedging purposes are measured on an accrual accounting basis, in shareholders equity, and recycled to the income statement in the included in the related category of income and expense and reported periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss.
Any ineffective as part of the yield on the hedged transaction.
Amounts paid or portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in received over the life of futures contracts are deferred until the contract the income statement immediately.
is closed: accumulated deferred amounts on futures contracts and When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no settlement amounts paid or received on forward contracts are longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or accounted for as elements of the carrying value of the associated loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised instrument, affecting the resulting yield.
when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income A premium paid or received in respect of a credit derivative hedging an statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to asset or liability is amortised over the life of the protection purchased occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in equity or sold against either interest payable or interest receivable.
Where a is immediately transferred to the income statement.
credit event occurs which triggers a recovery under the credit Hedges of net investments derivative, then the recovery will be offset against the profit and loss Hedges of net investments in foreign operations, including monetary charge on the underlying asset or liability.
items that are accounted for as part of the net investment, are Foreign exchange contracts which qualify as hedges of foreign accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges: the effective portion of the currency exposures, including positions relating to investments the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity Group makes outside the UK, are retranslated at the closing rate with and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income any forward premium or discount recognised over the life of the statement.
The cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity contract in net interest income.
is recognised in the income statement on the disposal or partial disposal of the foreign operation.
Profits and losses related to qualifying hedges, including foreign exchange contracts, of firm commitments and probable anticipated Hedges of net investments may include non-derivative liabilities as well transactions are deferred and recognised in income or as adjustments as derivative financial instruments although for a non-derivative liability to carrying amounts when the hedged transactions occur.
only the foreign exchange risk is designated as a hedge.
Hedging transactions that are superseded or cease to be effective Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are measured at fair value.
Any profit or loss on these transactions, Derivative contracts entered into as economic hedges that do not together with any profit or loss arising on hedging transactions that qualify for hedge accounting are held at fair value through profit are terminated prior to the end of the life of the asset, are deferred and or loss.
3.5 amortised into interest income or expense over the remaining life of Hedge accounting is not generally applied to credit derivatives that the item previously being hedged.
When the underlying asset, liability are purchased to reduce credit risk for large portfolios of loans position or cash flow is terminated prior to the hedging transaction, and receivables.
or an anticipated transaction is no longer likely to occur, the hedging transaction is measured on the fair value accounting basis, as Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 141 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies described in the section on derivatives used for trading purposes Goodwill is capitalised and reviewed annually for impairment, or more below, prior to being transferred to the trading portfolio.
The profit frequently when there are indications that impairment may have or loss arising from the fair value measurement prior to the transfer occurred.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the to the trading portfolio is included in the category of income or purpose of impairment testing.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates expense relating to the previously hedged transaction.
and joint ventures is included in the amount of the investment.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of 16.
Property, plant and equipment the goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Property and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and provisions for impairment, if any.
Additions and subsequent Computer software expenditures are capitalised only to the extent that they enhance Computer software is stated at cost, less amortisation and provisions the future economic benefits expected to be derived from the assets.
The identifiable and directly associated external and internal costs of Depreciation is provided on the depreciable amount of items of acquiring and developing software are capitalised where the software property and equipment on a straight-line basis over their estimated is controlled by the Group, and where it is probable that future useful lives.
The depreciable amount is the gross carrying amount, less economic benefits that exceed its cost will flow from its use over the estimated residual value at the end of its economic life.
Costs associated with maintaining software are The Group uses the following annual rates in calculating depreciation: recognised as an expense when incurred.
Freehold buildings and long-leasehold property Capitalised computer software is amortised over three to five years.
more than 50 years to run 2-3.3% Other intangible assets Leasehold property Over the remaining Other intangible assets consist of brands, customer lists, licences and less than 50 years to run life of the lease other contracts, core deposit intangibles and customer relationships.
Costs of adaptation of freehold and Other intangible assets are initially recognised when they are separable a leasehold property 7-10% or arise from contractual or other legal rights, the cost can be Equipment installed in freehold and a measured reliably and, in the case of intangible assets not acquired leasehold property 7-10% in a business combination, where it is probable that future economic Computers and similar equipment 20-33% benefits attributable to the assets will flow from their use.
The value Fixtures and fittings and other equipment 10-20% of intangible assets which are acquired in a business combination is Note a Where leasehold property has a remaining useful life of less than ten or generally determined using income approach methodologies such as 15 years, costs of adaptation and installed equipment are depreciated over the discounted cash flow method and the relief from royalty method the remaining life of the lease.
that estimate net cash flows attributable to an asset over its economic life and discount to present value using an appropriate rate of return Depreciation rates, methods and the residual values underlying the based on the cost of equity adjusted for risk.
calculation of depreciation of items of property, plant and equipment are kept under review to take account of any change in circumstances.
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less amortisation and provisions for impairment, if any, and are amortised over their useful When deciding on depreciation rates and methods, the principal lives in a manner that reflects the pattern to which they contribute to factors the Group takes into account are the expected rate of future cash flows, generally over 4-25 years.
technological developments and expected market requirements for, and the expected pattern of usage of, the assets.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets residual values, the Group estimates the amount that it would currently At each balance sheet date, or more frequently where events or obtain for the disposal of the asset after deducting the estimated cost changes in circumstances dictate, property, plant and equipment of disposal if the asset were already of the age and condition expected and intangible assets, are assessed for indications of impairment.
at the end of its useful life.
If indications are present, these assets are subject to an impairment review.
Goodwill is subject to an impairment review as at the balance No depreciation is provided on freehold land, although, in common sheet date each year.
The impairment review comprises a comparison with all long-lived assets, it is subject to impairment testing, if deemed of the carrying amount of the asset with its recoverable amount: the appropriate.
higher of the assets or the cash-generating units net selling price 17.
Intangible assets and its value in use.
Net selling price is calculated by reference to the Goodwill amount at which the asset could be disposed of in a binding sale Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiary and associated entities agreement in an arms-length transaction evidenced by an active and joint ventures, and represents the excess of the fair value of the market or recent transactions for similar assets.
Value in use is purchase consideration and direct costs of making the acquisition, calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows obtainable as over the fair value of the Groups share of the assets acquired, and the a result of the assets continued use, including those resulting from its liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed on the date of the acquisition.
ultimate disposal, at a market-based discount rate on a pre-tax basis.
For the purpose of calculating goodwill, fair values of acquired assets, The carrying values of fixed assets and goodwill are written down liabilities and contingent liabilities are determined by reference to by the amount of any impairment and this loss is recognised in the market values or by discounting expected future cash flows to present income statement in the period in which it occurs.
This discounting is either performed using market rates or by recognised impairment loss relating to a fixed asset may be reversed using risk-free rates and risk-adjusted expected future cash flows.
in part or in full when a change in circumstances leads to a change in the estimates used to determine the fixed assets recoverable amount.
Barclays PLC 142 Annual Report 2005 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies The carrying amount of the fixed asset will only be increased up to the Equity instruments, including share capital, are initially recognised at amount that it would have been had the original impairment not been net proceeds, after deducting transaction costs and any related income recognised.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Dividend and other payments to equity holders are deducted from purpose of conducting impairment reviews, cash-generating units are equity, net of any related tax.
the lowest level at which management monitors the return on Prior to 1st January 2005 investment on assets.
Debt securities in issue and similar securities are stated at the net issue 19.
Financial guarantees proceeds adjusted for amortisation of premiums, discounts and Financial guarantee contracts are contracts that require the issuer to expenses related to their issue where the liability is a fixed amount.
make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs Where the liability fluctuates, based on, for example, the performance of because a specified debtor fails to make payments when due, in an index, then the debt security reflects the current value of the liability.
accordance with the terms of a debt instrument.
Loan capital in issue is stated at the net issue proceeds adjusted for Such financial guarantees are given to banks, financial institutions and amortisation of premiums, discounts and expenses related to their other bodies on behalf of customers to secure loans, overdrafts and issue.
Amortisation is calculated in order to achieve a constant yield other banking facilities facility guarantees, and to other parties in across the life of the instrument.
connection with the performance of customers under obligations related to contracts, advance payments made by other parties, tenders, 21.
Share capital Share issue costs retentions and the payment of import duties.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or Financial guarantees are initially recognised in the financial statements options or the acquisition of a business are shown in equity as a at fair value on the date that the guarantee was given.
Other than where deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
the fair value option is applied, subsequent to initial recognition, the Dividends on ordinary shares banks liabilities under such guarantees are measured at the higher of Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in equity in the period the initial measurement, less amortisation calculated to recognise in the in which they are paid or, if earlier, approved by the Barclays PLC income statement the fee income earned over the period, and the best shareholders.
estimate of the expenditure required to settle any financial obligation arising as a result of the guarantees at the balance sheet date.
Treasury shares Where the Company or any member of the Group purchases the Any increase in the liability relating to guarantees is taken to the Companys share capital, the consideration paid is deducted from income statement in Provisions for undrawn contractually committed shareholders equity as treasury shares until they are cancelled.
Any liability remaining is recognised Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any in the income statement when the guarantee is discharged, cancelled consideration received is included in shareholders equity.
Insurance contracts and investment contracts This is in accordance with the amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 4, The Group offers wealth management, term assurance, annuity, Financial Guarantee Contracts.
This policy has been applied from property and payment protection insurance products to customers 1st January 2004 and has had an immaterial impact on the 2004 that take the form of longand short-term insurance contracts.
income statement and earnings per share, and has reduced retained earnings by 34m as at 1st January 2004.
Issued debt and equity securities The Group has applied IFRS 4, Insurance contracts to insurance From 1st January 2005 contracts and contracts with a discretionary participation feature from 1st January 2005.
The Group classifies its wealth management and Issued financial instruments or their components are classified as other products as insurance contracts where these transfer significant liabilities where the contractual arrangement results in the Group insurance risk, generally where the benefits payable on the occurrence having a present obligation to either deliver cash or another financial of an insured event are at least 5% more than the benefits that would asset to the holder, to exchange financial instruments on terms that be payable if the insured event does not occur.
are potentially unfavourable, or to satisfy the obligation otherwise than by the exchange of a fixed amount of cash or another financial asset Wealth management contracts that do not contain significant for a fixed number of equity shares.
Issued financial instruments, or insurance risk or discretionary participation features are classified their components, are classified as equity where they meet the as investment contracts.
Financial assets and liabilities relating to definition of equity and confer on the holder a residual interest in the investment contracts, and assets backing insurance contracts are assets of the company.
Financial instruments issued which contain classified and measured as appropriate under IAS 39, Financial both liability and equity elements are accounted for separately with the Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
equity component being assigned the residual amount, after deducting Long-term insurance contracts from the instrument as a whole the amount separately determined as These contracts, insure events associated with human life for the fair value of the liability component.
example, death or survival over a long duration.
Premiums are Financial liabilities, other than trading liabilities and financial liabilities 3.5 recognised as revenue when they become payable by the contract designated at fair value, are carried at amortised cost using the holder.
Claims and surrenders are accounted for when notified.
effective interest method as set out in policy 9.
Derivatives embedded Maturities on the policy maturity date and regular withdrawals are in financial liabilities that are not designated at fair value are accounted accounted for when due.
for as set out in accounting policy 15.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 143 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies A liability for contractual benefits that are expected to be incurred in is objective evidence of impairment, the carrying amount of the the future is recorded when the premiums are recognised, based on reinsurance asset is reduced accordingly, resulting in a charge to the the expected discounted value of the benefit payments and directly income statement.
related administration costs, less the expected discounted value of Prior to 1st January 2005 the future premiums that would be required to meet the benefits and other expenses.
The calculation of the liability contains assumptions Prior to 1st January 2005, the Group treated all products taking the regarding mortality, maintenance expenses and investment income.
legal form of an insurance contract as insurance contracts.
Liabilities under unit-linked life insurance contracts such as From 1st January 2004 the Group has chosen to change its accounting endowment policies in addition reflect the value of assets held within policy in relation to insurance contracts to use Modified Statutory unitised investment pools.
Solvency Basis rather than an Embedded Value Basis to account for insurance policies in the UK.
This change resulted in insurance Short-term insurance contracts contracts and investment contracts being accounted for on a similar Under its payment protection insurance products the Group is basis and represents the most appropriate accounting policy in the committed to paying benefits to the policyholder rather than forgiving circumstances.
This change in policy reduced other operating income interest or principal on the occurrence of an insured event, such as by 47m in 2004 and reduced retained earnings by 592m as at unemployment, sickness, or injury.
Property insurance contracts mainly 1st January 2004.
The impact on earnings per share was immaterial.
compensate the policyholders for damage to their property, or for the value of property lost.
Leases Lessor Premiums are recognised as revenue proportionally over the period of Assets leased to customers under agreements, which transfer the coverage.
Claims and claims handling costs are charged to income substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, with or without as incurred, based on the estimated liability for compensation owed to ultimate legal title, are classified as finance leases.
When assets are policyholders arising from events that have occurred up to the balance held subject to a finance lease, the present value of the lease sheet date, even if they have not yet been reported to the Group, payments, discounted at the rate of interest implicit in the lease, is based on assessments of individual cases reported to the Group and recognised as a receivable.
The difference between the total payments statistical analyses for the claims incurred not reported.
receivable under the lease and the present value of the receivable Deferred acquisition costs DAC is recognised as unearned finance income, which is allocated to Commissions and other costs that are related to securing new accounting periods under the pre-tax net investment method to insurance and investment contracts are capitalised and amortised over reflect a constant periodic rate of return.
the estimated lives of the relevant contracts.
Assets leased to customers under agreements which do not transfer Deferred income liability substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as Fees that are designed to recover commissions and other costs related operating leases.
The leased assets are included within property, plant to either securing new insurance and investment contracts or renewing and equipment on the Groups balance sheet and depreciation is existing investment contracts are included as a liability and amortised provided on the depreciable amount of these assets on a systematic over the estimated life of the contract.
basis over their estimated useful lives.
Lease income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease unless another Value of business acquired systematic basis is more appropriate.
On acquisition of a portfolio of contracts, such as through the acquisition of a subsidiary, the Group recognises an intangible asset Lessee representing the value of business acquired VOBA, representing the Operating lease rentals payable are recognised as an expense in the future profits embedded in acquired insurance contracts and income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term unless investment contracts with a discretionary participation feature.
The another systematic basis is more appropriate.
asset is amortised over the remaining terms of the acquired contracts.
Employee benefits Liability adequacy test The Group provides employees worldwide with post-retirement Liability adequacy tests are performed at each balance sheet date to benefits mainly in the form of pensions.
The Group operates a number ensure the adequacy of contract liabilities net of DAC and VOBA assets.
of pension schemes which may be funded or unfunded and of a Current best estimates of future contractual cash flows, claims defined contribution or defined benefit nature.
In addition, the Group handling and administration costs, and investment returns from the contributes, according to local law in the various countries in which it assets backing the liabilities are taken into account in the tests.
Where operates, to governmental and other plans which have the a deficiency is highlighted by the test, DAC and VOBA assets are characteristics of defined contribution plans.
written off first, and insurance liabilities increased when these are For defined benefit schemes, actuarial valuation of each of the written off in full.
Any deficiency is immediately recognised in the schemes obligations, using the projected unit credit method and the income statement.
fair valuation of each of the schemes assets, are performed annually, Reinsurance using the assumptions set out in Note 38.
The difference between the Shortand long-term insurance business is ceded to reinsurers under fair value of the plan assets and the present value of the defined contracts to transfer part or all of one or more of the following risks: benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, adjusted for any historic mortality, investment and expenses.
All such contracts are dealt with as unrecognised actuarial gains or losses and past service cost, is insurance contracts.
The benefits to which the Group is entitled under recognised as a liability in the balance sheet.
An asset, arising for its reinsurance contracts are recognised as reinsurance assets.
The example as a result of past overfunding or the performance of the Group assesses reinsurance assets at each balance sheet date.
If there plan investments, is recognised to the extent that it does not exceed Barclays PLC 144 Annual Report 2005 the present value of future contribution holidays or refunds of the Group has a detailed formal plan for restructuring a business and contributions.
has raised valid expectations in those affected by the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features.
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses in excess of the greater of 10% The provision raised is normally utilised within nine months.
of the assets or 10% of the obligations of the plan are recognised in the income statement over the remaining average service lives of the Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be employees of the related plan, on a straight-line basis.
confirmed only by uncertain future events or present obligations where the transfer of economic benefit is uncertain or cannot be reliably For defined contribution schemes, the Group recognises contributions measured.
Contingent liabilities are not recognised but are disclosed due in respect of the accounting period in the income statement.
Any contributions unpaid at the balance sheet date are included as a liability.
Taxes, including deferred taxes Income tax payable on taxable profits current tax, is recognised as The Group also provides health care benefits to certain retired an expense in the period in which the profits arise.
Income tax employees, which are accrued as a liability in the financial statements recoverable on tax allowable losses is recognised as an asset only to over the period of employment, using a methodology similar to that the extent that it is regarded as recoverable by offset against current or for defined benefit pensions plans.
Short-term employee benefits, such as salaries, paid absences, and Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary other benefits, are accounted for on an accruals basis over the period timing differences arising from the differences between the tax bases which employees have provided services in the year.
Bonuses are of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated recognised to the extent that the Group has a present obligation to its financial statements.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and employees that can be measured reliably.
legislation enacted, or substantially enacted, by the balance sheet date All expenses related to employee benefits are recognised in the income and is expected to apply when the deferred tax asset is realised or the statement in staff costs, which is included within operating expenses.
deferred tax liability is settled.
Share-based payments to employees Deferred and current tax assets and liabilities are only offset when they The Group engages in equity settled share-based payment transactions arise in the same tax reporting group and where there is both the legal in respect of services received from certain of its employees.
The fair right and the intention to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset value of the services received is measured by reference to the fair and settle the liability simultaneously.
value of the shares or share options granted on the date of the grant.
Segment Reporting The cost of the employee services received in respect of the shares or Business segments are distinguishable components of the Group that share options granted is recognised in the income statement over the provide products or services that are subject to risks and rewards that period that the services are received, which is the vesting period.
are different to those of other business segments.
Geographical The fair value of the options granted is determined using option pricing segments provide products or services within a particular economic models, which take into account the exercise price of the option, the environment that is subject to risks and rewards that are different to current share price, the risk free interest rate, the expected volatility of those of components operating in other economic environments.
the share price over the life of the option and other relevant factors.
Business segments are the primary reporting segments.
Group costs Except for those which include terms related to market conditions, are allocated to segments on a reasonable and consistent basis.
vesting conditions included in the terms of the grant are not taken into Transactions between segments are generally accounted for in account in estimating fair value.
Non-market vesting conditions are accordance with Group policies as if the segment were a stand-alone taken into account by adjusting the number of shares or share options business with intra-segment revenue and costs being eliminated in included in the measurement of the cost of employee services so that, Head office.
ultimately, the amount recognised in the income statement reflects the number of vested shares or share options.
Where vesting conditions are The analyses by geographical segment are based on the location of related to market conditions, the charges for the services received are the customer.
recognised regardless of whether or not the market-related vesting 29.
Cash and cash equivalents condition is met, provided that the non-market vesting conditions For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash comprises cash on are met.
hand and demand deposits, and cash equivalents comprise highly 26.
Provisions liquid investments that are convertible into cash with an insignificant Provisions are recognised for present obligations arising as risk of changes in value with original maturities of less than three consequences of past events where it is more likely than not that a months.
Trading balances, repurchase agreements and reverse transfer of economic benefit will be necessary to settle the obligation, repurchase agreements are not considered to be part of cash equivalents.
and it can be reliably estimated.
Trust activities When a leasehold property ceases to be used in the business provision The Group commonly acts as trustees and in other fiduciary capacities is made, where the unavoidable costs of the future obligations relating that result in the holding or placing of assets on behalf of individuals, to the lease are expected to exceed anticipated rental income.
The net trusts, retirement benefit plans and other institutions.
The assets and 3.5 costs are discounted using market rates of interest to reflect the longincome arising thereon are excluded from these financial statements, term nature of the cash flows.
as they are not assets of the Group.
Provision is made for the anticipated cost of restructuring, including redundancy costs when an obligation exists.
An obligation exists when Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 145
