Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2005 14 Financial assets designated at fair value Held on own account 2005 m Loans and advances designated at fair value 8,600 Other financial assets designated at fair value 4,304 Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account 12,904 Credit risk on loans and advances designated at fair value The maximum exposure to credit risk on loans and advances designated at fair value at 31st December 2005 was 8,600m 2004: n a.
The amount by which related credit derivatives and similar instruments mitigate the exposure to credit risk at 31st December 2005 was 2,505m 2004: n a.
The net gain attributable to changes in credit risk for loans and advances designated at fair value was 3m in 2005 2004: n a.
The gains or losses on related credit derivatives was nil for the year 2004: n a.
The cumulative net gain attributable to changes in credit risk for loans and advances designated at fair value since initial recognition is 3m at 31st December 2005 2004: n a.
The cumulative change in fair value of related credit derivatives at 31st December 2005 is nil 2004: n a. Securitisations of loans and advances designated at fair value During the year, Barclays acquired and then securitised static pools of residential mortgage loans which were originated by unaffiliated mortgage companies.
The securitisations were effected through the sale of mortgage loans to trusts, which issue notes to fund the acquisition of these loans.
The notes were underwritten by Barclays and sold to third-party investors.
The offering circulars for the issues of the notes stated that they were the obligations of the respective trust only and are not guaranteed by, or the responsibility of, any other party.
Loans and advances designated at fair value include balances that have been securitised, and continue to be partially recognised to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement in the original asset.
These retained interests are in the form of interest only strips and represent a continuing exposure to the prepayment and credit risk of the underlying securitised assets.
The total amount of loans designated at fair value which have been securitised and derecognised on a continuing involvement basis is 6,291m 2004: n a.
The total amount of the continuing involvement asset which has been designated at fair value that we continue to partially recognise is 175m 2004: n a.
Held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts liabilities arising from investment contracts 2005 m Financial assets designated at fair value held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 83,193 Cash and bank balances within the funds 2,008 Assets held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 85,201 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 85,201 A portion of the Groups fund management business takes the legal form of insurance policies, under which legal title to the underlying investment is held by the Group, but the inherent risks rewards in the investments are borne by the customer.
In the normal course of business, the Groups financial interest in such investments is restricted to fees for investment management services.
Due to the nature of these contracts, the carrying value of the assets is always the same as the value of the liabilities and any change in the value of the assets results in an equal but opposite change in the value of the amounts due to the policyholders.
In the balance sheet, the assets are included as Financial assets designated at fair value held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts.
Cash balances within the portfolio have been included in the Groups cash balances.
The associated obligation to deliver the value of the investments to customers at their fair value on balance sheet date is included as Liabilities to customers under investment contracts.
The increase decrease in the value arising from the return on the investments and the corresponding increase decrease in linked liabilities to customers is included in the Other income note in Note 6.
