Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies followed UK accounting standards issued by the UK Accounting Significant Accounting Policies Standards Board and the pronouncements of its Urgent Issues Task 1.
Reporting entity Force, Statements of Recommended Practice issued by the British These financial statements are prepared for the Barclays PLC Group Bankers Association and by the Finance and Leasing Association, and Barclays or the Group under Section 227 2 of the Companies Act the accounting requirements of the Companies Act 1985 collectively, 1985.
The Group is an international financial services group engaged in UK GAAP.
The Group has used the provisions of IFRS 1 in arriving the provision of a wide range of financial services, including banking, at appropriate opening balances for the purposes of these financial investment banking, venture capital and asset management.
In statements, as follows: addition, individual financial statements have been prepared for the Goodwill holding company, Barclays PLC the Company, under Section The Group has not applied IFRS 3, Business Combinations 226 2 b of the Companies Act 1985. retrospectively to business combinations prior to the date of transition.
Barclays PLC is a public limited company, incorporated in England and The carrying amount of goodwill in the UK GAAP balance sheet as at Wales and having a registered office in England and Wales.
31st December 2003 has accordingly been brought forward without adjustment.
Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards The consolidated financial statements of the Barclays PLC Group and Property, plant and equipment the individual financial statements of Barclays PLC, have been prepared The Group has adopted the carrying values under UK GAAP of all items in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS of property, plant and equipment at the date of transition as their and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting deemed cost rather than either reverting to historical cost or carrying Interpretations Committee IFRIC as adopted by the European Union.
out a valuation as permitted by IFRS 1.
In all material respects, this is also in accordance with full IFRS.
Cumulative foreign currency difference The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the The Group has brought forward a nil opening balance on the consolidated and separate financial statements are set out below.
cumulative foreign currency translation adjustment arising from the These policies have been consistently applied, except for the first-time retranslation of foreign operations, which is shown as a separate item application of IFRS relating to financial instruments and insurance in shareholders equity at the date of transition in accordance with IAS contracts for which the 2004 comparatives have been prepared in 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
accordance with UK generally accepted accounting principles UK Employee benefits GAAP as permitted by IFRS 1 and as is described in more detail in For defined benefit pension schemes and other post-retirement the relevant accounting polices.
benefits, the Group has recognised all cumulative actuarial gains and In addition, the disclosure provisions of amendment to IAS 19 losses at the date of transition.
Employee Benefits Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group Plans and Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Disclosures have been adopted from 1st January 2004.
The other The Group has elected not to re-recognise financial assets and provisions of the amendment have not changed any accounting liabilities derecognised before 1st January 2004. policies applied to Barclays PLC Group or Barclays PLC individual statements.
Share-based payment The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 to grants of 3.
Basis of preparation shares and share options whether they were granted before or after The consolidated and individual financial statements have been 7th November 2002. prepared under the historical cost convention as modified to include 5.
First-time application of IFRS relating to Financial Instruments the fair valuation of certain financial instruments and contracts to buy and Insurance Contracts or sell non-financial items and trading inventories to the extent In addition to the options described above, IFRS 1 also includes specific required or permitted under accounting standards and as set out in the transitional provisions for International Accounting Standard 32, relevant accounting polices.
They are stated in millions of pounds Financial Instruments, Disclosure and Presentation, International Sterling, m, the currency of the country in which Barclays PLC Accounting Standard 39, Financial Instruments Recognition and is incorporated.
Measurement and International Financial Reporting Standard 4, Critical accounting estimates Insurance Contracts.
The Group has decided to adopt these provisions The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS and therefore has not applied these standards to the 2004 comparatives.
requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires The impact of these standards is reflected through further adjustments management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the to shareholders equity as at 1st January 2005.
In the 2004 comparatives, accounting policies.
The notes to the financial statements set out areas financial instruments and insurance contracts are included using the involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where measurement bases and the disclosure requirements of UK GAAP assumptions are significant to the consolidated and individual financial relating to financial instruments and insurance contracts.
statements such as fair value of financial instruments Note 57, loan loss impairment Note 18, goodwill Note 27, intangible assets 6.
Effect of the transition to IFRS Note 28 and retirement benefit obligations Note 38.
A description of the differences between UK GAAP and IFRS accounting policies is set out in Note 62 to the accounts.
First-time application of IFRS Reconciliations of balance sheets prepared under UK GAAP and IFRS at The Group has applied IFRS in its financial reporting with effect from 1st January 2004 and 31st December 2004 are included in Note 62 to 1st January 2004, the date of transition, in accordance with the the accounts.
Reconciliations of the profit and loss account prepared in transitional provisions set out in IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of accordance with UK GAAP and prepared in accordance with IFRS for International Financial Reporting Standards.
Previously, the Group Barclays PLC 134 Annual Report 2005
