Shareholder information Dividends on the ordinary shares of Barclays PLC Barclays PLC has paid dividends on its ordinary shares every year without interruption since its incorporation in 1896.
The dividends declared for each of the last five years were: Pence per 25p ordinary share 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Interim 9.20 8.25 7.05 6.35 5.75 Final 17.40 15.75 13.45 12.00 10.88 Total 26.60 24.00 20.50 18.35 16.63 US Dollars per 25p ordinary share 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Interim 0.16 0.15 0.12 0.10 0.08 Final 0.31 0.30 0.24 0.19 0.16 Total 0.47 0.45 0.36 0.29 0.24 The gross dividends applicable to an American Depositary Share ADS representing four ordinary shares, before deduction of withholding tax, are as follows: US Dollars per American Depositary Share 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Interim 0.65 0.60 0.48 0.40 0.34 Final 1.22 1.20 0.95 0.76 0.64 Total 1.87 1.80 1.43 1.16 0.98 Dividends expressed in Dollars are translated at the Noon Buying Rates in New York City for cable transfers in Pounds Sterling as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York the Noon Buying Rate for the days on which dividends are paid, except for the 2005 final dividend, payable in the UK on 28th April 2006, which is translated at Noon Buying Rate applicable on 28th February 2006.
No representation is made that Pounds Sterling amounts have been, or could have been, or could be, converted into Dollars at these rates.
Trading market for ordinary shares of Barclays PLC The nominal capital of Barclays PLC is divided into 9,996,000,000 ordinary shares of 25p each ordinary shares and 1,000,000 staff shares of 1 each staff shares.
At the close of business on 31st December 2005, 6,489,514,368 25p ordinary shares and 875,000 staff shares were outstanding.
The principal trading market for Barclays PLC ordinary shares is the London Stock Exchange.
Ordinary share listings were also obtained on the Tokyo Stock Exchange with effect from 1st August 1986 and the New York Stock Exchange NYSE with effect from 9th September 1986.
Trading on the NYSE is in the form of ADSs under the symbol BCS.
Each ADS represents four 25p ordinary shares and is evidenced by an American Depositary Receipt ADR.
The ADR depositary is The Bank of New York.
Details of trading activity are published in the stock tables of leading daily newspapers in the US.
There were 283 ADR holders and 1,305 recorded holders of ordinary shares with US addresses at 31st December 2005, whose shareholdings represented approximately 2.55% of total outstanding ordinary shares on that date.
Since certain of the ordinary shares and ADRs were held by brokers or other nominees, the number of recorded holders in the US may not be representative of the number of beneficial holders or of their country of residence.
3.6 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 305 Shareholder information The following table shows the high and low sales price for the ordinary shares of 25p during the periods indicated, based on mid-market prices at close of business on the London Stock Exchange and the high and low sale price for ADSs as reported on the NYSE composite tape.
It is emphasised that past performance cannot be relied upon as a guide to future performance.
Barclays PLC 306 Annual Report 2005 Memorandum and Articles of Association At each AGM one-third of the Directors for the time being rounded The Company was incorporated in England and Wales on 20th July down if necessary are required to retire from office.
1896 under the Companies Acts 1862 to 1890 as a company limited by Classes of share shares and was reregistered in 1982 as a public limited company under The Company has two classes of shares, ordinary shares and staff the Companies Acts 1948 to 1980.
The Company is registered under shares, to which the provisions set out below apply.
The Company was re-registered as Barclays PLC on 1st January 1985. a Dividends Under English law, dividends are payable on the Companys ordinary The objects of the Company are set out in full in clause 4 of its shares only out of profits available for distribution, as determined in Memorandum of Association which provides, among other things, that accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the UK and the Companys objects are to carry on business as an investment and by the Companies Act 1985.
The Company in general meeting may holding company in all its aspects.
declare dividends by ordinary resolution, but such dividend may not Directors exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
The Directors may A Director may not vote or count towards the quorum on any resolution pay interim or final dividends if it appears they are justified by the concerning any proposal in which he or any person connected with Companys financial position.
him has a material interest other than by virtue of his interest in The profits which are resolved to be distributed in respect of any securities of the Company or if he has a duty which conflicts or may financial period are applied first in payment of a fixed dividend of conflict with the interests of the Company, unless the resolution relates 20% per annum on the staff shares and then in payment of dividends to any proposal: on the ordinary shares.
i to indemnify a Director in respect of any obligation incurred for If a dividend is not claimed after 12 years of it becoming payable, the benefit of the Company or any other member of the Group : it is forfeited and reverts to the Company.
ii to indemnify a third party in respect of any obligation for which the The Directors may, with the approval of an ordinary resolution of the Director has personally assumed responsibility: Company, offer shareholders the right to choose to receive an allotment iii to indemnify a Director for any liability which he may incur in the of new ordinary shares credited as fully paid instead of cash in respect performance of his duties or to obtain insurance against such a liability: of all or part of any dividend.
iv involving the acquisition by a Director of any securities of the b Voting Company pursuant to an offer to existing holders of securities or Every member who is present in person or represented at any general to the public: meeting of the Company and who is entitled to vote has one vote on a show of hands.
On a poll, every member who is present or represented v that the Director underwrite any issue of securities of the Company has one vote for every share held.
or any of its subsidiaries : If any sum remains unpaid in relation to a members shareholding, that vi concerning any other company in which the Director is interested member is not entitled to vote that share unless the Board otherwise as an officer or creditor or shareholder, but only if he owns less than determines.
1% of either the issued equity share capital or of the voting rights of that company: If any member, or any other person appearing to be interested in any shares in the Company, is served with a notice under Section 212 of vii concerning any superannuation fund or retirement, death or the Companies Act 1985 and does not supply the Company with the disability benefits scheme or employees share scheme, so long as information required in the notice, then the Board, in its absolute any such fund or scheme does not give additional advantages to the discretion, may direct that that member shall not be entitled to attend Directors which are not granted to the employees who are in the fund or vote at any meeting of the Company.
or scheme: and c Liquidation viii concerning any other arrangement for the benefit of employees of In the event of any return of capital on liquidation the ordinary shares the Company or any other member of the Group under which the and the staff shares rank equally in proportion to the amounts paid up Director benefits in a similar manner to the employees concerned and or credited as paid up on the shares of each class, except that in the which does not give the Director any advantage which the employees to event of a winding up of the Company the holders of the staff shares whom the arrangement relates would not receive.
are only entitled to participate in the surplus assets available for distribution up to the amount paid up on the staff shares plus 10%.
A Director may not vote or be counted in the quorum on any resolution which concerns his own employment with the Company or any other d Redemption provisions company in which the Company is interested.
Subject to the Companies Act 1985, any share may be issued on terms that it is, at the option of the Company or the holder of such share, The Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money.
The Company has no redeemable shares in issue.
A Director must retire from office at the conclusion of the first Annual e Calls on capital The Directors may make calls upon the members in respect of any General Meeting AGM after he reaches the age of 70.
He is however, eligible to stand for re-election at that meeting.
monies unpaid on their shares.
A person upon whom a call is made remains liable even if the shares in respect of which the call is made A Director is required to hold an interest in ordinary shares having a have been transferred.
nominal value of at least 500.
A Director may act before acquiring those shares but must acquire the qualification shares within two f Variation of rights The rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the months from his or her appointment.
3.6 sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 307 Shareholder information Annual and extraordinary general meetings For purposes of the Treaty, the Estate and Gift Tax Convention and for The Company is required to hold a general meeting each year as its the purposes of the Code, the holders of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be AGM in addition to other meetings called extraordinary general treated as owners of the underlying ordinary shares or preference meetings as the Directors think fit.
The type of the meeting will be shares, as the case may be.
Generally, exchanges of shares for ADRs, specified in the notice calling it.
Not more than 15 months may elapse and ADRs for shares, will not be subject to US federal income tax or between the date of one AGM and the next.
to UK tax, other than stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax, as described below.
In the case of an AGM or a meeting for the passing of a special resolution requiring the consent of a 75% majority 21 clear days Taxation of UK holders notice is required.
In other cases 14 clear days notice is required.
Taxation of dividends The notice must specify the place, the day and the hour of the meeting, In accordance with UK law, Barclays PLC and the Bank pay dividends and the general nature of the business to be transacted.
on ordinary shares and preference shares without any deduction or withholding tax in respect of any taxes imposed by the UK government Subject as noted in b above, all shareholders are entitled to attend or any UK taxing authority.
and vote at general meetings.
The articles of association do, however, provide that arrangements may be made for simultaneous attendance If the shareholder is a UK resident individual liable to income tax only at at a general meeting at a place other than that specified in the notice of the basic rate or the lower rate, then there will be no further tax liability meeting, in which case some shareholders may be excluded from the in respect of the dividend received.
If, however, the individual specified place.
shareholder is subject to income tax at the higher rate currently 40%, there will be a further liability to tax.
Higher rate taxpayers are taxable Limitations on foreign shareholders on dividend income at a special rate of currently 32.5% against which There are no limitations imposed by English law or the Companys can be offset a tax credit of one-ninth of the dividend paid.
Tax credits Memorandum or Articles of Association on the right of non-residents or are no longer repayable to shareholders with no tax liability.
foreign persons to hold or vote the Companys ordinary shares other than the limitations that would generally apply to all of the Companys Taxation of shares under the Dividend reinvestment plan shareholders.
Where a shareholder elects to purchase shares using their cash dividend, the individual will be liable for income tax on dividends Taxation reinvested in the Plan on the same basis as if they had received the The following is a summary of the principal tax consequences for cash and arranged the investment themselves.
They should accordingly holders of ordinary shares of Barclays PLC, preference shares of the include the dividend received in their annual tax return in the normal Bank, or ADSs representing such ordinary shares or preference shares, way.
The tax consequences for a UK individual are the same as and who are citizens or residents of the UK or US, or otherwise who are described in Taxation of dividends above.
subject to UK tax or US federal income tax on a net income basis in respect of such securities, that own the shares or ADSs as capital assets Taxation of capital gains for tax purposes.
It is not, however, a comprehensive analysis of all the Where shares are disposed of by open market sale, a capital gain may potential tax consequences for such holders, and it does not discuss the result if the disposal proceeds exceed the sum of the base cost of the tax consequences of members of special classes of holders subject to shares sold and any other allowable deductions such as share dealing special rules or holders that, directly or indirectly, hold 10% or more of costs, indexation relief up to 5th April 1998 and taper relief generally Barclays voting stock.
Investors are advised to consult their tax advisers on shares held at 16th March 1998 and subsequent acquisitions.
To regarding the tax implications of their particular holdings, including the arrive at the total base cost of any Barclays PLC shares held, the amount consequences under applicable state and local law, and in particular subscribed for rights taken up in 1985 and 1988 must be added to the whether they are eligible for the benefits of the Treaty, as defined below.
cost of all other shares held.
For this purpose, current legislation permits the market valuation at 31st March 1982 to be substituted for the A US holder is a beneficial owner of shares or ADSs that is for US federal original cost of shares purchased before that date.
income tax purposes i a citizen or resident of the US, ii a US domestic corporation, iii an estate whose income is subject to US The calculations required to compute chargeable capital gains, federal income tax regardless of its source, or iv a trust if a US court particularly taper and indexation reliefs, may be complex.
Capital gains can exercise primary supervision over the trusts administration and one may also arise from the gifting of shares to connected parties such as or more US persons are authorised to control all substantial decisions of relatives although not spouses and family trusts.
advised to consult their personal financial adviser if further information regarding a possible tax liability in respect of their holdings of Barclays Unless otherwise noted, the statements of tax laws set out below are PLC shares is required.
based on the tax laws of the UK in force as at 28th February 2006 and are subject to any subsequent changes in UK law, in particular any Stamp duty announcements made in the Chancellors UK Budget in March 2006.
On the purchase of shares, stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax at the This section is also based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as rate of 0.5% is normally payable on the purchase price of the shares.
amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations, Inheritance tax published rulings and court decisions the Code, and on the Double An individual may be liable to inheritance tax on the transfer of ordinary Taxation Convention between the UK and the US as entered into force in shares or preference shares.
Where an individual is liable, inheritance tax March 2003 the Treaty, all of which are subject to change, possibly on may be charged on the amount by which the value of his or her estate a retroactive basis.
is reduced as a result of any transfer by way of gift or other gratuitous This section is based in part upon the representations of the ADR transaction made by them or treated as made by them.
Depositary and the assumption that each obligation of the Deposit Agreement and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
Barclays PLC 308 Annual Report 2005 Taxation of US holders Taxation of premium on redemption or purchase of shares Taxation of dividends No refund of tax will be available under the Treaty in respect of any A US holder is subject to US federal income taxation on the gross premium paid on a redemption of preference shares by the Bank or on amount of any dividend paid by Barclays PLC or the Bank, as applicable, a purchase by Barclays PLC of its own shares.
For US tax purposes, out of its current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined redemption premium generally will be treated as an additional amount for US federal income tax purposes.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate realised in the calculation of gain or loss.
US holder in taxable years beginning before 1st January 2009 that Stamp duty constitute qualified dividend income will be taxable to the holder at No UK stamp duty is payable on the transfer of an ADS, provided that a maximum tax rate of 15%, provided that the holder has a holding the separate instrument of transfer is not executed in, and remains at all period of the shares or ADSs of more than 60 days during the 121-day times outside, the UK.
period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date or, in the case of preference shares or ADSs relating thereto, if the dividend is attributable Estate and gift tax to a period or periods aggregating over 366 days, provided that the Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US holder generally is not holder holds the shares or ADSs for more than 90 days during the subject to UK inheritance tax.
181-day period beginning 90 days before the ex-dividend date and Exchange controls and other limitations affecting security holders meets certain other holding period requirements.
Dividends paid by Other than certain emergency restrictions which may be in force from Barclays or the Bank, as applicable, with respect to the ordinary or time to time, there are currently no UK laws, decrees or regulations preference shares or ADSs will generally be qualified dividend income.
which would affect the transfer of capital or remittance of dividends, A US holder will not be subject to UK withholding tax.
The US holder interest and other payments to holders of Barclays securities who are will include in gross income for US federal income tax purposes the not residents of the UK.
There are also no restrictions under the Articles amount of the dividend actually received from Barclays or the Bank.
of Association of either Barclays PLC or the Bank, or under current UK Dividends must be included in income when the US holder, in the laws, which limit the right of non-resident or foreign owners, to hold case of shares, or the Depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or Barclays securities or, when entitled to vote, to do so.
constructively receives the dividend, and will not be eligible for the Documents on display dividends-received deduction generally allowed to US corporations in It is possible to read and copy documents that have been filed by respect of dividends received from other US corporations.
Dividends will Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC with the US Securities and be income from sources outside the US, but dividends paid in taxable Exchange Commission at the US Securities and Exchange Commissions years beginning before 1st January 2007 will generally be passive office of Investor Education and Assistance located at 100F Street, NE, income or financial services income, and dividends paid in taxable Washington DC 20549-0213.
Please call the US Securities and Exchange years beginning after 31st December 2006 will, depending on the Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public holders circumstances, be passive or general income which, in either reference rooms and their copy charges.
Filings with the US Securities case, is treated separately from other types of income for the purposes and Exchange Commission are also available to the public from of computing any allowable foreign tax credit.
commercial document retrieval services, and in the website maintained The amount of the dividend distribution includable in income will be by the SEC at www.
the US Dollar value of the pound Sterling payments made, determined at the spot Pound Sterling US Dollar rate on the date the dividend distribution is includable in income, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into US Dollars.
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange fluctuations during the period from the date the dividend payment is includable in income to the date the payment is converted into US Dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss and, for foreign tax credit limitation purposes, from sources within the US and will not be eligible for the special tax rate applicable to qualified dividend income.
Distributions in excess of current or accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be treated as a return of capital to the extent of the US holders basis in the shares or ADSs and thereafter as capital gain.
Taxation of capital gains Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK tax, but will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares, preference shares or ADSs.
Capital gain of a noncorporate US holder that is recognised before 1st January 2009 is generally taxed at a maximum rate of 15% where the holder has a holding period of greater than one year.
The gain or loss will generally be income or loss from sources within the United States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
