49 Principal subsidiaries Percentage of equity Country of registration capital held or incorporation Company name Nature of business % Botswana Barclays Bank of Botswana Limited Banking 74.9 Cayman Islands Barclays Capital Japan Limited Securities dealing 100 Egypt Barclays Bank Egypt SAE Banking 100 England Barclays Bank PLC ordinary shares Banking, holding company 100 England Barclays Private Bank Limited Banking 100 England Barclays Mercantile Business Finance Limited Commercial finance, holding company, leasing 100 England Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited Holding company 87.9 England Barclays Global Investors Limited Investment management 87.9 England Barclays Life Assurance Company Limited Life and pensions business 100 England Barclays Bank Trust Company Limited Banking, securities industries and trust services 100 England Barclays Stockbrokers Limited Stockbroking 100 England Barclays Capital Securities Limited Securities dealing 100 England Barclays Global Investors Pensions Management Limited Investment management 87.9 England FIRSTPLUS Financial Group PLC Consumer finance 100 England Gerrard Investment Management Limited Investment management 100 Ghana Barclays Bank of Ghana Limited Banking 100 Ireland Barclays Insurance Dublin Limited Insurance 100 Ireland Barclays Assurance Dublin Limited Insurance 100 Isle of Man Barclays Private Clients International Limited Banking 100 Jersey Barclays Private Bank & Trust Limited Banking, holding company 100 Kenya Barclays Bank of Kenya Limited Banking 68.5 South Africa Absa Group Limited Banking 56.6 Spain Barclays Bank SA Banking 99.6 Switzerland Barclays Bank Suisse S. A.
Banking and trust services 100 USA Juniper Financial Corporation Credit card issuer 100 USA Barclays Capital Inc. Securities dealing 100 USA Barclays Global Investors, National Association Investment management and securities industry 87.9 Zimbabwe Barclays Bank of Zimbabwe Limited Banking 67.7 In accordance with Section 231 5 of the Companies Act 1985, the above information is provided solely in relation to principal subsidiaries.
With the exception of Barclays Capital Japan Limited, which operates in Japan, the country of registration or incorporation is also the principal area of operation of each of the above subsidiaries.
Investments in these subsidiaries are held directly by Barclays Bank PLC except where marked.
Full information of all subsidiaries will be included in the Annual Return to be filed at Companies House.
50 Other entities There are a number of entities that do not qualify as subsidiaries under UK Law but which are consolidated under IAS 27 SIC-12 when the substance of the relationship between the Group and the entity usually a Special Purpose Entity SPE indicates that the entity is controlled by the Group.
Such entities are deemed to be controlled by the Group when relationships with such entities gives rise to benefits that are in substance no different from those that would arise were the entity a subsidiary.
The consolidation of such entities may be appropriate in a number of situations, but primarily when: the operating and financial polices of the entity are closely defined from the outset i. e. it operates on an autopilot basis with such policies being largely determined by the Group: the Group has rights to obtain the majority of the benefits of the entity and or retains the majority of the residual or ownership risks related to the entity: or the activities of the entity are being conducted largely on behalf of the Group according to its specific business objectives.
Such entities are created for a variety of purposes including securitisation, structuring, asset realisation, intermediation and management.
Entities may have a different reporting date from that of the parent of 31st December.
Dates may differ for a variety of reasons including local reporting regulations or tax laws.
In accordance with our accounting policies, for the purpose of inclusion in the consolidated financial statements of Barclays PLC, entities with different reporting dates are made up until 31st December.
Entities may have restrictions placed on their ability to transfer funds, including payment of dividends and repayment of loans, to their parent entity.
Reasons for the restrictions include: 3.5 Central bank restrictions relating to local exchange control laws.
Central bank capital adequacy requirements.
Company law restrictions relating to treatment of the entities as going concerns.
