Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2005 62 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS The pages that follow contain detailed reconciliations of UK GAAP to IFRS in accordance with IFRS 1.
The reconciliations contain two columns for each period as well as the UK GAAP and IFRS results.
The reclassify column includes reclassification and reanalysis of amounts from their UK GAAP profit and loss account and balance sheet lines to the appropriate IFRS income statement and balance sheet lines.
The remeasure column sets out the effects of the recognition and measurement changes required by the transition to IFRS.
The remeasure columns are further analysed into the type of adjustment.
Differences between UK GAAP and IFRS provide more information on each type of adjustment and are referenced in the remeasure analysis.
However, the UK GAAP cash flow statement was prepared based on cash being defined as cash and balances at central banks and loans and advances to banks repayable on demand.
The IFRS cash flow statement is prepared based on cash and cash equivalents being defined as highly liquid investments that are convertible into cash with an insignificant risk of changes in value with original maturities of less than three months.
Trading balances are not considered to be part of cash equivalents.
The two statements also differ with regard to the classification of items within the cash flow statement.
Under UK GAAP, the cash flow statement included the following categories: Operating activities.
Dividends from joint ventures and associates.
Returns on investments and servicing of finance.
Capital expenditure and financial investments.
Under IFRS, only three categories are required: operating, investing and financing.
Barclays PLC 254 Annual Report 2005 62 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS continued Differences between UK GAAP and IFRS The significant differences between the Groups UK GAAP accounting policies and IFRS accounting policies are summarised below.
UK GAAP IFRS a Consolidation and presentation The Group financial statements consolidate the assets, liabilities and the The Group financial statements consolidate the assets, liabilities and profits and losses of subsidiaries using the acquisition method.
Entities the profits and losses of subsidiaries using the acquisition method.
which do not qualify as subsidiaries but which in substance give rise to A subsidiary is an entity which the Group controls, including special benefits that are in essence no different from those that would arise purpose entities which are in substance controlled by the Group.
were the entity a subsidiary, are included in the consolidated financial Linked presentation is not available under IFRS.
assets and the related funding are presented separately.
In accordance with FRS 5, securitisation transactions which qualified are accounted for on the basis of linked presentation.
b Life assurance In order to reflect the different nature of the shareholders and The retail long-term assurance business is consolidated on a line-by-line policyholders' interests in the retail long-term assurance business, basis with assets, liabilities and income and expenditure, whether the value of the long-term assurance business attributable to other attributable to shareholders or attributable to policyholders, being shareholders is included in Other assets and the assets and liabilities included in the lines that reflect their nature.
attributable to policyholders are classified under separate headings in In accordance with IFRS from 2005, life assurance products are divided the consolidated balance sheet.
into investment contracts, which are accounted for under The value of the shareholders interest in the retail long-term assurance IAS 39 and insurance contracts, which under IFRS 4 continue to be fund represents an estimate of the net present value of the profits accounted for under UK GAAP.
The life fund is closed to new business inherent in the in-force policies, embedded value accounting.
All life and the volume of contracts which fall to be accounted for as insurance assurance products are accounted for in the same way: there is no contracts under IFRS is not significant.
Therefore, it was considered distinction between investment contracts and insurance contracts.
more appropriate to change the accounting policy for insurance contracts to a Modified Statutory Solvency Basis.
This change will allow the insurance contracts to be accounted for on a similar basis to investment contracts from 2005.
This change in policy applies from 1st January 2004 and the Modified Statutory Solvency Basis has been applied to all contracts, whether they will be classified as insurance contracts or as investment contracts in 2005. c Investments in associated companies and joint ventures Investments in associated companies and joint ventures are accounted Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using for using the equity method where the Group has the ability to exert the equity method where the Group has the ability to exert significant significant influence and actually does so.
Where incurred, losses are influence or control jointly.
Losses are recognised up to the point where recognised in full.
the investment in the entity or joint venture has been eliminated, and subsequent profits only to the extent that unrecognised cumulative losses have been made good.
Before using the equity accounting method, adjustments are made to ensure that the results of associates and joint ventures have been prepared based on Group accounting policies.
The difference between accounts prepared using UK GAAP policies and IFRS policies has resulted in a restatement of the investments in associates and joint ventures as at 1st January 2004. d Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisitions of subsidiaries and associated Goodwill arising on acquisitions of subsidiaries and associates and joint companies and joint ventures is capitalised and amortised through ventures is capitalised and tested annually for impairment.
the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over its expected Amounts recognised in the UK GAAP balance sheet at 1st January 2004 economic life.
Capitalised goodwill is written off when judged to have been carried forward without adjustment into the balance sheet be impaired.
Prior to 1998, goodwill arising on the acquisition of prepared in accordance with IFRS as deemed cost after being tested for subsidiaries was eliminated directly against reserves.
Goodwill previously written off to reserves in accordance with UK GAAP has not been reinstated on the balance sheet.
Goodwill 3.5 amortised under UK GAAP in 2004 has been written back in the 2004 IFRS financial statements.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 255 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2005 62 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS continued Differences between UK GAAP and IFRS UK GAAP IFRS e Share-based payment Where shares are purchased, the difference between the purchase price An annual charge is made in the income statement for share and any contribution made by the employee is charged to the profit and options and other share-based payments based on the fair value of loss account in the period to which it relates.
Where shares are issued options granted or shares awarded on the date of the grant or award.
or options granted, the charge made to the profit and loss account is This charge is spread over the period the employees services are the difference between the fair value at the time the award is made and received, which is the vesting period.
The fair value of options granted any contribution made by the employee.
For these purposes, fair value is is determined using option pricing models.
f Pensions and other post-retirement benefits Pension costs, based on actuarial assumptions, are calculated so as to For defined benefit schemes, an actuarial valuation of the scheme allocate the cost of providing benefits over the average remaining obligation and the fair value of the plan assets are made annually and service lives of the employees.
the difference between fair value of the plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, together with adjustments for any unrecognised actuarial losses and past service cost is recognised as a liability in the balance sheet.
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses in excess of the greater of 10% of the plan assets or 10% of the obligations of the plan are recognised in the income statement over the remaining average service lives of the employees of the related plan, on a straight-line basis.
At 1st January 2004, pension assets and liabilities have been recognised in full.
g Intangible assets other than goodwill The Group writes off the cost of computer software unless the software IFRS requires the capitalisation of both external and directly related is required to facilitate the use of new hardware.
Capitalised amounts internal costs where the software will result in a directly measurable are included with the hardware within Fixed assets.
Amounts capitalised are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Computer software is amortised at a rate of 20-33% per year.
Where software developed is not integral to the related hardware, the costs are classified as an intangible asset.
At 1st January 2004, qualifying amounts previously written off under UK GAAP have been recognised as intangible assets and the 2004 income statement has been adjusted accordingly.
For acquisitions arising after 1st January 2004, intangible assets which are required to be recognised separately from goodwill in accordance with IFRS 3 have been transferred from goodwill to intangible assets as at the date of acquisition.
Intangible assets acquired before 1st January 2004 have been reclassified from goodwill to intangible assets.
h Financial guarantees Credit related instruments other than credit derivatives are treated Financial guarantees other than credit derivatives are initially as contingent liabilities and these are not shown on the balance sheet recognised in the financial statements at fair value on the date that the unless, and until, the Group is called upon to make a payment under the guarantee was given.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the Groups instrument.
Fees received for providing these instruments are taken to liabilities under such guarantees are measured at the higher of the initial profit over the life of the instrument and reflected in fees and measurement, less amortisation calculated to recognise in the income commissions receivable.
statement the fee income earned over the period, and the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle any financial obligation arising as a result of the guarantees at the balance sheet date.
Barclays PLC 256 Annual Report 2005 62 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS continued Differences between UK GAAP and IFRS UK GAAP IFRS i Leasing Group as Lessor Group as Lessor Assets leased to customers under agreements which transfer Assets leased to customers under agreements which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership other than legal substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership other than legal title title are classed as finance leases.
All other leases are classified as are classified as finance leases.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded as Loans Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded as and advances to customers at the amount of the Groups net Loans and advances to customers at the amount of the Groups net investment in the lease.
Finance lease income is recognised so as to give a constant periodic Finance lease income is recognised so as to give a constant rate of rate of return on the net cash investment in the lease taking into return on the net cash investment, without taking account of tax account tax payments and receipts associated with the lease.
payments and receipts the pre-tax actuarial method.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line The assets held for operating leases are included within the Groups basis over the term of the lease unless another systematic basis is property, plant and equipment and depreciated over their useful more appropriate.
Lease income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease unless another systematic basis is Group as Lessee more appropriate.
Assets held on finance leases are capitalised where the lease transfers the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group.
This is achieved Group as Lessee generally where the lease payments, when discounted at the rate of Assets held on finance leases are capitalised where the lease transfers interest implicit in the lease, constitute substantially all, generally not the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group.
The conditions for less than 90%, of the fair value of the leased asset at the date of the capitalisation are the same as UK GAAP, except that IFRS requires the inception of the lease, and the primary lease term equates to the useful land and buildings elements of leases to be assessed separately to life of the asset.
Leases related to land and buildings do not qualify for determine whether the buildings element should be capitalised.
This capitalisation, since the useful life of land is not finite.
has not resulted in any significant change to the classification or measurement of assets or liabilities arising from finance leases where Lease incentives are spread over the period to the next rent review.
Lease incentives are spread over the term of the lease.
j Dividends Dividends declared after the period end are recorded in the period to Dividends are recorded in the period in which they are approved by the which they relate.
k Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full for all material timing differences that Deferred tax is provided in full based on the concept of temporary have not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Provision is not made for differences, including items such as the revaluation of property and the specific items which are not expected to result in taxable income in the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and associated companies where future, namely gains on the revaluation of property and the unremitted the Group is not able to control their distribution policies.
earnings of subsidiary and associated companies.
l Other credit risk provisions Provision balances for bad and doubtful debts include provisions Provisions raised with respect to undrawn contractually committed raised with respect to undrawn contractually committed facilities facilities and guarantees other credit risk provisions are presented and guarantees.
separately from impairment losses on loans and advances.
In 2004, the other credit risk provisions have been presented separately from provision balances for bad and doubtful debts.
However, the measurement of these provisions is unchanged from UK GAAP.
m Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is carried at either original cost or The carrying value of property, plant and equipment included in the UK subsequent valuation, less depreciation calculated on the revalued GAAP balance sheet at 1st January 2004 has been carried forward into 3.5 amount where applicable.
From 1st January 2000, following the the IFRS balance sheet without adjustment as deemed cost.
introduction of FRS 15, the revalued book amounts were retained without Depreciation is charged in a manner consistent with UK GAAP.
subsequent revaluation subject to the requirement to test for impairment.
Depreciation is charged on the cost or revalued amounts of freehold and long leasehold properties over their estimated economic lives.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 257 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2005 62 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS continued Differences between UK GAAP and IFRS Effects of the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 The significant differences between the Groups UK GAAP accounting policies and IFRS accounting policies applied to the treatment of financial instruments and insurance contracts, which have been incorporated into the opening balance sheet as at 1st January 2005, are as follows: UK GAAP IFRS n Derivatives and hedge accounting Derivatives used for hedging purposes are measured on an accruals IAS 39 requires all derivatives to be recorded at fair value.
Provided all basis consistent with the assets, liabilities, positions or future cash flows hedge accounting conditions are met and the hedging relationship is being hedged.
The gains and losses on these instruments arising from deemed to be effective, the derivative may be designated as a fair value changes in fair value are not recognised in the profit and loss account hedge, cash flow hedge or hedge of a net investment in a foreign immediately as they arise.
Such gains are either not recognised in the operation.
The change in value of the fair value hedge is recorded in balance sheet or are recognised and carried forward.
When the hedged income along with the change in fair value, relating to the hedged risk, transaction occurs, the gain or loss is recognised in the profit and loss of the hedged asset or liability.
The change in value of a cash flow account at the same time as the hedged item.
hedge is recorded in equity, to the extent it is effective and recycled to income as the hedged cash flows affect the income statement.
Derivatives that are not hedge accounted are recorded at fair value, with The change in value of a net investment hedge is recorded in the changes in fair value recorded in the profit and loss account.
translation reserve to the extent the hedge is effective and only released Products which contain embedded derivatives are valued with reference to the income statement when the underlying investment is sold.
to the total product inclusive of the derivative element.
As at 1st January 2005, all hedging derivatives have been recognised at fair value and adjustments have been made to hedged items where fair value hedge accounting will be applied.
Hedges have been designated and documented in compliance with IFRS and, where possible, US GAAP with hedge accounting applied from that date.
Where hedges were in place under UK GAAP that have not been designated as hedges under IFRS, adjustments have been made to the hedged item or equity to reflect the hedged position as at 31st December 2004.
Some hybrid contracts contain both a derivative and a non-derivative component.
In such cases, the derivative component is termed an embedded derivative.
Where the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivative are not closely related to those of the host contract, and the host contract itself is not carried at fair value, the embedded derivative is bifurcated and reported at fair value with gains and losses being recognised in the income statement.
At 1st January 2005, all embedded derivatives or the whole contracts containing embedded derivatives have been included on the balance sheet at fair value.
o Classification and measurement of financial instruments Financial instruments are generally divided into banking book, which are IAS 39 requires all financial assets to be classified at initial acquisition carried at cost, and trading book, which are carried at fair value.
and subsequently measured in accordance with the classification: Positions in investment debt securities and investments in equity shares Classification Measurement basis are stated at cost less provision for diminution in value.
Investment securities are those intended for use on a continuing basis by the Group.
Held to maturity Amortised cost less impairment Loan or receivable Amortised cost less impairment Available for sale Fair value gains and losses included in shareholders equity until disposal or impairment Fair value through Fair value gains and losses included in the profit or loss income statement Financial liabilities are classified as held for trading or are carried at amortised cost.
In addition, in certain circumstances financial assets and liabilities may be designated as fair valued through profit and loss at initial acquisition.
Barclays PLC 258 Annual Report 2005 62 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS continued Differences between UK GAAP and IFRS Effects of the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 UK GAAP IFRS o Classification and measurement of financial instruments continued Investment securities and equity shares are generally classified as available for sale.
The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument at initial recognition is the transaction price, unless the fair value of that instrument is evidenced by comparison with other observable current market transactions in the same instrument or is based on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets.
At 1st January 2005, financial instruments have been classified and measured in accordance with IAS 39.
In general, financial instruments included in the trading book under UK GAAP have been classified as held for trading, banking book loans and receivables have been classified as loans or receivables and investment securities have been classified as available for sale.
In addition, the fair value of certain trading derivatives has been restated to eliminate any profits recognised that are not evidenced by reference to data from observable markets.
p Netting Under FRS 5, items are aggregated into a single item where there is a Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in right to insist on net settlement and the debit balance matures no later the balance sheet if, and only if, there is currently a legally enforceable than the credit balance.
right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis at all times, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
The application of IFRS has resulted in certain transactions that qualified for netting under UK GAAP, being presented on a gross basis from 1st January 2005.
The primary differences include derivative assets and liabilities subject to master netting agreements, repurchase contracts and cash collateral balances.
q Capital instruments Under FRS 4, capital instruments are classified as debt if they contain an Issued financial instruments are classified as liabilities where the obligation, including a contingent obligation, to transfer economic substance of the contractual arrangement results in the Group having a benefits to another party.
present obligation to either deliver cash or another financial asset to the holder.
In the absence of such an obligation, the financial instrument is classified as equity.
The application of IFRS has resulted in certain funding instruments that were included in undated loan capital under UK GAAP being reclassified as equity from 1st January 2005.
Where the instruments have been reclassified, they have been remeasured to net proceeds at the date of issue and the subsequent foreign currency movements have been eliminated.
3.5 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 259 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2005 62 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS continued Differences between UK GAAP and IFRS Effects of the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 UK GAAP IFRS r Loan impairment Specific provisions are raised when the creditworthiness of a borrower Impairment losses are recognised where there is evidence of has deteriorated such that the recovery of the whole or part of an impairment as a result of one or more loss events that have occurred outstanding advance is in serious doubt.
Specific provisions are after initial recognition, and where these events have had an impact on generally raised on an individual basis, although specific provisions the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or portfolio of may be raised on a portfolio basis for homogeneous assets and where financial assets.
Impairment of loans and receivables is measured as the statistical techniques are appropriate.
General provisions are raised to difference between the carrying amount and the present value of cover losses which are judged to be present in loans and advances at estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original the balance sheet date, but which have not been specifically identified effective interest rate.
Impairment is measured individually for assets as such.
that are individually significant and on a collective basis for portfolios with similar risk characteristics.
If collection of interest is doubtful, it is credited to a suspense account and excluded from interest income in the profit and loss account.
Under IFRS, all impairment allowances are calculated in the same The suspense account in the balance sheet is netted against the manner and there is no distinction between general and specific relevant loan.
The overall change in the total level of credit impairment is not material.
The application of IFRS has resulted in reanalysis of UK GAAP general and specific provisions into IFRS impairment allowances and the reallocation of impairment allowances within the businesses.
Interest on impaired loans is recognised using the original effective interest rate, being the rate used to discount the estimated future cash flows for the purpose of calculating impairment.
s Effective interest Interest is recognised in the income statement as it accrues.
Fee income The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised relating to loans and advances is recognised so as to match the cost of cost of a financial asset or liability or group of assets and liabilities and providing a continuing service, together with a reasonable profit margin.
of allocating the interest income or interest expense over the relevant Where fees are charged in lieu of interest, it is recognised as interest period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts the receivable on a level yield basis over the life of the advance.
Costs expected future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of associated with the acquisition of financial assets are either spread over the financial instrument, or when appropriate, a shorter period, to the the anticipated life of the loans or recognised as incurred, depending on net carrying amount of the instrument.
The method results in all fees the nature of the cost.
relating to the origination or settlement of the loan that are in the nature of interest and all direct and incremental costs associated with origination being recognised over the expected life of the loan.
The application of the method has the effect of recognising income or expense receivable or payable on an instrument evenly in proportion to the amount outstanding over the period to maturity or repayment.
t Insurance contracts Certain products offered to institutional pension funds are accounted From 1st January 2005, life assurance products are divided into for as investment products when the substance of the investment is investment contracts and insurance contracts.
Investment contracts are that of managed funds.
The assets and related liabilities are excluded accounted for under IAS 39 and insurance contracts are accounted for from the consolidated balance sheet in order to reflect this substance.
under the Modified Statutory Solvency Basis.
The income and expense and assets and liabilities that arise on the investment contracts are presented separately from those arising under insurance contracts.
Where the legal form of the asset management products offered to institutional pension funds is an insurance contract, the assets and corresponding liabilities associated with these products are recorded on the balance sheet as investment contracts.
Barclays PLC 260 Annual Report 2005 62 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS continued Differences between UK GAAP and IFRS Effects of the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 UK GAAP IFRS u Derecognition and financial liabilities Under FRS 5, a liability is derecognised if an entitys obligation to A financial liability is extinguished when and only when the obligation transfer economic benefits is satisfied, removed or is no longer likely to is discharged, cancelled or expires.
A financial asset can be removed occur.
from the balance sheet only where the derecognition conditions have been met, including a requirement to continue to recognise financial assets only to the extent of any continuing involvement in them after the transfer.
The application of IFRS has resulted in certain customer accounts being remeasured as at 1st January 2005 to reflect the entire legal obligation.
In addition, certain customer loyalty provisions, which meet the definition of financial liabilities, have been reclassified from provisions to financial liabilities and remeasured accordingly.
Certain securitisation structures that qualified for linked presentation under UK GAAP in 2004, and which were presented on a gross basis under IFRS in 2004, qualified for derecognition on a continuing involvement basis under IFRS from 1st January 2005 and have been substantially removed from the balance sheet from that date.
