Financial review Off-balance sheet arrangements Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Asset Securitisations In the ordinary course of business and primarily to facilitate client The Group assists companies with the formation of asset transactions, the Group enters into off-balance sheet arrangements securitisations.
These entities have minimal equity and rely on with unconsolidated entities.
These arrangements include the provision funding in the form of notes to purchase the assets for securitisation.
of guarantees on behalf of the Groups customers, retained interests in The Group provides financing in the form of senior notes and or junior assets which have been transferred to an unconsolidated entity and notes and may also provide derivatives to the SPE.
obligations arising out of variable interests in an unconsolidated entity.
The Group has also used SPEs to securitise part of its originated and Guarantees purchased retail and commercial lending portfolios and credit card In the normal course of business, the Group issues guarantees on receivables.
Where the Group has sold the assets to a Qualifying SPE behalf of its customers.
In the majority of cases, Barclays will hold QSPE, the QSPE is not consolidated by the Group.
This results in the collateral against the exposure, have a right of recourse to the derecognition of assets of 6,953m as at 31st December 2005 customer or both.
In addition, Barclays issues guarantees on its own 2004: 7,660m under US GAAP.
Following the sale of these assets behalf.
The main types of guarantees provided are financial guarantees to the securitisation vehicles, the Group may retain servicing rights and given to banks and financial institutions on behalf of customers to an interest in the residual income of the SPEs.
Under IFRS, the SPEs are secure loans, overdrafts and other banking facilities, including stock consolidated where the Group is exposed to the majority of the risks borrowing indemnities and standby letters of credit.
Other guarantees and rewards of the transaction.
Further details are included in Note 63 provided include performance guarantees, advance payment to the accounts.
guarantees, tender guarantees, guarantees to Her Majestys Revenue Client Intermediation and Customs and retention guarantees.
Further details on these The Group is involved in structuring transactions as a financial guarantees are provided in Note 63 m to the accounts.
intermediary to meet investor and client needs.
These transactions Derivatives on Own Shares involve entities structured by either the Group or the client and they are The Group has no obligations under derivative instruments that are used to modify cash flows of third-party assets to create investments indexed to the Groups own equity shares.
with specific risk or return profiles or to assist clients in the efficient management of other risks.
The Group also invests in lessor entities Special Purpose and Variable Interest Entities specifically to acquire assets for leasing.
Client intermediation also The off-balance sheet arrangements entered into by the Group typically includes arrangements to fund the purchase or construction of specific involve the use of special purpose entities SPEs as defined under SIC 12 assets most common in the property industry.
Certain entities that and variable interest entities VIEs under FIN 46-R.
These are entities are consolidated in accordance with IAS 27 and SIC 12 under IFRS are that are set up for a specific purpose and generally would not enter deconsolidated under US GAAP where the Group is not the primary into an operating activity nor have any employees.
The impact on the Groups total assets under US GAAP is form of SPE involves the acquisition of financial assets that are an increase of 327m 2004: reduction of 656m.
funded by the issuance of securities to external investors, which have cash flows different from those of the underlying instruments.
Fund Management The repayment of these securities is determined by the performance The Group provides asset management services to a large number of of the assets acquired by the SPE.
These entities form an integral part investment entities on an arms-length basis and at market terms and of many financial markets, and are important to the development of prices.
The majority of these entities are investment funds that are the securitisation markets and functioning of the US commercial owned by a large and diversified number of investors.
These funds are paper market.
The accounting treatment under IFRS and US GAAP is not consolidated under either IFRS or US GAAP because the Group summarised in Note 63 on page 263 with further information on the does not own either a significant portion of the equity, or the risks and US GAAP treatment provided in Note 63 k on pages 275 and 276. rewards inherent in the assets.
Credit Structuring Business The Group structures investments with specific risk profiles which are attractive to investors.
This business involves the sale by the Group of credit exposures based on an underlying portfolio of assets into SPEs, often using credit derivative contracts.
The assets are funded by issuing securities with varying terms.
The Group may also provide other financial services, which include the provision of liquidity or contingent 3.3 liquidity facilities, act as derivatives counterparty as well as the purchasing and warehousing of securities until they are sold to the SPE.
The commitments to provide liquidity to these SPEs is a maximum of 1.1bn 2004: 0.6bn.
