CO. UK ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 BRADFORD & BINGLEY 35 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Under applicable law and regulations, the respect of the Annual Report & Accounts Directors are also responsible for preparing a and the Financial Statements Directors Report, Directors Remuneration The Directors are responsible for preparing the Report and a Corporate Governance Statement Annual Report & Accounts and the Group and that comply with that law and those regulations.
parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate Company law requires the Directors to and financial information included on the prepare Group and Company Financial Companys website.
Legislation in the UK Statements for each financial year.
Under that governing the preparation and dissemination law they are required to prepare the Group of financial statements may differ from Financial Statements in accordance with IFRS legislation in other jurisdictions.
as adopted by the European Union the EU and have elected to prepare the Company Steven Crawshaw GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE Financial Statements on the same basis.
15 February 2006 The Group and Company Financial Statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position of the Group and the Company and the performance of the Group for that period: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing each of the Group and Company Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: and prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
