CO. UK ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 BRADFORD & BINGLEY 99 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Financial calendar 2006 Useful contacts Dividend mandates 16 February Results for 2005 announced For information about the Annual General If you have already elected to receive your 25 April Annual General Meeting Meeting AGM, shareholdings, dividends and dividends directly into an account, you will 27 July Interim results for 2006 announced changes to personal details please contact the receive one consolidated tax voucher each Registrar: Computershare Investor Services PLC, year.
This will contain the taxation details of Ordinary dividend PO Box 1913, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, all dividends paid in that particular tax year.
24 March Record date Otherwise dividends will be paid to you by 5 May Payment of final dividend for 2005 Institutional investors may wish to contact cheque to the address held by the Registrar.
If 23 August Ex-dividend date Investor Relations by calling 01274 554928. you wish to have them credited to a bank or 25 August Record date building society account, you will receive a 6 October Payment of interim dividend for 2006 The Summary Financial Statement is posted to form with the dividend payment enabling you shareholders who have not requested a full to do this.
Interest payments version of the Annual Report & Accounts and 13% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds to those members of the BBNA who have Electronic communications 7 April Payment of interest requested to receive it, together with the AGM The Company has set up a facility for 7 October Payment of interest documents and a voting form.
A full version of shareholders to take advantage of electronic 11.625% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds the Annual Report & Accounts is available on communications.
You can vote online and 20 January Payment of interest our www.
Those receive notication of shareholder 20 July Payment of interest shareholders in the BBNA who do not currently documents electronically.
receive these documents can make a request to Internet do so at anytime by calling the Registrar on To cast your AGM vote online log on to Information about the Group can be found on 0870 703 0003.
com voting uk and the internet at www.
co. uk Statement is available in large print, Braille and complete the following steps: audio tape format.
To request a copy call the Choose the Bradford & Bingley meeting Share price Shareholder Helpline on 0870 703 0003.
You will need to enter your SRN and the You are able to keep track of the share price unique PIN number printed on your through the financial press, or by visiting our ShareGift Scheme voting form Group website at www.
co. uk or by calling Many investors nd themselves owning parcels Enter your choices on screen the Shareholder Helpline on 0870 703 0003. of shares in quantities so small that it would cost more to sell them than they are worth.
To register your e-mail address so that future Share dealing service They may therefore be too small to do shareholder information can be made To buy or sell Bradford & Bingley shares call anything with, but may still bring an additional available to you electronically log on to 0870 703 0003.
This service is provided by tax liability on any dividends paid and unwanted www.
co. uk and complete the our Registrar, Computershare, and is available annual reports and other documents.
following steps: to all our shareholders.
Please have your Click on Shareholder e-Services Enter the required information and click Securityholder Reference Number SRN ready Bradford & Bingley plc supports the ShareGift scheme which is administered by The Orr on submit.
You will need your SRN when making your call.
You will nd this on your voting form or your dividend documents.
Mackintosh Foundation registered charity located on your voting form or most number 1052686.
Any shares that you donate recent tax voucher An internet share dealing service has also been to the ShareGift scheme will be transferred Click on submit again and register online established with our Registrar.
Log on to into the name of The Orr Mackintosh www.
com dealing uk and have Foundation, who will aggregate them, sell them Electronic proxy appointment through CREST your SRN ready.
A bank debit card will be as soon as possible, and donate the proceeds In addition to providing electronic voting and required if you wish to purchase shares.
to a growing list of charities.
Since ShareGift proxy appointment via our Registrars website, was started in 1996, millions of pounds have the Company is supporting the CREST For shareholders in the Bradford & Bingley been given to hundreds of different charities.
Please Nominee Account BBNA a postal share see the notes on the proxy voting form for dealing service is also available.
Please contact If you would like to participate in the ShareGift details of how to use this service.
scheme, or receive more information about the scheme, they can be contacted by visiting their website at www.
co. uk, by calling 0207 337 0501, or by writing to The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, 46 Grosvenor Street, London W1K 3HN.
100 BRADFORD & BINGLEY ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 WWW.
As at 31 December 2005 the share price was 410.5p and the market capitalisation was 2.6bn.
Relative share price performance since otation Relative share price performance 2005 440 450 420 400 400 350 380 300 360 250 340 200 320 150 300 280 100 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec 05 05 05 05 05 05 05 05 05 05 05 05 00 01 02 03 04 05 Bradford & Bingley Group FTSE All Share FTSE 350 Banks Advisers Auditor Registrar Stockbrokers KPMG Audit Plc Computershare Investor Services PLC Citigroup Global Markets Limited 1 The Embankment, Neville Street PO Box 1913, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road Canada Square, Canary Wharf, Leeds LS1 4DW Bristol BS99 2PR London E14 5LB Financial Adviser Solicitor Hoare Govett Limited Goldman Sachs International Herbert Smith 250 Bishopsgate, Peterborough Court, 133 Fleet Street Exchange House, Primrose Street London EC2M 4AA London EC4A 2BB London EC2A 2HS B16000 REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 COVER 22 2 06 18:21 Page 1 www.
co. uk Registered office: Bradford & Bingley plc Croft Road Crossflatts Bingley West Yorkshire BD16 2UA Telephone: 01274 555555 Email: enquiries@bbg.
co. uk Registered in England Number 3938288 B16163 CSR BROCHURE AW cover 24 2 06 16:39 Page 1 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2005 B16163 CSR BROCHURE AW cover 24 2 06 16:39 Page 2 CONTENTS 1 Introduction 10 Doing the right thing in the community 23 Independent verication statement 2 Group Chief Executives message 14 Doing the right thing in the environment 24 Feedback 4 Doing the right thing in the marketplace 17 Our results 6 Doing the right thing in the workplace 20 Our environmental policy Introduction Welcome to Bradford & Bingleys Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Report for 2005.
The purpose of this report is to cover in detail our CSR programme, providing results and case studies from the year.
B16163 CSR BROCHURE AW cover 24 2 06 16:39 Page 3 This report is Carbon Neutral Future Forests goal for this project, along with Directions In order to minimise the environmental impact a few other funding organisations, is to create From Jedburgh take the A68 towards Corbridge.
of this report, Bradford & Bingley is working an area of native broadleaved woodland with The site is on the right from Carter Bar down to with The Carbon Neutral Company to assess access to visitors.
In order to best manage the Catcleugh reservoir.
The planting area is at the and offset the greenhouse gas emissions site, the planting will be phased and consists of south eastern corner near the reservoir.
There is created by the production and distribution of several native species including birch, ash, access from the forestry track.
1.73 tonnes of CO will be willow and alder.
This low impact approach 2 balanced by planting trees on Whitelee Moor should allow native species of birds to inhabit to absorb these emissions over time, making the forest.
In all, the project will add trees to an this report Carbon Neutral already stunning nature reserve and increase its ability to soak up carbon emissions and so For more information on The Carbon Neutral help protect the climate.
com High up the Bateinghope Burn, near Buzzard About our forest Crag, are two sets of limekilns, which burned Whitelee Moor is one of Britains most limestone from a nearby quarry and mine.
Its spacious Further down the slopes you can see circular and wild home to blanket bog, heather stone structures, called stells, which provide moorland, acid grassland and pockets of valley shelter for sheep in bad weather.
The lower slopes are home to moorland wild goats can sometimes be seen on the birds such as red grouse and curlew, and birds border.
The goats are in fact feral they are Grid Reference: NT7244040 of prey including merlins, buzzards, peregrine from domestic stock, but have been left to falcons and hen harriers use the area.
For roam wild for many centuries.
One of the hundreds of years, Whitelee has been grazed moors most striking animals is the Emperor but levels of stock are carefully controlled and Moth its woolly caterpillars become bright former drainage channels, or grips, are being green as they grow, before pupating and dammed to make sure the bog stays wet.
emerging as a spectacular day-ying moth.
CO. UK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005 BRADFORD & BINGLEY 1 Bradford & Bingley believes in placing We have received positive feedback on Community Corporate Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility our reporting, but we have been asked Index.
In 2005, Bradford & Bingley was CSR at the heart of our business to provide more information on Key proud to be named as one of the top activities.
This report aims to show Performance Indicators KPIs.
This 100 Companies That Count in BITCs how we conduct business in a socially year, therefore, you will see an increase Corporate Responsibility Index.
responsible manner in respect of the in our results and reporting section.
environment, staff, customers, Mark Stevens, Managing Director shareholders and local communities.
This report continues to be published Group Strategy, continues as the on our corporate website, executive responsible for the We continue to structure our CSR www.
co. uk, and we encourage Groups CSR programme, with reporting along the FORGE framework people to access the report online.
overall accountability for the CSR for CSR Management and Reporting We also produce a limited number of budget and line management of the for the Financial Services Sector.
This paper copies and, as in previous years, Groups CSR Manager.
Robert Dickie, report follows the four major themes both this report and our Annual Group Operations Director, identied by FORGE as being those Report & Accounts have been continues as the Executive Director most relevant to financial services made Carbon Neutral through our responsible for the Groups organisations Marketplace, carbon offsetting programme with environmental performance under his Workplace, Community and The Carbon Neutral Company responsibility for Group Property and Environment.
consortium of financial institutions and involves the British Bankers Association As part of our commitment to and the Association of British Insurers.
sharing best practice in the eld of CSR, Bradford & Bingley is a Bradford & Bingley has published a national member of Business in the stand-alone CSR report for the last Community BITC, and the two years and feedback forms an London Benchmarking Group important part of developing and LBG.
Throughout the year, senior improving our CSR programme.
executives and board members have During 2005, we entered into taken part in Seeing is Believing tours proactive dialogue particularly with the and spoken at BITC events.
investment community to improve both our reporting and our CSR Bradford & Bingley continues to be programme, although we continue to a member of the FTSE4Good Index seek feedback from community and of socially responsible companies, voluntary groups, staff and customers.
and participates in the Business in the B16163 CSR BROCHURE AW 28 2 06 16:05 Page 2 2 BRADFORD & BINGLEY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005 WWW.
CO. UK GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES MESSAGE Moving forward Steven Crawshaw 2005 has been a very strong GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE year for Bradford & Bingley in terms of financial performance and I am pleased to report that it has also been a strong year for our CSR performance.
In April, we were delighted to see that we had risen over 50 places in BITCs Corporate Responsibility Index and were ranked as one of the top 100 Companies That Count in BITCs Corporate Responsibility Index which was published in the Sunday Times.
Indeed, we have published our condential feedback from the Index on our website to demonstrate our commitment to disclosure of our CSR programme.
We were also awarded two Big Ticks in BITCs Awards for Excellence: one for our work with Shelter, and a collaborative action award for our support of West Midlands Business Action on Homelessness.
This external recognition is the end result of a lot of hard work across the business as a whole.
We believe that CSR needs to form part of our core business activities and needs to pervade the business from board level to every front line member of staff.
I am particularly pleased, therefore, that this year saw our first product related CSR activity when we teamed up with Wallace & Gromits Childrens Foundation to help promote our new childrens savings account whilst also donating money for each new account opened.
We are looking at other ways to integrate CSR into our product range and we are planning to launch an environmentally focused campaign in 2006.
CO. UK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005 BRADFORD & BINGLEY 3 I continue to be impressed and challenged by In a year that was marked by a number of To continue to increase the percentage of the desire for information on our CSR policies natural disasters around the world, I was struck staff giving to charity via payroll giving from the investment community and media.
by the amazing response of Bradford & Bingleys - Achieved.
Through a well run We are also seeing a growing interest in staff, customers and suppliers to every appeal promotional campaign, we increased the CSR from our customers, findings which are that was made for aid.
percentage of staff participating in our backed up by the latest MORI survey which payroll giving programme from 6% to 9%.
states that 82% of customers believe it is The Indian Ocean Tsunami, the Pakistan To increase the programme of support to important that the companies they buy from Earthquake and the food crisis in Niger all saw branches for local community involvement show a high degree of social responsibility massive levels of support from our staff, - Partly Achieved.
An increasing number Source: MORI CSR Survey 2005. suppliers and customers, not just nancially but of branches take part in our community with offers of material goods and volunteering support programme, but I still believe In view of this interest and following on from time including some of our staff who manned that we can continue to play a fuller part feedback on last years CSR report, we have donation helplines.
in our local communities and we shall continued to increase the amount of KPI data continue to focus on this aim in 2006. available in the report.
Bradford & Bingley is a member of a group of twenty banks and building societies that work Other Key Achievements in 2005 Bradford & Bingley continues to be a major with Y Care International as their emergency Ranked 57th in the Sunday Times 100 lender in the social housing sector and, in aid partner.
Y Care International is the Companies that Count 2005, we lent over 203 million in the lifetime international relief and development agency of Awarded two Big Ticks in Business in the mortgage lending market, increasing our the YMCA and has faced an unprecedented Communitys Awards for Excellence market share to 19.4% 2004: 19.2% whilst demand on its resources in 2005.
During the Improved performance in the Business in continuing to be an active member of Safe year, over 278,000 was raised for Y Care the Environment Index.
Key Goals for 2006 Bradford & Bingley is a FTSE250 company, We continue to review progress against our To develop and set targets for the KPIs of employing over 3,000 staff and in 2005 we goals for 2005 and set new goals for 2006: our CSR programme have paid 109 million to shareholders in To support the social and economic dividends, 75 million in taxes and over 123 Key Goals for 2005 regeneration of West Yorkshire million in staff salaries and benets.
These To improve disclosure of our CSR To launch further product initiatives with a employment opportunities, taxes and programme by increasing the information CSR element dividends are all benets to the UK community available to the public To continue to increase staff involvement in in addition to our CSR programme detailed in - Achieved.
We are committed to public our CSR programme this report.
disclosure of our CSR programme and To continue to support Shelters freephone have made available on our CSR website, housing advice line, increasing the number On a personal basis I have continued to play our condential feedback from the of calls to the helpline.
an active part in our CSR programme.
I was Business in the Community Corporate privileged to host a reception at the Institute Responsibility and Environmental Indices.
Bradford & Bingley has continued to develop its of Directors in October celebrating our We have also continued to increase the CSR programme in 2005.
I hope that this sponsorship of Shelters freephone housing number of KPIs in this report.
report will help you to understand our activities advice line.
I shared the speakers platform To continue to support Shelters freephone better and that you nd it of interest.
I with David Ford, Shelters Director of Services housing advice line formerly known as encourage you to take the time to feed back and Richard Wilson, the actor and long term Shelterline, increasing the number of calls any suggestions or comments which will help supporter of Shelter.
I also believe that to the helpline us make our programme even better.
Bradford & Bingley has an extremely important - Achieved.
Shelters freephone housing role to play in supporting the community in advice line took its 450,000th call in our West Yorkshire heartland and have 2005.
We continue to offer support, Steven Crawshaw supported a number of these activities both financial and through employee GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE throughout the year, more detail of which and customer support.
can be found in the Community section of To increase the number of departments this report.
who are Carbon Neutral - Achieved.
In 2005, we increased the I am also pleased that our CSR report has number of Carbon Neutral departments for the first time been independently veried from four to eight, adding Insurance by Bureau Veritas, who carried out our Marketing, Internal Communications, environmental audit in 2004.
Group Strategy, and I am pleased to say, the Chief Executives Ofce.
B16163 CSR BROCHURE AW 28 2 06 16:05 Page 4 4 BRADFORD & BINGLEY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005 WWW.
CO. UK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Doing the right thing in the marketplace Buy-to-let: providing loans to landlords and to remain a major player in other specialist Over the last twelve months property investors.
The growth of buy-to-let markets such as lifetime and self-certication.
we have seen significant growth has increased the availability of rental housing stock in the UK, making it easier for people to We are pleased that lifetime mortgages are now in our share price and financial nd affordable decent housing.
regulated by the Financial Services Authority returns.
However, both of Self-certication: loans for individuals who have FSA and Mortgage Express continues to be a complex income streams, including the selfthese outcomes are driven by member of Safe Home Income Plans SHIP.
employed and those with more than one job SHIP is the UKs leading professional body for our focus and philosophy for Lifetime: enabling customers over the age of equity release providers, launched in 1991 and doing business nding what is 60 to gradually release the equity they have dedicated entirely to the protection of built up in their main residence, to enhance borrowers and promotion of safe home best for the customer.
income and equity release plans.
Following our strategic refocus in 2004 These products address some of the growing Mortgage Express observes the SHIP Code we now have two well established arms to concerns within the housing market in the UK of Practice which has been welcomed by Age our business: and products are sold under the Mortgage Concern.
As a member of SHIP, Mortgage Express brand, Bradford & Bingleys specialist Express guarantees that borrowers cannot lose Lending: providing a range of residential mortgage subsidiary.
their home whatever happens to the stock mortgages, secured commercial property market or interest rates.
More details about SHIP loans and loans to housing associations Mortgage Express is a market leading specialist are available on its www.
Retail: selling Bradford & Bingleys own lender.
It has the largest buy-to-let customer savings products and a choice of other base in the UK and in November completed its Mortgage Express lifetime product has a xed financial products through our branches and 6,000th lifetime mortgage.
Over 30% of lifetime rate for the duration of the mortgage term.
mortgages sold through mortgage Interest is rolled up monthly and added to the intermediaries such as Independent Financial loan throughout the term.
No monthly Both of these arms have their own approach Advisers IFAs are Mortgage Express products.
to CSR but, signicantly, both have been able to demonstrate their CSR credentials through Mortgage Express, as a market leader, publishes The loan is not payable until the death of the their range of products and services this year.
authoritative reports on confidence in the buylast surviving borrower, or when the property to-let market as well as economic outlook ceases to become the main residence, for LENDING reports.
Both of these reports are published on example, the last surviving borrower moves Bradford & Bingleys lending business develops our www.
In addition, Mortgage and manufactures a range of lending products Express provides a no negative equity guarantee primarily secured on residential property.
As a In September, Mortgage Express celebrated its which ensures that borrowers or estate will company, we have made a policy decision not 10th anniversary as a specialist lender.
During never owe more than the value of the property.
to participate in the unsecured consumer the last decade, it has developed its product lending markets as we believe our underwriting range, increased market share and won many expertise is in secured lending.
Bradford & Bingleys residential lending activity The vision statement for Mortgage Express is a focuses on a range of niche areas, providing clear one to be the natural choice for mortgages for individuals who need a more innovative mortgage solutions.
Mortgage specialist product than those available in the Express is currently the leading buy-to-let mainstream market.
Typical mortgages include: lender and plans to remain so.
We also intend B16163 CSR BROCHURE AW 28 2 06 16:05 Page 5 WWW.
CO. UK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005 BRADFORD & BINGLEY 5 Bradford & Bingley is in a good position to savings for the future.
SmartSave is also an operate in these niche markets as we instant access account and is available for understand and mitigate risk levels because of young adults up to the age of 25. our long track record, good understanding of the markets and their customers and strong FirstSave and SmartSave were launched in underwriting and collections skills.
All association with Aardman Animations and Mortgage Express lending is secured on UK Wallace & Gromits Childrens Foundation.
every new account opened, Bradford & Bingley makes a 1 donation to the Foundation and in In addition to these specialist loans, Bradford & 2005 over 11,000 was donated.
In addition, Bingley has a portfolio of traditional residential the branch network sold a range of pin badges mortgages, which are secured on UK residential provided by Wallace & Gromits Childrens property.
Little new business is currently being Foundation which raised a further 27,700 written in this area as Bradford & Bingley sees the highest amount ever raised by a pin badge the development of its chosen niche areas to be campaign at Bradford & Bingley.
more beneficial to the business and the SHERRY MARACCI, SALES ASSOCIATE, PROMOTING BRADFORD & BINGLEYS SAVINGS ACCOUNTS WITH customer, meeting needs which are not well The Wallace & Gromits Childrens Foundation is THE AID OF WALLACE & GROMIT served elsewhere.
For traditional residential a national charity raising funds to improve the mortgages we continue to offer loans nanced quality of life for children in hospitals and environmental and ethical SEE impacts.
This by other banks and building societies which are hospices throughout the UK.
The Foundation involves conducting research on a company, or, amongst the most competitive on the high street.
funds an innovative range of projects to ensure most commonly, all companies within a sector, children in hospitals and hospices have a better, identifying the key risks and issues and assessing Bradford & Bingley also continues to be active brighter future.
Created in 2003, the Foundation how well the company is addressing them.
in commercial property lending and lending to has funded projects in 23 hospitals and hospices.
The Commercial Research is based primarily on the Association Property lending division provides corporate Bradford & Bingleys relationship with Wallace of British Insurers SEE disclosure guidelines and customers with loans secured by income- & Gromits Childrens Foundation will continue their assessment of how particular companies producing property or pre-let development into 2006 as the Group will take part in the or sectors are performing.
Housing Association lending provides Foundations national fundraising and awareness refers to company CSR reports and websites, funding to housing associations throughout the campaign, Wrong Trousers Day on 23 June.
analyses by FTSE4Good, the Dow Jones UK.
Housing associations are non-profit More information about the campaign and Sustainability Indices, the Ethical Investment organisations that provide affordable rented the charity can be found at their Research Service EIRIS and a number of homes for people unable to satisfy their www.
other publications in the course of research.
housing needs in the open market.
The Retail business offers its customers a wide This level of research can give our customers We have provided loans to over 120 housing choice of financial services products through confidence in the ethical and SRI funds offered associations, nancing nearly 100,000 social the branch network and direct channels.
rented homes throughout the UK.
Bradford & Bradford & Bingley has the UKs leading Bingleys lending of 2.3 billion to the housing mortgage broking business and also offers a association sector equates to over 7% of the wide choice of highly competitive products Awards received in 2005 include: Groups total mortgage balances.
from a range of providers including general insurance, wealth and personal loan products, Best Lifetime Mortgage, which are provided by third parties.
RETAIL Your Mortgage Awards Bradford & Bingleys Retail business has two Our association with Legal & General to Best Technology Provider, main segments: Savings and Distribution.
provide financial advice has grown in strength UK Equity Release Awards and depth throughout 2005.
Legal & General Savings develops and sells Bradford & Bingleys is a leading provider of Socially Responsible Best Buy-to-Let Lender, competitive range of deposit based investment Investment SRI products and our customer products through our branch network, online Mortgage Introducer Awards base has access to their range of investments.
In August, we Best Buy-to-Let Lender, launched two new savings accounts, FirstSave Legal & General aims to monitor as closely as Pink Home Loans and SmartSave, for children.
possible the companies in which they invest, Gold Standard for Online Services, and especially those in the FTSE 350, to FirstSave, an instant access account for ensure that they are identifying, assessing, Mortgage Strategy Magazine children up to the age of 12, is an ideal managing and reporting on their social, account for children to begin building up B16163 CSR BROCHURE AW 28 2 06 16:05 Page 6 6 BRADFORD & BINGLEY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005 WWW.
CO. UK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Doing the right thing in the workplace experience and helps us to respond better to As an organisation, the needs of our customer base.
We therefore Bradford & Bingley believes in take our commitment to diversity seriously and have a named Board Director, Robert Dickie, supporting and investing in its responsible for diversity issues and reporting.
Doing the right thing in Women now occupy 45% of management roles the workplace therefore 2004: 44% and 24% of senior management means working with our staff roles 2004: 23% within the Group.
Although to ensure Bradford & Bingley Rosemary Thorne, Bradford & Bingleys Group Finance Director, left the Group on is a safe, diverse and 31 December 2005, we still have one female enjoyable place to work.
Director, Louise Patten, representing 10% of BRADFORD & BINGLEY HOSTED A RECEPTION FOR the Board 2004: 22%.
QED AT THE HOUSE OF LORDS IN APRIL 2005 Our employment practices continue to reect the human rights standards enshrined in the Ethnic minorities occupy 5% of management United Nations Universal Declaration of roles 2004: 7% and 6% of senior management service, provided free of charge to employees Human Rights and the International Labour roles.
We have seen a slight drop in the number and their families, to enable discussion of any Organisation Conventions and cover such of ethnic minorities employed in the workforce issue affecting their lives at work or at home.
items as minimum working age, working hours, 2005: 10%, 2004: 11% but Bradford & Bingley health and safety and discrimination.
continues to support and work with Quest for Our Flexible Working Policy is available to all Economic Development QED.
This is an staff, not just those with children under six or Diversity and Accessibility organisation supporting the South Asian disabled children under eighteen, which is the As an employer of over 3,000 people and with community within the UK, to ensure we have legal requirement.
For Bradford & Bingley, a presence across the UK, we understand robust and fair employment policies for all staff.
exible working incorporates a wide variety of what diversity can bring to the business.
QED has helped to deliver cultural awareness Our workforce should reect the communities training and we are looking to continue this From 1 October 2006, it will be unlawful to in which we live and work and our employment during 2006.
Bradford & Bingley worked with discriminate on the basis of age in employment practices help us to deliver on this goal.
We QED to produce a series of training videos and in preparation of the legislation we have promote diversity and equality across all aspects aimed at assisting Pakistani and Bangladeshi been working with the Employers Forum on of working life and we believe it is important to men and women in Yorkshire to become Age EFA who are an independent network share best practice and success.
We provide the economically active.
The videos encourage the of leading employers who recognise the value opportunity for all staff to develop their skills taking up of jobs or self-employment, thereby of an age diverse workforce.
Valuing people of and knowledge and to enjoy fullling careers.
improving overall health and economic all ages within the workforce and regarding Bradford & Bingley is a member of the conditions, encouraging education and them all as a sustainable resource is essential Employers Forum on Disability, Employers reducing crime in their communities.
Forum on Age, Race for Opportunity and Opportunity Now.
These organisations look at We recognise that the well being of our We provide prayer rooms at our main ways to promote awareness of disability, age, employees is vital to our business.
We have operational sites for all our employees and race and gender within the workplace.
comprehensive policies agreed with the information on different religions and cultures with recognised staff union UBAC on Flexible dates of religious festivals and events is published Bradford & Bingley recognises that a diverse Working and Fair Treatment at Work.
We on our intranet site, helping to raise awareness workforce gives the company a wider range of continue to offer the condential counselling and understanding amongst all our employees.
CO. UK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005 BRADFORD & BINGLEY 7 Bradford & Bingley was awarded the two ticks Bradford & Bingley is also committed to ensuring symbol by the Employment Service in June 1995. accessibility across our product range and we This publicises our commitment to people with continue to provide customers with literature in disabilities.
Using the two ticks symbol means different formats, such as Braille, audio and large we are working towards the guidelines in the print.
Our corporate and customer facing Employment Service Code of Good Practice on websites were also relaunched in 2005, having the Employment of Disabled People.
undergone accessibility audits by the Royal National Institute for the Blind RNIB to ensure The symbol is used in our job advertisements the websites are as user friendly as possible.
and on our job application form to make it clear to potential applicants with a disability In support of our accessibility work, we have that we welcome their application on the basis extended our sponsorship with RNIB of the of their abilities and we will interview all Braille version of Money Matters, RNIBs money applicants with a disability who meet the advice magazine, for a further year.
minimum criteria for the role.
DR MOHAMMED ALI MBE, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OF Occupational Health & Safety, Business QED, AT THE QED HOUSE OF LORDS RECEPTION The symbol also demonstrates to all our Continuity and Security employees that we are serious about good Bradford & Bingley has a legal and moral employment opportunities for people with responsibility for the health and safety of its communication and co-operation on disabilities and signals to the business community staff and members of the public where they health and safety matters and the general public that the Group considers are affected by its business.
Provide a central advisory unit to support making the most of its people a priority.
management of health and safety Bradford & Bingley carried out a thorough responsibilities across the Group However, it is also important to back up review of all Health & Safety, Business Provide sufficient resources to meet the this commitment by ensuring our products Continuity and Security policies in 2005. objectives set out in this Policy Statement.
and services are accessible across all parts of our business.
The three areas were amalgamated under a This Policy Statement is reviewed by the Board new Head of Health & Safety, Business of Directors every 12 months.
We have induction loops in all branches Continuity and Security who instigated a Group and have improved wheelchair access and wide training programme, entitled A safe To help meet the objectives set out in the introduced power assisted doors across the workplace is everyones responsibility.
policy statement, Bradford & Bingley has branch network.
Bradford & Bingley also established a clear and simple structure for provides sign language and manual interpreting The Groups Health & Safety Policy Statement managing health and safety which identies services in conjunction with the Royal National was updated and a full copy was issued to the roles and responsibilities everyone has Institute for the Deaf RNID and offers every branch and department.
In it, Bradford in ensuring a safe place of work.
This was RNIDs Typetalk service.
We have undertaken & Bingley undertakes to do the following: communicated to all staff through an online further Typetalk training and will continue to training session.
In addition, staff with line do so throughout 2006.
Comply fully with relevant health and safety management responsibilities attended a legislation as it applies to Group activities half-day workshop to reinforce the learning To provide healthy and safe working messages and line management duties.
conditions and ensure work activities are undertaken so as to minimise any risk Robert Dickie, Group Operations Director, Ensure health and safety is a consideration is the nominated member of the Board of in all business decisions therefore becoming Directors responsible for Health & Safety and an integral part of the management of chairs the Group Health & Safety Committee.
the Group Provide information, training, instruction Bradford & Bingley consults with its staff, and supervision to ensure a satisfactory level management and UBAC on health and safety of health and safety competence of its staff matters through the Group Health & Safety Monitor and review health and safety Committee.
The work of the committee is performance within the organisation and supported by three specic Health & Safety develop strategies for its continual MANZOOR BAHADUR UNIVERSAL CLOTHING, forums: one for the retail branch network, one improvement LORD AHMED OF ROTHERHAM, ABEEDA MALIK MBE for the central locations in Bingley and QED, STEVEN CRAWSHAW BRADFORD & BINGLEY, Consult and liaise directly with staff and DR MOHAMMED ALI MBE QED AT THE QED HOUSE Crossatts and one for Mortgage Express.
the recognised staff union UBAC OF LORDS RECEPTION representatives to ensure effective B16163 CSR BROCHURE AW 28 2 06 16:05 Page 8 8 BRADFORD & BINGLEY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005 WWW.
CO. UK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT In November, a Near Miss Campaign was carried out across the whole of Bradford & Doing the right thing Bingley.
A near miss is an incident that could cause injury or damage but fortunately does not.
Collecting details of those incidents can help us identify and eliminate the cause before in the workplace the problem escalates and someone gets hurt.
The campaign used eye catching posters and was also run through the Groups intranet.
It was designed to ensure that all The Group Health & Safety Committees terms Escalate critical health and safety issues to staff understood the importance of reporting of reference are as follows: Bradford & Bingleys Executive Committee near misses and hazards before they result in Provide an annual report to the Board on an accident.
Review the effectiveness group-wide of the management of health and safety across Bradford & Bingleys Health & Safety Policy, Bradford & Bingley.
The campaign was a great success, both in its safety organisation and arrangements increasing the number of near misses reported Review and endorse Bradford & Bingleys Each Health & Safety Forums terms of and in the value of those reports.
Some quite strategy for the promotion of a positive reference within the area of responsibility potentially serious issues were reported and health and safety culture across the Group represented at that forum are as follows: remedial action taken.
Receive and review reports from supporting Health & Safety forums and act on Monitor the implementation of Bradford & The process of reporting was simplied as all recommendations where appropriate Bingleys Health & Safety Policy, its safety staff had to do was report a near miss via the Monitor the standard of health and safety organisation and arrangements dedicated Health & Safety Advice Line.
The competency across Bradford & Bingley Implement Bradford & Bingleys strategy for Group Health & Safety team then cothrough an ongoing review of the Groups the promotion of a positive health and ordinated any action that was needed to delivery of health and safety training, safety culture across the Group resolve the incident or provide advice on information and supervision Receive and review reports from forum action the staff member could take.
Assess the effectiveness of Bradford & members and discuss and decide on suitable Bingleys management of health and safety actions where appropriate During the past year, we have revised and through the review of management Monitor the delivery of health and safety updated our arrangements for managing an information such as incident reports, accident training, information and supervision incident of kidnap or extortion.
This involved data, near misses, absence rates, etc.
Assess the effectiveness of the management putting in place improved prevention measures Monitor the level of compliance with of health and safety through the review of and response procedures.
Bradford & Bingleys Health & Safety Policy management information such as incident and relevant health and safety legislation reports, accident data, near misses, absence Work continued on the ongoing review of through a review of audit and inspection rates, etc.
the effectiveness of the Groups general results and recommendations Monitor the level of compliance with security measures in bank branches which Receive and review reports from Enforcing Bradford & Bingleys Health & Safety Policy resulted in the lowest ever incidence rate Authorities and act on recommendations and relevant health and safety legislation for raid and robbery, with only three branches where appropriate through a review of audit and inspection being involved in such an event over the last results and recommendations 12 months.
Receive and review reports from Enforcing Authorities and act on recommendations In 2006, Bradford & Bingley will be delivering a where appropriate Stress Management Plan and Road Risk Provide a report to the Group Health & Management Plan together with associated Safety Committee on the management of training across the Group.
health and safety within the area of responsibility represented at that forum.
In addition, we are currently in discussions with Bradford Council Environmental Health In addition, a dedicated Health & Safety regarding the establishment of a formal Lead Advice Line was set up for any member of Authority relationship with them.
This is an staff to request information or advice from the arrangement where we can agree various BRADFORD & BINGLEY CONTINUES TO WORK WITH RNIB TO PRODUCE A BRAILLE VERSION OF THE Health & Safety Team.
This was made policies with them locally thus ensuring FINANCIAL ADVICE MAGAZINE, MONEY MATTERS accessible by telephone, fax or email.
consistent interpretation across the country.
CO. UK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005 BRADFORD & BINGLEY 9 Staff representation & share ownership The staff union UBAC has sole recognition Health & Safety Management good practice is set out in the rights with all parts of Bradford & Bingley to Health & Safety Executive HSE guidance note Successful negotiate matters relating to staff terms and conditions of employment, including pay and H&S Management HSG65.
Below is the HSG65 map that contractual negotiations.
All employees are free Bradford & Bingleys Health & Safety team follow to join UBAC, and currently 52% are members 2004: 46%.
UBAC is an independent trade union in accordance with the Trade Union and Labour Relations Act 1974.
POLICY We continue to encourage employees to benefit from the Groups success through share schemes.
Currently, 39% of employees hold at least one Sharesave account 2004: 52%, ORGANISATION enabling them to save over a period of years with the prospect of buying Bradford & Bingley shares at a discount.
Staff survey and feedback We are committed to ensuring that we create AUDIT IMPLEMENTATION a safe working environment which encourages openness, honesty and mutual respect, and where colleagues can constructively challenge and ask questions.
PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT To encourage this, we again ran our staff opinion survey which was carried out in September, giving all staff an opportunity to feed back in confidence their views and opinions of Bradford & Bingley.
The survey REVIEW was available to complete either online or on paper.
Control Link Staff were given a range of attitudinal questions to answer under eight section headings: Information Link Direction and Communication Working at Bradford & Bingley Training and Development Company Culture Customer Focus and Quality Management Pay and Benets Overall The survey contained 66 questions, the majority of which were of the Likert format, i. e. presented in the form of statements with which staff could agree or disagree on a four point scale.
The results were then assessed against the ETSM3 benchmark score.
AS PART OF OUR NEAR MISS CAMPAIGN, A FAKE ONE TON WEIGHT WAS SUSPENDED ABOVE THE ATRIUM IN OUR HEAD OFFICE BUILDING B16163 CSR BROCHURE AW 28 2 06 16:05 Page 10 10 BRADFORD & BINGLEY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005 WWW.
CO. UK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Doing the right thing in the community MICHAEL VAUGHAN, YORKSHIRE COUNTY CRICKET CLUB AND ANDREW MERRICK, BRADFORD & BINGLEY, AT THE LAUNCH OF THE BRADFORD & BINGLEY INDOOR CRICKET CENTRE we gave a larger focus to our support of charities for our work with West Midlands Business In 2005, there was an increase and organisations throughout West Yorkshire, Action on Homelessness, awarded under the in Bradford & Bingleys specically in Bradford and the Aire Valley where Collaborative Action category.
We have also worked community programme to in conjunction with a number of nationally Bradford & Bingley has worked with both of 1,320,612 2004: 1,295,639 known sporting organisations to help increase these organisations for a number of years.
the grass roots sports opportunities available continuing for a sixth across West Y orkshire.
Shelter is the UKs national campaigning charity consecutive year the for homeless and badly housed people.
They Preventing and alleviating the causes provide free, professional and independent investment of over 1 million of homelessness advice, advocacy and support to over 100,000 in the communities in which In this category, Bradford & Bingley was people per year.
extremely proud to receive two Big Ticks in the Business in the Community Awards Since 1999, we have supported Shelterline, Preventing and alleviating the causes of for Excellence.
One was for our partnership Shelters freephone housing advice line and since homelessness continues to be our main with Shelter, awarded under the Healthy 2001 we have been the headline sponsors.
In corporate area of support.
However, in 2005, Communities category, and the second was 2004, we announced a two year extension to B16163 CSR BROCHURE AW 28 2 06 16:05 Page 11 WWW.
CO. UK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005 BRADFORD & BINGLEY 11 our sponsorship and this is now our longest In addition, staff at our Crossatts and Barnet running community investment partnership.
Head Ofce locations held collections and donated over 700 books between them.
In In 2005, Shelter nalised its internal review of total, the books donated helped raise services and the Shelterline name was retired thousands of pounds for Shelter as well as and the service was brought under the main generating much local media interest.
The service is now known purely as Shelters freephone housing advice line but Launched in 1998, Business Action on now acts as the gateway to the majority of Homelessness BAOH is a unique partnership Shelters services.
between leading businesses, homelessness agencies and the Government.
BAOH aims to Despite this increased remit, we have break the vicious cycle of no job, no home, continued to work with Shelter to ensure that through helping homeless people to nd DAVID FORD SHELTER, RICHARD WILSON ACTOR AND STEVEN CRAWSHAW BRADFORD & BINGLEY their service is a preventative one rather than employment and achieve independent living.
AT THE SHELTER RECEPTION HELD AT THE a reactive one.
Last year, the percentage of Bradford & Bingley is a national member of INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN OCTOBER 2005 preventative calls remained constant at 63% BAOH, and our Group Chief Executive sits on 2004: 64% 2003: 40%.
savings and provide even lower interest loans.
We continue to support Shelter in other, nonAt a regional level, we are on the steering At present there is waiting list of over two financial, ways as well as our sponsorship.
In June, group of West Midlands Business Action on months just for a first appointment but the we launched Shelters Summer Sizzlers campaign, Homelessness helping to deliver a number of money from the Bond will enable more families where we asked 50 celebrities to choose their programmes and projects across the region.
Further details can be found favourite summer holiday read, and then donate at the www.
These signed books Ready for Work is the key programme run by were then used as prizes to encourage the public BAOH.
Working closely with local homelessness Supporting charities and organisations to donate their own summer holiday books to organisations, BAOH identies people who are throughout West Yorkshire be resold in Shelter branches.
Over 100 Shelter ready for work but perhaps lack confidence or Bradford & Bingley was formed in 1964 from shops and Bradford & Bingley branches took part have been out of the workplace for a long time.
the merger of Bradford Equitable Building in the campaign, acting as collection points for Homeless clients are given the opportunity to Society and Bingley Building Society and as the publics donations.
re-enter the job market, gain professional such, we still have a strong association to training, a minimum of two weeks work Bradford and the Aire Valley region of West placements, ongoing job coaching and a Yorkshire where Bingley can be found.
Prior to the placements, the clients attend workshops run by businesses During 2005, we continued to strengthen our and the homelessness agencies which help links with many community groups across build confidence and personal interaction skills.
West Yorkshire and increased the portfolio of grass roots sports projects that we support.
Bradford & Bingley has run a number of these courses in the West Midlands and provided the These projects were supported with a mix of venues for courses in Yorkshire during 2005. financial support and employee involvement, both inside and outside of work time.
The staff Following the success of the New Shefeld at our two head ofce buildings, in Bingley and Employment Bond in 2004, Bradford & Bingley Crossatts, voted on a choice of charity for the agreed to become trustees and registrars in year and picked the Paediatric Unit at Airedale another initiative, the Shefeld Investment Hospital.
Throughout the year, staff organised Bond which Shefeld Council are promoting dress down days, rafes, a gala dinner and to their staff across the city.
many other fundraising activities which raised over 5,500 for the Paediatric Unit.
The Shefeld Investment Bond, run by charity Citylife, will support vital work across the City We added a third school in Bingley to our of Shefeld.
The money raised will support reading volunteer scheme.
Bradford & Bingley not-for-profit initiatives working to help those sends volunteers into the schools to spend in debt in Shefeld, providing face-to-face time reading on a one-to-one basis with pupils STEVEN CRAWSHAW, BRADFORD & BINGLEY AND ROBBIE PAUL, BRADFORD BULLS RUGBY money advice, affordable loans, help with debt over a ten week period.
During this time we LEAGUE, TOOK PART IN SHELTERS SUMMER restructuring, teaching financial literacy and have seen reading ages improve dramatically SIZZLERS CAMPAIGN supporting credit unions who encourage and, crucially, the improvement is maintained.
B16163 CSR BROCHURE AW 28 2 06 16:05 Page 12 12 BRADFORD & BINGLEY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005 WWW.
CO. UK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT & Bingley Indoor Cricket Centre and Indoor Cricket Leagues.
Over 3,000 school children Doing the right thing visit the centre each year and the centre runs courses at evenings and weekends, as well as hosting nine Bradford & Bingley Indoor Cricket Leagues for ages from under 9s to adults.
The in the community partnership between Yorkshire County Cricket Club and Bradford & Bingley will aim to highlight minority cricket and will place particular emphasis on disabled, black, ethnic, and womens cricket by forming specialist leagues and encouraging other cricket related activity in the centre.
Bradford & Bingley is also pleased to support its namesake, Bradford & Bingley Rugby Football Club who are based in Bingley.
Bradford & Bingley RFC is a semi-professional rugby union team who play in National Division 3 North.
This year, we helped to fund a new 250 seater stand which we ofcially opened at the first home game of the season.
However, the largest project that we announced in West Yorkshire was our partnership with the National Museum of Photography, Film & Television NMPFT in Bradford.
The NMPFT is the most visited national museum outside London, attracting nearly a million visitors each year.
In October 2005, The NMPFT announced that Experience TV, a new 3 million interactive KATHRYN BLACKER NMPFT, ALISON BIDDULPH OBJECTIVE TWO EUROPEAN SECRETARIAT, MIKE HAMMOND gallery exploring the world of television, would BRADFORD & BINGLEY, JIM FARMERY YORKSHIRE FORWARD, FIONA SPIERS HERITAGE LOTTERY FUND AT THE LAUNCH OF EXPERIENCE TV AT THE NATIONAL MUSEUM OF PHOTOGRAPHY FILM & TELEVISION open in Summer 2006 with the support of funding from Bradford & Bingley.
Our Community Action Teams have association with Bingley Methodist Church and continued to encourage and co-ordinate West Yorkshire police.
Because of our support employee involvement across Bingley and of the Bradford Bulls community programme Crossatts and also at Mortgage Express in we were able to take along the Superleague Barnet, Hertfordshire.
trophy, which Bradford Bulls Rugby League Club had just won.
The two teams consist of staff from across all functions of the business and a representative Bradford Bulls is just one of the sports from the Community Affairs team.
Each team organisations whose community or grass roots meets on a monthly basis to consider requests programmes we support.
During the past from local charities and community groups and twelve months we have entered into, or makes small grants of about 300 on average.
renewed, agreements with Bradford City During 2005, 87 charities received funding in Football in the Community, Bradford Bulls the Bingley and Barnet areas.
Foundation, Yorkshire Lawn Tennis Association and Yorkshire County Cricket Club.
The biggest project that the Bingley Community Action Team took on in 2005 Our partnership with Yorkshire County THE NEW BRADFORD & BINGLEY STAND WAS was funding the set-up and launch of a Cricket Club saw Michael Vaughan, the OPENED AT BRADFORD & BINGLEY RFC IN 2005 new youth club for the Bingley area, run in England cricket captain, launched the Bradford B16163 CSR BROCHURE AW 28 2 06 16:05 Page 13 WWW.
CO. UK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005 BRADFORD & BINGLEY 13 St Basils is the largest charity outside London working with young people who are homeless or in danger of homelessness.
We try to take a holistic view of the problem not only providing accommodation but also family mediation, employment and education services, and with our Schools Training and Mentoring Programme IAN ORMONDROYD FOOTBALL IN THE COMMUNITY, STEVEN CRAWSHAW BRADFORD & BINGLEY AND JIM BROWN BRADFORD CITY FC AT THE RELAUNCH OF THE BRADFORD CITY FOOTBALL IN THE STaMP we are taking our message that COMMUNITY SCHEME homelessness should never be a accepted part of growing up to the next generation.
As well as allowing the Museum to display a Bradford & Bingley also matches employee substantial part of its world class television donations through the payroll-giving We also participate in the Ready for Work collection in some cases for the first time programme, Give As You Earn.
We continued scheme run by Business Action on Experience TV will allow visitors to walk into a to promote the scheme to new and existing Homelessness.
We have found Bradford & replica studio and nd out how television is employees via online and internal promotions Bingley to be valuable partners in this made, as well as trying their hand at reading and have seen an increase both in take up and scheme, as they provide valuable training the news or presenting the weather.
We now have 9.6% of and support to our clients who are our workforce donating via Give As You Earn preparing to re-enter employment.
From John Logie Bairds original apparatus to a 2004: 8.8% and have set ourselves a target to Jimll Fix It badge, Experience TV will contain increase this to 10% in 2006.
Bradford & To do all this costs money and we rely on many of the objects that make up the story of Bingley matched 74,628 of all employee charitable donations to provide more than TV.
Important televisions and studio cameras will donations 2004: 65,900.
To keep up this sit alongside the likes of Wallace & Gromit and income it is vital that we communicate the Play School toys reunited with their Our branches continue to raise funds for local well with all our donors.
Quality is a key, famous windows to create the only gallery of community groups and again a special mention when our newsletter hits the doormat or its kind in Europe with hundreds of objects from should be made of Margaret Carlyle the desk it will be competing for attention NMPFTs collections on display.
The production branch manager at Stockport.
Not content with glossy catalogues, full colour zone will include a working quiz show set, with being the highest fundraiser of 2004, this brochures and offers of everything from demonstrating everything from studio lighting year she arranged for the Managing Director of holidays in the sun to cheap loans.
effects to vision mixing, while a virtual studio will Retail to take part in a Jail & Bail event, where allow visitors to nd themselves in various he was held in handcuffs until he had raised Bradford & Bingley help us to compete by scenarios that reect modern TV techniques.
over 3,000 for Christies Against Cancer.
printing our quarterly newsletter for us, with full colour cover and high quality gloss Employee involvement Overall contributions from employee involvement paper we can look as good as everyone Bradford & Bingley continues to support rose to 326,871 2004: 226,406 and we else, without the expense.
Here is another employee involvement, in particular, through expect more opportunities to arise in 2006. example of Corporate Social Responsibility supporting their fundraising activities.
at work: making a difference to the future Breakdown of community investment programme of thousands of young people who might All employees are able to apply for funds to otherwise struggle.
Management time match their own fundraising efforts for charity 8.5% in a scheme which matches the first 250 of Gifts in kind For more information on St Basils please funds raised per employee.
During the year, 1.5% visit www.
uk 85 employees received matched funding Employee time 2004: 147 totalling 19,151.
25% Blair Kessler Although this is a decrease from 2004, it Cash HEAD OF FUNDRAISING AND CORPORATE RELATIONS should be remembered that staff levels were 65% lower in 2005 compared to most of 2004.
B16163 CSR BROCHURE AW 28 2 06 16:05 Page 14 14 BRADFORD & BINGLEY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005 WWW.
CO. UK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Doing the right thing in the environment WASTE MANAGEMENT CLIMATE CHANGE & In 2005, Bradford & Bingley The main waste streams produced by Bradford ENERGY CONSUMPTION built on the work carried out in & Bingley consist of general ofce waste, Principle uses of energy include heating, condential paper waste and IT equipment.
our independent environmental lighting and air conditioning.
audit of 2004 to deliver In 2005, we have reported on a weekly basis Mowlem Technical Services are in the second increased environmental the amount of waste generated and the year of a three year facilities management percentage recycled.
In 2006, we have set a contract for Bradford & Bingley.
target for 65% of our waste to be recycled.
management forms part of the service, which is being delivered nationally via a team of In preparation for the EU Accounts Condential waste is collected by Hays Secure mobile engineers checking on site controls and Modernisation Directive, we have worked with Destruction where it is shredded.
It is then sent consumption measured centrally.
Trucost, an independent environmental research to Kimberley Clark where it is turned into pulp organisation to identify the Environmental Key and then into toilet paper.
In an example of This year we have carried out analysis on our Performance Indicators relevant to Bradford & true recycling we now use Kimberley Clark to energy consumption per employee.
To do this, we have worked from the supply toilet paper at all our central locations.
advice from The Carbon Neutral Company consultation document Environmental Key formerly known as Future Forests we initially Performance Indicators Reporting Guidelines In addition to the condential waste, there are set a target of 3 tonnes of CO per employee 2 for UK Business published by the Department of procedures in place to recycle paper, plastic from energy consumption.
We have achieved this Environment, Food & Rural Affairs in 2005. cups, toners, metals, IT components and target for the last four years so we will be looking mobile telephones at central locations, whilst at this target in 2006 to see if it is still realistic.
Following this analysis, we are reporting for the our branches recycle toners, IT components first time on climate change CO emissions and mobile telephones.
2 We will also be looking to widen the scope of and waste amount and percentage recycled.
climate change reporting to include transport.
In addition to this, we continue to report and comment on the following areas we have identied as being significant issues to Bradford & Bingley.
CO. UK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005 BRADFORD & BINGLEY 15 WATER All water supplied to Bradford & Bingley sites is from mains supply.
Water consumption is measured and calculated on an annual basis using meter readings.
Water conservation measures have been put in place in central facilities to help reduce water consumption.
We have also analysed our water consumption THE HOCKERTON HOUSING PROJECT IS THE on a usage per employee basis.
We note that UKS FIRST EARTH SHELTERED, SELF-SUFFICIENT ECOLOGICAL HOUSING DEVELOPMENT water consumption is now higher per head than it was in 2003 but will conduct further analysis during 2006 to investigate this.
Whilst overall consumption is falling, in 2006, we are targeting a further decrease in our overall Hockerton 3 consumption but are keeping a target of 14m water usage per employee.
We will also carry out a benchmarking exercise against other Housing Project financial services companies to compare their water usage per employee.
The Hockerton Housing Project HHP is an The development is located on a ten hectare innovative residential sustainable development site that was previously essentially agricultural.
TRANSPORTATION in the village of Hockerton near Southwell, The large area has allowed incorporation of For 2005, we have publicly reported our Nottinghamshire.
It has been designed as one features that enable the occupants to live in a business mileage for the first time.
We will of the first zero energy residential systems in sustainable and self-sufficient way.
This examine trend data for 2006 before we the UK reducing life cycle energy to a includes crop cultivation and the rearing of consider setting future targets.
minimum and are amongst the most energy small animals.
It has also allowed for large efficient, purpose built dwellings in Europe.
water catchment for the homes and waste We have changed from a company car scheme disposal via a reed-bed system.
to a car ownership scheme for staff who need a Maximum use of benign, organic and recycled car for business use.
Under the car ownership materials has been made in the construction In response to increasing visitors, a new scheme, the cost of a car is calculated according and the development is designed to be, to a learning resource centre has recently been to its whole life cost instead of just a two or large extent, self-sufficient.
The houses are constructed by project members, which three year initial cost.
This has meant that cars earth covered and have passive solar heating includes a dedicated audio-visual room, with strong residual values cost signicantly less without a space heating system.
A wind seminar facilities and permanent exhibitions.
to staff and encourages the purchase of cars turbine and photovoltaic system provide all of The building itself is built to similar high with efficient fuel consumption gures.
the energy required to run the homes.
The environmental standards as the homes, water and sewage system is self-contained.
including meeting the zero heating and The scheme has been introduced as part of zero CO standards.
It also receives most 2 the Supply Chain Development Programme The homes consist of a terrace of five single of its energy from a second wind turbine and aims to improve cost effectiveness, offer storey dwellings which are earth-sheltered at recently installed.
greater exibility, as well as giving personal the rear, such that the ground surface slopes choice to participating staff.
and blends smoothly into the eld at the HHP provides school visits for National back.
Each house is 6m deep with a 19m Curriculum Key Stage 2 pupils and The Groups video-conferencing facilities south-facing conservatory running the full Bradford & Bingley has funded a programme continue to be in high demand and reduce the width of each dwelling.
A repeated modular of visits in 2005, as well as funding the number of journeys between West Yorkshire bay system of 3.2m in width was used for development of the associated Resource and London for meetings.
Most of the internal Pack which provides teachers with a has also been used for an increasing number rooms have 3m high French windows that summary of all the activities and links to of external meetings in 2005. open to the conservatory.
Those rooms that the National Curriculum.
This partnership are not so dependent on natural light, such is to be further developed in 2006 to We have introduced a shuttle bus service as utility and bathing areas, are located deliver the education projects to Key Stage between our Bingley and Crossatts Head towards the rear of the homes.
Ofce locations to cut down on the number B16163 CSR BROCHURE AW 28 2 06 16:05 Page 16 16 BRADFORD & BINGLEY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005 WWW.
CO. UK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PERFORMANCE AND TARGETS Following feedback from stakeholders, we are Doing the right thing now starting to set performance targets in the eld of environmental performance.
We also review existing targets to ensure relevance.
in the environment Our targets for 2005 relating to our environmental policy were: Improve staff awareness of environmental issues of journeys between the two buildings and we PROPERTY DESIGN AND Achieved.
By using the Groups intranet we have continued to run a lunchtime bus service provided information to staff on Bradford & MANAGEMENT for staff from our location in Crossatts, West Bingleys environmental performance and Bradford & Bingley continues to incorporate a Yorkshire to local shopping centres.
gave suggestions how individual members of number of environmental criteria into its staff could help improve our performance.
Detailed In 2006, we are launching a car sharing In addition, we set up an internal email specications for refurbishment works include: scheme in conjunction with Bradford District basket for staff to send in their suggestions & Metropolitan Council.
and a number of suggestions have been energy efficient design and operation of taken forward comfort cooling and air conditioning systems PROCUREMENT AND Encourage feedback of staff suggestions to recycled vinyl or bitumen backed carpet improve environmental performance tiles used instead of vinyl backed tiles SUPPLY CHAIN Achieved.
As detailed above, the use of the manufactured from new, where polyvinyl Bradford & Bingley continues to work in line with email basket has seen an increase in the chloride PVC would have to be used in the Financial Services Purchasing Forum FSPF number of staff suggestions the manufacturing process collaborative environmental best practice Assess new branch design to measure energy efficient high frequency uorescent principles.
This document, developed by the reduction in energy consumption lighting financial industry, outlines six purchasing principles In progress.
The new branch design roll-out wood and wood products purchased from consistent with environmental best practice.
programme has only taken place in a small sustainable forestry.
Bradford & Bingleys progress against these six number of branches.
Trend data is still being principles is detailed on page 23 of this report.
developed to determine how much more CARBON NEUTRAL efficient the new design is With around a thousand suppliers, accounting Bradford & Bingley continues to see Carbon Identify and assess key performance for an annual cost of approximately 170 Neutral as a positive way to offset the indicator data trends million, Bradford & Bingley has now introduced Carbon emissions from our business.
We have started to report on a new Procurement Policy, which became KPIs per employee to give a better effective in September 2005.
The policy Our goal of making more departments indication of trends and are looking at balances the need for line management Carbon Neutral in 2005 was achieved when setting performance targets responsibility and accountability with the we made the Insurance Marketing, Internal Work with Group Internal Audit to agree benets derived from a Group approach to Communications and Group Strategy a formal audit process procurement.
Under the policy, the Group has departments Carbon Neutral to add to the Achieved.
Internal Audit are now carrying collated information on all its suppliers in CSR, Investor Relations, Public Relations and out Health & Safety and Environmental relation to environmental policies and ethical Housing Finance Departments who were audits at branches across the Group when working practices in order to develop a already Carbon Neutral.
they carry out the financial audits.
It also ensures that the supplier risk proles are visible to Bradford & In a sign of his commitment to leadership in this Targets for 2006 are: Bingley and managed at the appropriate level.
area, Bradford & Bingleys Group Chief Executive also made his ofce Carbon Neutral.
3 tonnes of CO generated by energy use 2 Printing managers Williams Lea purchase print per employee services on behalf of Bradford & Bingley.
All We continue to use the Carbon Neutral 65% of waste recycled products purchased are derived from Company formerly known as Future Forests 3 14m of water usage per employee sustainable managed forestry plantation crop.
as our partner for the programme of tree To launch an employee car sharing scheme planting to offset the carbon emissions.
and encourage use To identify further performance targets To identify further opportunities for carbon offset schemes.
CO. UK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005 BRADFORD & BINGLEY 17 Our results MARKETPLACE RESULTS 2005 2004 2003 2002 Overall Customer Satisfaction for customers with: Savings Product 97% 96% 94% Savings Service 97% 95% 95% Regulated Products 96% 97% 99% General Insurance New Customer 98% 97% 94% Mortgage Broking Service 93% 95% 94% Overall Customer response on using Bradford & Bingley Group Likelihood of being a Bradford & Bingley Group customer in 12 months time 94% 91% 89% Likelihood of using Bradford & Bingley Group for another financial product or service 81% 75% 72% Likelihood of recommending Bradford & Bingley Group to a friend 77% 65% 64% Average time taken to pay suppliers 12 days 14 days 15 days 20 days Number of customer complaints 24,291 21,725 17,057 13,006 Percentage of customer complaints upheld 74% 66% 29% Percentage of customer complaints submitted to the Ombudsman upheld 30% 27% 27% 25% Average time taken to deal with customer complaints non-regulated 24 days 22 days 27 days 27 days - gures not available - denition of satisfied is customers answering extremely, very or fairly satisfied with Bradford & Bingley - measure is number of customers answering probably or definitely - the surveys were suspended in their current format during 2005.
A more holistic customer satisfaction programme is to be launched in 2006 and will give comparable measures.
B16163 CSR BROCHURE AW 28 2 06 16:05 Page 18 18 BRADFORD & BINGLEY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005 WWW.
CO. UK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our results WORKPLACE RESULTS 2005 2004 2003 2002 Total employees 3,043 3,152 7,748 7,750 Analysis of workforce by percentage: Women non management 71% 72% 68% 77% Women management 45% 44% 36% 33% Women overall 65% 65% 61% 68% Ethnic minorities non management 12% 13% 14% 10% Ethnic minorities management 5% 7% 9% 7% Ethnic minorities overall 10% 11% 13% 9% Average age male 36.3 years 37.5 years 37.6 years Average age female 37.1 years 38.1 years 38.4 years Average age overall 36.8 years 37.9 years 38.1 years Average length of service 7.1 years Staff absenteeism 4.7% 5.4% 4.5% Staff turnover 30.1% 26.5% 29.2% 28.8% Number of fatalities at work 0 Number of reportable incidents 9 Number of accidents 131 Number of near misses reported 57 Days lost due to accidents 304 Days lost due to stress 5797 Value of training 1.5 million 1.6 million 7.2 million 7.0 million Percentage of staff represented by recognised trade union UBAC 52% 46% 40% 39% Percentage of staff participating in Sharesave scheme 39% 52% 52% 51% Percentage of Bradford & Bingley Group capitalisation owned by staff other than Directors 0.97% 1.47% 1.81% 0.93% - gures not available - in accordance with A Guide to the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases & Dangerous Occurrences RIDDOR Regulations 1995 from the Health & Safety Executive B16163 CSR BROCHURE AW 28 2 06 16:05 Page 19 WWW.
CO. UK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005 BRADFORD & BINGLEY 19 COMMUNITY RESULTS 2005 2004 2003 2002 Total Community Investment Programme 1,320,612 1,295,639 1,024,077 1,207,332 Total Community Investment Programme as a percentage of pre-tax profit 0.43% 0.46% 0.39% 0.51% Total Community Investment Programme spend per employee 433.27 406.16 132.17 155.78 Breakdown of community programme as follows: Cash 858,935 876,933 732,637 978,314 Employee Time 326,871 226,406 120,740 72,450 Gifts in Kind 21,100 87,300 52,200 52,200 Management Time 113,706 105,000 118,500 104,368 Employee Matched Funding 19,151 26,908 24,770 20,741 Employee Matched Give As You Earn 74,628 65,900 49,335 47,955 National Appeals money raised 340,909 329,459 56,971 35,739 ENVIRONMENTAL RESULTS 2005 2004 2003 2002 Energy Consumption # Tonnes CO generated Branches 4,934 tonnes 5,126 tonnes 9,509 tonnes 9,179 tonnes 2 # Tonnes CO generated Central Locations 4,147 tonnes 4,064 tonnes 4,512 tonnes 4,226 tonnes 2 # Tonnes CO generated per employee 2.98 tonnes 2.88 tonnes 1.81 tonnes 1.73 tonnes 2 Electricity Use Branches 9,439,816 kWh 9,827,536 kWh 19,278,274 kWh 18,511,666 kWh Electricity Use Central Locations 7,673,383 kWh 7,342,294 kWh 8,513,753 kWh 7,744,006 kWh Gas Use Branches 4,607,399 kWh 4,736,925 kWh 6,512,490 kWh 6,417,592 kWh Gas Use Central Locations 4,456,115 kWh 4,774,301 kWh 4,481,710 kWh 4,715,730 kWh 3 3 3 3 Water Usage Branches 23,992 m 25,529 m 42,017 m 44,469 m 3 3 3 3 Water Usage Central Locations 19,300 m 20,645 m 25,037 m 25,428 m 3 3 3 3 Water Usage per employee 14 m 14 m 9 m 9 m Paper Usage 370 tonnes 518 tonnes 1,048 tonnes 1,000 tonnes Solid Waste Central Locations 494 tonnes Percentage recycled 62% Business mileage 1,903,845 miles Position in the Business in the Environment Index 108th 153rd 120th 169th - estimated gure for the year because of the high number of estimated readings.
Subsequent reporting includes fully metered annual gures - gure not available # - gure calculated using conversion tables supplied by the Department of Environment, Food & Rural Affairs B16163 CSR BROCHURE AW 28 2 06 16:05 Page 20 20 BRADFORD & BINGLEY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005 WWW.
CO. UK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our environmental policy Bradford & Bingley recognises that its business activities have an impact on the environment.
We are committed to minimising this impact by good management and continually improving our environmental performance.
Our environmental policy and benchmarking against FSPF environmental principles Our environmental policy recognises this by: at the design stage of new buildings and refurbishments Monitoring and controlling energy costs Proactive involvement with communities and consumption local to our business operations Monitoring and controlling water costs Setting targets for environmental and consumption improvements, reporting on the results Minimising materials resource consumption, Incorporating specic environmental recycling where practicable, offering resources requirements into contracts with principal that can be reused to suitable agencies suppliers Specifying the use of products from Reviewing the Groups environmental policy sustainable sources where practicable on an annual basis to ensure it remains Compliance with current environmental relevant to the business legislation and awareness of environmental Having a Board Director responsible for directives and guidelines environmental performance Raising environmental awareness among Consulting with stakeholders on our staff and our suppliers environmental performance to identify areas Promoting the use of public transport, of weakness or areas for improvement.
cycling and walking, reducing the number of private vehicles used by staff for commuting We are also committed to reporting on our Minimising the impact of our buildings on performance.
We have therefore decided to local environments, by efficient space publish our performance against the six planning and giving due consideration to environmental principles designed by the energy and environmental good practices Financial Services Purchasing Forum.
CO. UK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005 BRADFORD & BINGLEY 21 Environmental principles Principles Benets Benchmark Levels Bradford & Bingley Performance Principle 1 To build the environment into Level 3 Best Practice Environmental Resource individuals objectives 1 or more resources, formal objectives, clear reporting lines with Reporting Structure buy-in from the company top executive board director level Enable you to get buy-in from the board executive level & create a Level 2 Good Practice formal backing for the issue 1 part time resource with formal objectives and reporting structure in place to a manager To create the basis for a recognised process to be put in Level 1 Minimum Practice place regarding the 1 part time dedicated resource, but no formal objective or environment reporting lines Principle 2 To get buy-in from all business Level 3 Best Practice Environmental Policy areas and ensure compliance Environmental Policy endorsed by top level execs, reviewed DEF: This is a statement of annually citing specic environmental targets and objectives To ensure your business is the aims and principles of a which are also reviewed annually aware of existing environmental company in relation to its overall legislation Level 2 Good Practice environmental performance, Environmental Policy supported by annually reviewed To publicly identify corporate including compliance with all targets KPIs identifying more specic objectives to help environmental targets and relevant regulatory requirements achieve the targets set objectives and giving rise to company Level 1 Minimum Practice environmental objectives Broad environmental policy recognising the broad impact and targets.
your business has on the environment and identifying broad behavioural objectives that will reduce this impact Principle 3 Enables you to have a clear Level 3 Best Practice Environmental Management and formally recognised process System certied to a recognise standard i. e. ISO14001 or EMAS System for managing your Level 2 Good Practice DEF: An environmental environmental programme System follows the principles of, but not certied to, a management system is part of Enables your environmental recognised standard the overall management system programme to reach a higher Level 1 Minimum Practice which includes the organisation level by creating the recognised System working towards a following principles of recognised structure, responsibilities, management structure and standard practices, processes and processes resources for determining and If you choose to go for implementing the certication gives you external environmental policy.
recognition and verication of your system, providing additional reputational benefit B16163 CSR BROCHURE AW 28 2 06 16:05 Page 22 22 BRADFORD & BINGLEY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005 WWW.
CO. UK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Environmental principles Principles Benets Benchmark Levels Bradford & Bingley Performance Principle 4 Sets out clear targets against which Level 3 Best Practice Environmental Performance you can measure your progress Sets SMART, quantitative targets in relation to performance Targets with regards to your suppliers improvements DEF: Environmental Enables you to have a clear view Level 2 Good Practice performance targets are the on what constitutes good bad Openly committed to continual improvement beyond legal detailed performance environmental performance and compliance although targets largely qualitative requirements, quantied practice both for your own Level 1 Minimum Practice wherever practicable, applicable environmental programme and Committed to minimum legal requirements to the organisation or parts that of your suppliers thereof, which arise from the Enables you to set in place a environmental objectives and process ow of how you wish which need to be met in order to achieve the environmental to achieve those objectives.
performance targets Principle 5 To raise the prole of the Level 3 Best Practice Employee Environmental environment as an issue in Three or more sessions per annum at least one conducted by Training your company an external party to include what is specified in Levels 1 & 2 DEF: Employee environmental but to identify objectives and targets that will help achieve To help employees comply with training should communicate the future aspirations and understand the purpose of specic means of achieving the objectives and targets in the Level 2 Good Practice environmental objectives and environmental policy Bi-annual sessions by internal or external resource s targets.
It includes a description of including what is specified in Level 1, but also identifying Brand shows that you are the measures taken or envisaged future aspirations taking the issue of your to achieve such objectives and, companys environmental Level 1 Minimum Practice where appropriate, the deadlines An annual session by internal resource s introducing the set for implementation of objectives and targets set out in the environmental policy such measures.
Principle 6 To ensure your policy is focusing Level 3 Best Practice Environmental Auditing on the relevant environmental External audit to be carried out annually in addition to internal DEF: An internal environmental issues for your business audits to include and expand upon the six principles and audit is a management tool include other areas i. e. the performance of suppliers and your To gain expertise from an comprising a systematic suppliers use of environmentally viable products external source on the documented, periodic and environment Level 2 Good Practice objective evaluation of the Environmental minimum standards to be set and included in To help identify any areas performance of the system and regular internal audit processes for improvement or future processes designed to protect aspirations Level 1 Minimum Practice the environment.
It can be Environment to be included as an area for monitoring in any carried out either internally or internal audit process by an independent consultant.
CO. UK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005 BRADFORD & BINGLEY 23 Bradford & Bingley provided access to head Areas for ongoing improvement ofce records and data required to undertake Few formal meetings exist that bring the assurance process and Bureau Veritas is together all CSR drivers within the business.
confident that no material has knowingly Whilst this does not seem to hinder CSR been withheld.
activity, such a meeting could act as a useful means by which to capture additional CSR Excluded from our work are activities activity and to prioritise existing activity in a outside the reporting period unless stated in more consultative manner.
This would also the report, and statements of opinion, belief enable a greater degree of documenting of or aspiration.
CSR roles, responsibilities and actions.
VERIFICATION STATEMENT Although CSR data is collected throughout the Bradford & Bingley has commissioned Bureau In addition to this statement, an internal year by various people in the business, there is Veritas to conduct this independent assurance report was produced for Bradford & Bingley.
no review of performance throughout the year of the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR This provides further detail of the findings of and no co-ordination of data until year end.
Report for 2005. our review summarised in this statement.
Bradford & Bingley could consider using the formal meetings described above to review The overall aim of the statement is to provide Opinion of the verier Bureau Veritas performance throughout the year and independent assurance to stakeholders that We are satisfied that Bradford & Bingleys implement more formal data collection systems.
the information provided by Bradford & Bingley CSR Report for 2005 provides a fair and Bradford & Bingley have made good in its CSR Report is accurate, reliable, objective accurate representation of the corporate progress with engaging the SRI stakeholders and reects the material corporate social responsibility activity for the period of the business, however other stakeholder responsibility issues and performance of 1 January to 31 December 2005 for data engagement is limited.
Whilst the financial Bradford & Bingley business activity.
unless otherwise specified in the report services sector does not have such diverse and that there are processes in place for stakeholders as other sectors, the example Responsibility of Bureau Veritas identifying, managing and understanding CSR of SRI engagement should be replicated Bureau Veritas obligation is to readers of this risks and opportunities within the business.
with other stakeholder groups throughout report.
Bureau Veritas is responsible exclusively There are no significant omissions which the business.
for the contents of this statement which has could affect stakeholders ability to make Bradford & Bingley should consider making been published in full by Bradford & Bingley.
informed judgements on Bradford & Bingleys greater use of design in the report to present performance.
information on KPI performance and results Bureau Veritas has not been involved in the to allow readers to obtain a more detailed preparation of any material included in the Key highlights and improvements noted in picture of performance improvements.
the reporting process During the course of our work, we have Scope identied the following: Louise Etheridge The scope of assurance was determined after SENIOR CONSULTANT discussion with Bradford & Bingley and provides Corporate Responsibility Services Bradford & Bingley showed a clear an evaluation of whether the information in the commitment to CSR throughout the 2005 CSR Report is supported by underlying Reviewed by business.
CSR has strong leadership and objective evidence.
This included a review of Emma Grifths support at a high level through indirect the report against the requirements of the PRINCIPAL CONSULTANT Board reporting at the business strategy AA1000 Assurance Standard in terms of Corporate Responsibility Services level.
As a result, the degree of materiality and completeness.
embeddedness in the business is impressive.
Bradford & Bingley are in their second Bureau Veritas used a 10% sampling approach reporting year and have already made good for all factual statements in the CSR Report.
headway in identifying their key material The sample was chosen from a material risk risks.
However, they should consider Bureau Veritas based perspective.
Bureau Veritas is a global services company specialising in QHSE formally mapping these risks across the and SA management Quality, Health and Safety, Environment organisation in subsequent years.
Fifty per cent of performance data relating to and Social Accountability with a network that covers over 140 Bradford & Bingley demonstrated an the KPIs in the Results section of the report has countries.
It offers an extensive range of technical services and innovative approach towards identifying solutions in the elds of certication, conformity assessment, been veried.
Bureau Veritas conducted and implementing CSR opportunities training and consulting.
Our Consulting expertise covers: interviews, documentation reviews and data Corporate Responsibility, EMS, Air Quality, Noise, Water throughout the organisation and work collection system reviews to gather evidence Quality and Ecology.
Many staff are registered with the Institute proactively with a number of external regarding factual statements and quantitative of Environmental Management and Assessment IEMA as organisations to improve performance.
performance data contained in the CSR Report.
qualied auditors and members of AA1000.
B16163 CSR BROCHURE AW 28 2 06 16:05 Page 24 24 BRADFORD & BINGLEY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005 WWW.
CO. UK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Feedback Feedback is a vital part of this report.
It enables us to improve disclosure and to ensure we are reporting on relevant information.
We would value feedback on our CSR programme and this report.
For general CSR feedback or enquiries please contact - csr@bbg.
co. uk Corporate Responsibility Index 2005 London Benchmarking Group For environmental feedback or enquiries please Bradford & Bingley was recognised as one of Membership Statement contact - environment@bbg.
co. uk the top 100 Companies That Count in the Bradford & Bingley plc continues to be an For community investment feedback or enquiries Sunday Times and Business in the Community active member of the London Benchmarking please contact - community.
co. uk Corporate Responsibility Index.
The LBG is a group of over 60 challenges whether a business is conducting companies, working together to improve the This report is available on our website, corporate responsibility activities in a management and measurement of their www.
co. uk as the main method of systematic and integrated way and helps in community programmes.
It is also available on our staff providing credible, independent information to intranet and at www.
com - the stakeholders and investors, demonstrating a The LBG focuses on the voluntary contributions worlds largest online directory of CSR reports.
More of a company to society, encouraging as information on the Corporate Responsibility accurate, quantitative and complete an account To demonstrate our commitment to disclosure Index can be found on the Business in the as possible.
LBG members agree to apply the of our CSR programme, we have also Community website, LBG measurement model and share their published our condential feedback from the www.
uk programmes key initiatives findings with other members.
Many also use the Corporate Responsibility Index on our website.
html model in their public reporting.
The model applies consistent methods for valuing a Copies of this report are distributed to a companys inputs to community programmes, database of previously identied shareholders, including cash, time and in kind.
It also examines analysts and customers who have expressed the programmes outputs and longer term an interest in, or been involved in the impacts.
The LBG defines three broad motives development of, our CSR programme.
If you for corporate community involvement and would like to be added to, or deleted from, encourages companies to be transparent about this database please contact - csr@bbg.
co. uk them, recognising that commercial and community benets can co-exist.
LBG members Bradford & Bingley would like to thank you for Business in the Community Awards for take a conservative approach to measurement, reading our CSR report, and we trust that you Excellence 2005 preferring to underclaim than overclaim.
have found it to be informative and interesting.
Bradford & Bingley was awarded two Big Ticks in the Business in the Community Awards for LBG members share experience in using the Mike Hammond GROUP CSR MANAGER Excellence 2005 for its partnership with Shelter, model and continuously improving it.
The group Bradford & Bingley and for its collaborative action with West is facilitated by The Corporate Citizenship Midlands Business Action on Homelessness.
Company, with a steering committee drawn More details on Bradford & Bingleys entry, and from LBG members to determine policy.
The the Awards for Excellence, can be found on model is explained in two workbooks, and the Business in the Community website, communicated via regular meetings and a www.
co. uk Registered ofce: Bradford & Bingley plc Croft Road Crossatts Bingley West Yorkshire BD16 2UA Telephone: 01274 555555 Email: csr@bbg.
co. uk Registered in England Number 3938288
