qxp 12 11 05 8:38 am Page 49 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Independent Auditors Report to the members of the British Empire Securities and General Trust plc We have audited the Group's financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2005 which comprise the Statement of Total Return of the Group, Group Balance Sheet, Company Balance Sheet and Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, and the related notes 1 to 26.
These financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors' Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company's members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors' Report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, including the financial statements which are required to be prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards as set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in relation to the financial statements.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing the Directors' Remuneration Report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the parts of the Director Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Company's compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises Company Summary, Financial Highlights, Chairmans Statement, The Companys History, Historical Record, Investment Managers Review, Investment Portfolio, Capital Structure, Board of Directors, unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, Directors Responsibility Statement, Shareholder Information, Notice of Annual General Meeting, and Company Information.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors' Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors' remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
Basis of Audit Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the 49
