qxp 14 11 05 3:29 pm Page 29 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 The Directors are responsible for ensuring that adequate accounting records are maintained, that the assets of the Company and the Group are safeguarded and for taking such steps for the detection and prevention of fraud and other irregularities as are reasonable in the circumstances.
The Directors are also responsible for ensuring that the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, appropriate accounting policies have been used and consistently applied, reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made in their preparation and all applicable UK and international accounting standards have been followed.
Special Business at the Annual General Meeting Resolution 9 - Authority to allot Shares Before a Company can allot shares it must have authority under Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 Act which may be sought for periods up to 5 years.
Under Resolution 9 the Company seeks to renew the general and unconditional authority already granted to it to allot up to 2,400,000 in nominal value of Ordinary Shares of 10p each, representing approximately 15 per cent of the issued Ordinary Share capital.
The Directors would only exercise this authority if they considered it to be in the best interests of the Company generally.
Resolution 10 - Authority to issue Shares outside of pre-emption rights The Directors are seeking to renew their limited authority to allot Shares other than on a pre-emptive basis.
This authority will be limited to allotments of new Ordinary Shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 800,400 being approximately 5 per cent of the issued Ordinary Share capital and to the transfer or sale of Shares held in treasury.
The Directors would only exercise this authority if they believed it to be advantageous to the Companys Shareholders to do so and would not result in a diminution of net asset value per Share.
Resolution 11 - Share Buy-Back Facility This Resolution is to renew the authority granted to the Directors each year to make market purchases of up to 23,996,005 Ordinary Shares in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act and Listing Rules representing approximately 14.99 per cent of the issued Ordinary Share capital at the date of this Report.
The minimum price which may be paid shall be 10p per Ordinary Share and the maximum shall be 5 per cent above the average of the mid-market values for Ordinary Shares as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding purchase.
Under the Companies Act Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003, Shares bought back up to a ceiling Ceiling of 10 per cent of the Ordinary Share capital then in issue, may be held in treasury for cancellation or re-sale at a future date rather than being cancelled upon purchase.
Any Ordinary Shares bought back which exceed the Ceiling are automatically cancelled.
The Directors would not buy back shares at a price above the prevailing net asset value at the date of purchase nor exercise the authority granted under this Resolution unless they considered it to be in the best interests of Shareholders or would result in an increase in net asset value per Share.
Treasury shares would not be re-sold at a price below the net asset value per Share for the day preceding such sale.
The authority granted under this Resolution will expire on 14 March 2007 unless otherwise varied, revoked or renewed.
Registered Office: By Order of the Board, Bennet House For and on behalf of 54 St Jamess Street Phoenix Administration Services Limited London Secretary 15 November 2005 29
