Additional information for shareholders Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements Certain statements in this annual report are forward-looking and are made in reliance on the safe harbour provisions of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements refer to analyses and other information which are based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable.
These statements include, without limitation, those concerning: BTs transformation strategy and its ability to achieve it: expected cost savings: growth of, and opportunities available in, the communications industry and BTs positioning to take advantage of those opportunities: expectations regarding competition, market shares, prices and growth: expectations regarding the convergence of technologies: growth and opportunities in new wave business such as networked IT services, broadband and mobility : BTs network development and expansion plans: plans for the launch of new products and services: network performance and quality: the impact of regulatory initiatives on operations, including the regulation of the UK xed wholesale and retail businesses: BTs possible or assumed future results of operations and or those of its associates and joint ventures: BTs future dividend policy: capital expenditure and investment plans: adequacy of capital: nancing plans: demand for and access to broadband and the promotion of broadband by third party service providers: and those preceded by, followed by, or that include the words believes, expects, anticipates, intends or similar expressions.
Due to a number of new and revised Standards included within the body of Standards that comprise International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS there is not yet a significant body of established practice on which to draw in forming opinions regarding interpretation and application.
Accordingly, practice is continuing to evolve.
At this preliminary stage, therefore, the full financial effect of reporting under IFRS as it will be applied and reported on in the groups first IFRS financial statements cannot be determined with certainty and may be subject to change.
Although BT believes that the expectations reected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct.
Because these statements involve risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause differences between actual results and those implied by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: material adverse changes in economic conditions in the markets served by BT and its lines of business: future regulatory actions and conditions in its operating areas, including competition from others in the UK and other international communications markets: selection by BT and its lines of business of the appropriate trading and marketing models for its products and services: technological innovations, including the cost of developing new products and the need to increase expenditures for improving the quality of service: the anticipated benets and advantages of new technologies not being realised: developments in the convergence of technologies: prolonged adverse weather conditions resulting in a material increase in overtime, staff or other costs: the timing of entry and profitability of BT and its lines of business in certain communication markets: significant changes in market shares for BT and its principal products and services: uctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates: to the extent that BT chooses to sell assets or minority interests in its subsidiaries, prevailing market levels for such sales: and general financial market conditions affecting BTs performance.
BT undertakes no obligation to update any forwardlooking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Background Telephone services in almost all of the UK were, until 1981, provided by the Post Ofce, which was a government department until 1969 when it was established as a state public corporation.
In 1981, the postal and telecommunications services of the Post Ofce became the responsibility of two separate corporations, with British Telecommunications under the trading name of British Telecom taking over the telecommunications business.
British Telecommunications plc, the successor to the statutory corporation British Telecommunications, was incorporated in England and Wales on 1 April 1984 as a public limited company, wholly owned by the UK Government, as a result of the Telecommunications Act 1984.
Between November 1984 and July 1993, the UK Government sold all of its shareholding in three public offerings.
BT Group was formed when the O business, comprising what had been BTs mobile activities in the UK, the 2 Netherlands, Germany and the Republic of Ireland, was demerged on 19 November 2001.
British Telecommunications plc shares ceased trading on the London, New York and Tokyo stock exchanges on 16 November 2001.
BT Groups shares commenced trading on the London and New York stock exchanges on 19 November 2001.
As a result of the transaction BT plc became a wholly owned subsidiary of BT Group Investments Limited BTGI, itself wholly owned by BT Group plc.
Accordingly, the ordinary shares of BT plc were fide-listed from the London Stock Exchange on 19 November 2001.
The registered ofce address of BT is 81 Newgate Street, London EC1A 7AJ.
The companys agent in the USA is Charles Reach, 350 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10017.
82 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 Notes prices On 5 December 2000 BT issued four series of notes comprising US$2.8 billion notes due 2030 the thirty-year Notes, US$3.0 billion 8.125% notes due 2010 the ten-year Notes, US$3.1 billion 7.625% notes due 2005 the five-year Notes and US$1.1 billion oating rate notes due 2003 the three-year Notes.
The three-year Notes were redeemed at par on 15 December 2003.
Memorandum The Memorandum provides that the companys principal objects are, among other things, to carry on any business of running, operating, managing and supplying telecommunication systems and systems of any kind for conveying, receiving, storing, processing or transmitting sounds, visual images, signals, messages and communications of any kind.
Articles a Voting rights In the following description of the rights attaching to the shares in the company, a holder of shares and a shareholder is, in either case, the person registered in the companys register of members as the holder of the relevant shares.
Subject to certain restrictions, on a show of hands, every shareholder present at any general meeting has one vote and, on a poll, every shareholder present in person or by proxy has one vote for each share which they hold or represent.
Voting at any meeting of shareholders is by a show of hands unless a poll is demanded by the chairman of the meeting or by any shareholder at the meeting who is entitled to vote or the shareholders proxy.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 83 b Changes in capital The company may by ordinary resolution: i consolidate, or consolidate and then divide, all or any of its share capital into shares of a larger amount: ii subject to the Companies Act 1995, divide all or part of its share capital into shares of a smaller amount: iii cancel any shares which have not, at the date of the ordinary resolution, been taken or agreed to be taken by any person and reduce the amount of its share capital by the amount of the shares cancelled: and iv increase its share capital.
The company may also: i buy back its own shares: and ii by special resolution reduce its share capital, any capital redemption reserve and any share premium account.
c Dividends The companys shareholders can declare dividends by passing an ordinary resolution provided that no dividend can exceed the amount recommended by the directors.
Dividends must be paid out of profits available for distribution.
If the directors consider that the profits of the company justify such payments, they can pay interim and final dividends.
Fixed dividends will be paid on any class of share on the dates stated for the payments of those dividends.
Any dividend which has not been claimed for 12 years after it was declared or became due for payment may be forfeited and will belong to the company unless the Directors decide otherwise.
d Distribution of assets on winding up If the company is wound up whether the liquidation is voluntary, under supervision of a court or by a court the liquidator can, with the authority of an extraordinary resolution passed by the shareholders, divide among the shareholders all or any part of the assets of the company.
This applies whether the assets consist of property of one kind or different kinds.
For this purpose, the liquidator can place whatever value the liquidator considers fair on any property and decide how the division is carried out between shareholders or different groups of shareholders.
The liquidator can also, with the same authority, transfer any assets to trustees upon trusts for the benefit of members which the liquidator decides.
The liquidation of the company can then be nalised and the company dissolved.
No past or present members can be compelled to accept any shares or other property under the Articles which could give them a liability.
e Transfer of shares Shares of the company may only be transferred in writing either by an instrument of transfer in the usual standard form or another form approved by the Board.
The transfer form must be signed or made effective by or on behalf of the person making the transfer.
f General meetings of shareholders The Board can decide to call general meetings.
If there are not enough directors in the UK to call a general meeting, any director or shareholder may call a general meeting.
If a meeting is not an annual general meeting it is called an extraordinary general meeting.
g Limitations on rights of non-resident or foreign shareholders There are no limitations on the rights of non-resident or foreign shareholders.
h Directors Directors remuneration The directors are entitled to the remuneration set by the company by an ordinary resolution.
The directors may be paid their expenses properly incurred in connection with the business of the company.
The directors may grant pensions or other benets to, among others, any director or former director or persons connected with them.
However, the company can only provide these benets to any director or former director who has not been an employee or held any other ofce or executive position in BT Group plc or any of its subsidiary undertakings, including the company, or to relations or dependants of, or people connected to, those directors or former directors, if the shareholders approve this by passing an ordinary resolution.
i Directors votes A director need not be a shareholder, but a director who is not a shareholder can still attend and speak at shareholders meetings.
84 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 Unless the Articles say otherwise, a director cannot vote on a resolution about a contract in which the director has a material interest this will also apply to interests of a person connected with the director.
The director can vote if the interest is only an interest in BT Group plc shares, debentures or other securities.
A director can, however, vote and be counted in a quorum in respect of certain matters in which he she is interested as set out in the Articles.
Subject to the relevant legislation, the shareholders can by passing an ordinary resolution suspend or relax, among other things, the provisions relating to the declaration of the interest of a director in any contract or arrangement or relating to a directors right to vote and be counted in a quorum on resolutions in which he she is interested to any extent or ratify any particular contract or arrangement carried out in breach of those provisions.
j Directors interests If the legislation allows and the director has disclosed the nature and extent of the interest to the Board, the director can: i have any kind of interest in a contract with or involving the company or in which the company has an interest or with or involving another company in which the company has an interest : ii have any kind of interest in a company in which the company has an interest including holding a position in that company or being a shareholder of that company : iii hold a position other than auditor in the company or another company in which the company has an interest on terms and conditions decided by the Board: and iv alone or through some rm with which the director is associated do paid professional work other than as auditor for the company or another company in which the company has an interest on terms and conditions decided by the Board.
A director does not have to hand over to the company any benefit received or profit made as a result of anything permitted to be done under the Articles.
When a director knows that he she is in any way interested in a contract with the company he she must tell the other directors.
k Retirement of directors No person will be prevented from being or becoming a director simply because that person has reached the age of 70. l Directors borrowing powers To the extent that the legislation and the Articles allow, the Board may exercise all the powers of the company to borrow money, to mortgage or charge its business, property and assets present and future and to issue debentures and other securities, and give security either outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of the company or another person.
Exchange controls and other limitations affecting security holders There are currently no government laws, decrees or regulations in the United Kingdom that restrict the export or import of capital, including, but not limited to, UK foreign exchange control restrictions, or that affect the remittances of dividends or other payments to non-resident holders of the companys ordinary shares.
There are no limitations under the laws of the United Kingdom restricting the right of non-residents to hold or to vote shares in the company.
Documents on display All reports and other information that BT les with the US Securities and Exchange Commission may be inspected at the SECs public reference facilities at room 1200, 450 Fifth Street, Washington, DC, USA.
These reports may be accessed via the SECs website at www.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 85
