Caledonia Investments plc 51 Annual report 2005 Accounting policies Basis of preparation Joint ventures and associated undertakings The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost Investments in which the group has a long term interest and convention, modified to include the revaluation of investments, over whose operating and financial policies it exerts significant and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
influence, but which are held as part of an investment portfolio, the value of which is through their marketable value as part Investment trust companies generally report under the Statement of a basket of investments, are not regarded as joint ventures of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment or associated undertakings.
The directors believe that equity Trust Companies IT SORP, dated January 2003 and published accounting for such investments, that may come within the by the Association of Investment Trust Companies.
The IT SORP Companies Act definition of associated undertakings, would not assumes, however, that an investment trust is also an investment give a true and fair view of the income from investment activities company and can take advantage of the special provisions given of the group, since this is better measured by the inclusion of to investment companies under company law and accounting dividends and interest income.
It is impracticable to quantify the standards.
Caledonia is not an investment company and, in these effects of this departure.
The treatment adopted is in accordance circumstances, the IT SORP states that an investment trust with FRS 9 Associates and Joint Ventures.
company should prepare its financial statements in accordance with the normal rules contained in Schedule 4 to the Companies Valuation of investments Act 1985 and accounting standards.
Investments are included according to the following guidelines, which have been drawn up having regard to the British Venture Caledonia recognises, however, that presenting information Capital Association BVCA guidelines.
that is comparable with other investment trusts is important to investors.
It therefore augments its financial statements with the Quoted investments, for which an active market exists, are information and disclosures required by the IT SORP in respect valued at mid-market price.
of the performance of the holding company.
This is because the company balance sheet unlike that of the group can reflect full Unquoted equity investments are valued by the directors on a net asset value, and the movement in this figure is a key measure number of bases depending on the nature of each investment.
A statement of total return on an IT Early-stage investments will generally be valued at cost, less SORP basis is also presented to explain this movement.
a provision if performance is substantially below expectations, for one year or until the investment starts to earn significant The group has implemented UITF 37 Purchases and Sales of maintainable profits.
Investments earning significant Own Shares and UITF 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts, which maintainable profits are generally valued using an earnings require the cost of shares in the company held by the group to be multiple, based on current year profit after tax and an earnings shown as deductions from shareholders funds.
Previously, own multiple for a comparable quoted company or sector average.
shares were shown as fixed asset investments.
This change has A discount will be applied to recognise the absence of a ready not materially affected previously reported profits and losses, but market on which the holding can be sold.
The liquidity discount comparative figures have been restated in the balance sheet and will normally be 30%, but may be reduced to 10% if an initial related notes.
public offering or realisation is imminent.
For some asset-backed businesses, such as where there is a significant property element, The group has also implemented UITF 17 Revised 2003 the earnings multiple method of valuation is inappropriate, and Employee Share Schemes, which requires the minimum profit a net realisable asset basis is applied.
It may also be appropriate and loss charge for share options granted to be determined as to use the net realisable asset basis of valuation if this results in the intrinsic value.
Previously, the charge was based on either a higher valuation than the earnings method, or the company is intrinsic value or, where purchases of shares were made by incurring losses.
A third party valuation, such as an independent an ESOP trust at fair value, by reference to the cost of shares valuation report or a material arms length transaction, will available for the award less any contributions payable by the provide prima facie evidence of fair value and will usually take employees.
The implementation of the revised UITF 17 had precedence over other methods.
no material impact on the groups previously reported profits and losses.
Unquoted fixed income shares and loan investments are valued at the lower of cost or recoverable amount.
Investments in Basis of consolidation unquoted funds are valued at the net asset value of the fund, The consolidated financial statements consolidate the results with an appropriate adjustment where the net asset value has of the company and all of its subsidiary undertakings drawn up not been calculated in accordance with BVCA guidelines.
The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or sold during the year are included in the financial Realised surpluses or deficits on the disposal of investments statements from the date of acquisition or to the date of sale.
are taken to the realised capital reserve of the company, As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the and unrealised surpluses and deficits on the revaluation of profit and loss account of the company has not been included investments are taken to the unrealised capital reserve as in these financial statements.
In the company financial statements, investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated in accordance with the valuation of investments and income policies outlined below.
Subsidiary undertakings include equity and loan interest elements.
Caledonia Investments plc 52 Annual report 2005 Accounting policies continued Income Capital reserves Dividends receivable from equity shares are brought into account The following are accounted for in the realised capital reserve on the ex-dividend date or, where no ex-dividend date is quoted, of the company: when the companys right to receive payment is established.
Fixed returns on non-equity shares and debt securities are Gains and losses on the realisation of investments.
recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on the shares and debt securities.
Other returns Realised exchange differences of a capital nature.
are recognised when the right to the return is established.
Expenses and finance costs charged to this reserve in Expenses accordance with the above policies.
Expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis and are charged to the revenue account except that expenses which Realised gains and losses on transactions undertaken to are incidental to the acquisition or disposal of an investment are hedge an exposure of a capital nature.
included within the cost of the investment or deducted from the disposal proceeds on sale of the investment.
The following are accounted for in the unrealised capital reserve of the company: Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year Increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing at the year end.
differences between the treatment of certain items for accounting and taxation purposes.
Any charge for taxation on the disposal Unrealised exchange differences of a capital nature.
of investments is dealt with in the capital reserve.
Unrealised gains and losses on transactions undertaken Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences to hedge an exposure of a capital nature.
between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance Goodwill sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19.
In particular, Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and amortised FRS 19 does not allow deferred tax to be provided in respect of over its estimated useful economic life.
Negative goodwill arising investment revaluations.
on acquisitions is capitalised and written back through the profit and loss account in the period in which the non-monetary assets Foreign currency acquired are recovered.
In the company financial statements, transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the local currency at actual Up to 31 March 1998, depending on the circumstances of each exchange rates as at the date of the transaction or, where acquisition, goodwill arising on acquisitions was either set off appropriate, at the rate of exchange in a related forward exchange directly against reserves or amortised through the profit and loss contract.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign account over the directors estimate of its useful life.
Goodwill currencies at the year end are reported at the rates of exchange previously eliminated against reserves was not reinstated on prevailing at the year end or, where appropriate, at the rate of implementation of FRS 10. exchange in a related forward exchange contact.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date Depreciation of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in the Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets, other than capital reserve or in the revenue account depending on whether freehold land and assets in the course of construction, at rates the gain or loss is of a capital or revenue nature respectively.
calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset evenly over its expected useful life, as follows: In the consolidated financial statements, assets, liabilities and results of subsidiaries accounting in foreign currencies are Freehold and leasehold properties 50 years or the period translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the of lease if shorter balance sheet date.
The exchange differences arising on Plant and machinery 5 to 25 years retranslating opening net assets are taken directly to reserves.
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3 to 10 years All other translation differences are taken to the profit and loss account, with the exception of differences on the revaluation of fixed asset investments denominated in foreign currencies, which are taken directly to the revaluation reserve.
Caledonia Investments plc 53 Annual report 2005 Stocks Employee share trust Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of shares in the company held by an employee share Cost is determined on a first-in, first-out basis and includes trust is accounted for as a deduction in arriving at shareholders production overheads as appropriate.
Net realisable value funds, until the shares vest unconditionally to employees.
is the estimated price at which stocks could be sold in the normal course of business, after allowing for all further costs Treasury shares and own shares held by the group of completion and sale.
The cost of shares in the company held by the the group is accounted for as a deduction in arriving at shareholders funds.
Payments received on account are deducted from work in No profits or losses are recognised in respect of dealings in own progress.
Where such receipts exceed the valuation, the excess shares and no loss is recognised when share values reduce.
Derivative financial instruments Leases Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure Rentals payable and receivable under operating leases are to foreign exchange and interest rate risks and are not used for charged or credited to the profit and loss account on a straight trading purposes.
Instruments qualify for hedge accounting line basis over the terms of the leases.
where the underlying asset or liability has characteristics which can be directly related to the instrument transacted.
Pensions The group principally operates defined benefits pension schemes The sterling equivalent of forward foreign exchange contracts in the UK, USA and Germany.
Contributions to the schemes are used to hedge foreign currency investments are recorded in charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost debtors or creditors at valuation.
Movements in the valuation of pensions over the working lives of the employees within the of these contracts are included initially in the unrealised capital schemes.
In addition, contributions are made to grouped reserve of the company or the revaluation reserve of the group.
personal pension plans and other arrangements, which are When the underlying investment is sold, or the contracts mature, charged to the profit and loss account when payable.
The the unrealised gains or losses on these contracts are recognised transition rules of FRS 17 have been applied in drawing up in the realised capital reserve of the company or the profit and these financial statements.
loss account of the group.
Long term contracts Premiums paid on interest rate caps and collars are recognised Profit on long term contracts is taken as the work is carried out on the balance sheet as debtors.
The options are not revalued to if the final outcome can be assessed with reasonable certainty.
fair value in the balance sheet.
Premiums on the options, net of The profit is calculated on a prudent basis to reflect the any realised gains, are taken to interest payable, spread evenly proportion of the work completed at the year end and full over the life of the cap and collar.
provision is made for all foreseeable losses.
Turnover Turnover represents the amounts derived from the provision of goods and services which fall within the groups ordinary activities, stated net of value added tax.
