Accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these Property, plant and equipment financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been All property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost consistently applied to all the periods presented, unless less depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost less residual value Basis of preparation of all property, plant and equipment by equal annual instalments over The Group and Company have prepared their financial statements their expected useful lives.
The periods generally applicable are: plant under IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The Group and Company have and equipment two-five years and motor vehicles three years.
adopted the Fair Value Option amendments to IAS 39 applied from Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the duration of the date of transition ahead of the effective date.
required by IFRS1 First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, concerning the transition from UK GAAP to Financial investments IFRS are given in note 25.
The directors consider that a substantial measure of the performance of the Group is assessed through the capital gains and losses arising The significant accounting policies are set out below.
from the investment activity of the Group.
Consequently, for measurement purposes, financial investments, including equity, loan Investment Trust SORP and similar instruments, are designated at fair value through profit and Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of loss, and are valued in compliance with the International Private Equity Recommended Practice SORP for investment trusts, issued by the and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines as recommended by the Association of Investment Trusts in January 2003 revised December British Venture Capital Association, the principles of which are set out 2005, is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, the directors have on page 19. sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis compliant with the SORP.
Gains and losses on the realisation of financial investments are dealt with through the income statement, and taken to realised capital Management expenses reserve.
Financial investments are not held for immediate resale and Management expenses have been allocated 80 per cent to capital any gains on realisations are not available for distribution as a and 20 per cent to revenue.
The difference between the market value of financial investments and cost to the Group is shown as an unrealised gain or Basis of consolidation loss in the income statement, and taken to the unrealised The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial capital reserve.
statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to the balance sheet date.
Control is Investments in subsidiaries are reflected in the Companys accounts at achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial cost less any provisions for diminution in value.
and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Trade debtors and creditors are accounted for at fair value when the asset or liability is incurred.
Income Income arises from investment management, fees relating to advisory Cash and cash equivalents work on investment transactions and interest income.
Investment Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call management fees are recognised under the accruals basis, other fees with banks, other short-dated listed fixed income securities and are recognised in full once a contractual obligation is created for the money market instruments.
Such assets are held-for-trading, with third party.
capital gains, losses and fair value movements accounted for in the income statement, and taken to capital reserves due to the fact that Interest income on financial investments, and cash and cash such balances are held for future investment in financial investments.
equivalents, is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest rate applicable.
A provision will be made against this income Deferred tax where there is uncertainty as to its future recoverability.
The Deferred tax is recognised in full, using the liability method, on all requirement or otherwise for a provision is considered in conjunction temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and with the valuation of the related financial investment, the approach to liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
Deferred tax is measured using rates of tax that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Placement fees Pre-paid placement fees incurred in the establishment of managed Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable funds are carried as current assets recoverable from future that future taxable profits will be available against which the management fees receivable and are written off over the anticipated temporary differences can be utilised.
duration of the managed fund.
35 Candover Report and Accounts 2005 Accounting policies continued Due to the Companys status as an investment trust, and the intention Dividends payable to continue meeting the conditions required to obtain approval in the Final dividends are accounted for when they are ratified at the Annual foreseeable future, the Company has not provided for deferred tax on General Meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
any capital gains and losses arising on the revaluation or disposal of investments.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates Foreign currencies and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported period.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the Although these estimates are based on managements best settlement of such transactions and from the translation at period-end knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in may differ from those estimates.
The estimates and assumptions that foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
Where have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying exchange differences result from the translation into sterling of foreign amounts of assets and liabilities relate to the valuation of unlisted currency resources that are held for future financial investments, the financial investments held at fair value through profit and loss, which gain or loss is accounted for in the income statement, and taken to are valued on the basis noted above and the recognition or otherwise capital reserves.
of accrued income on loan notes and similar instruments granted to investee companies.
The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: ii income and expenses for each income statement are translated at actual exchange rates: iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
Pension costs The Group contributes towards a number of funded defined contribution pension and funded unapproved retirement benefit schemes designed to provide retirement benefits for its directors and employees.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from the Group in independently administered funds.
The pension cost charge represents contributions payable by the Group to the schemes in respect of the accounting period.
Leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
