Notice of Annual General Meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to what action to take, you should consult your stockbroker, solicitor, accountant or other appropriate independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your shares in Candover Investments plc, please forward this document and the accompanying Form of Proxy to the person through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
The Directors recommend all shareholders to vote in favour of all the resolutions, and consider that they are in the best interests of the Company and the shareholders as a whole.
NOTICE is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of 12 Purchase of own shares by the Company Candover Investments plc the Company will be held at To consider the following Resolution as a Special Resolution: The Stationers Hall, Ave Maria Lane, London EC4M 7DD on That the Company be and is hereby authorised, generally and without Monday 8th May, 2006 at 12 noon for the following purposes: conditions, for the purposes of section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of 1 Report and accounts section 163 3 of the Act of its own ordinary shares, on such terms To receive the audited financial statements for the year ended and in such manner as the directors may from time to time determine, 31st December, 2005, together with the reports of the directors and where such ordinary shares are held as treasury shares, the and the auditors therein.
Company may use them for the purpose of its employee share schemes provided that: 2 Directors remuneration report a the Company may not buy more than 3,276,306 ordinary shares, To approve the directors remuneration report contained in the equal to 14.99 per cent of the ordinary shares issued at the date audited financial statements.
of the 2005 audited financial statements: b the minimum price that the Company may pay for each share 3 Dividends is 25p: To declare a final dividend of 32p per share on the ordinary shares c the maximum price excluding expenses that the Company may in respect of the year ended 31st December, 2005. pay for each ordinary share is 5 per cent over the average of the mid-market price of the ordinary shares, based on the London 4 Election of directors Stock Exchange Daily Official List, for the five business days To elect Mr R A Stone as a director of the Company.
Mr Stones immediately before the day on which the Company buys the biography appears on page 20. ordinary shares: d this authority will last from the date of this Annual General Meeting 5-8 Re-election of directors until the next Annual General Meeting or until 8th August, 2007 if To re-elect the following directors who are retiring: the next Annual General Meeting has not been held by then : and 5 Mr S W Curran: e the Company may agree, before the authority ends, to buy 6 Mr G E Grimstone: ordinary shares even though the purchase is, or may be, 7 Mr A P Hichens: completed after the authority ends.
The biographies of Messrs Curran, Grimstone, Hichens By order of the board and West appear on pages 20 and 21.
A C Peel 9 Re-appointment of auditor Company Secretary To re-appoint Grant Thornton UK LLP, as auditor.
23rd March, 2006 10 Remuneration of auditor To authorise the directors to agree the auditors remuneration.
11 Adoption of new Articles of Association To consider the following Resolution as a Special Resolution: That the Articles of Association contained in the document produced to the Meeting and signed by the Chairman for the purposes of identification be approved and adopted as the new Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association, with effect from the close of this Annual General Meeting.
60 Candover Report and Accounts 2005 Notes 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies who need not be a member of the Company to attend and, on a poll, to vote on his or her behalf.
In order to be valid an appointment of proxy must be returned by one of the following methods: in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the Companys registrars, Capita Registrars, Proxy Department, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU: or in the case of CREST members or CREST Personal Members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out below.
In each case they must be received by the Company not less than 48 hours before the time of the Annual General Meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Relevant instructions through the CREST system must be received by Capita Registrars ID: RA10 by 12 noon on 6th May, 2006.
The Company may treat an instruction invalid in the circumstances set out in regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
2 Only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company 48 hours prior to the commencement of the Annual General Meeting shall be entitled to attend or vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their names at that time Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Changes to entries in the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
3 The register of directors interests in the share capital of the Company and a copy of the proposed new Articles of Association are available for inspection at the registered office during business hours on any weekday excluding public holidays from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and will be available for inspection at the venue of the Annual General Meeting from 11.45 am on 8th May, 2006 until the conclusion of the meeting.
