Cattles ra2005 p109-116 29 3 06 4:09 pm Page 113 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 113 Explanation of Resolutions THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt about what action to take, you should immediately consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other professional adviser authorised pursuant to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or transferred all your shares in the company, please deliver these annual report and accounts and the accompanying proxy form to the purchaser or transferee or to the person through whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Recommendation The directors consider that the ordinary business and the special business which is the subject matter of the Resolutions to be proposed at the annual general meeting is in the best interests of the company and its shareholders as a whole and unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of Resolutions 1 to 10 to be proposed at the annual general meeting, as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings which in aggregate amount to 417,676 shares and comprise approximately 0.13 per cent of the issued share capital of the company as at 28 March 2006.
Resolution 1 The directors must present to shareholders the Report of the Directors, the financial statements of the company and the auditors report for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Resolution 2 A final dividend of 10.65p per share is proposed and, if approved, will be paid on 16 May 2006 to shareholders on the register on 31 March 2006.
Resolutions 3 a b c d A J McWalter and M A Young, having been appointed as directors by the directors since the 2005 annual general meeting, are required to be re-appointed at this annual general meeting.
A J McWalters marketing experience and M A Youngs investment banking experience have added new dimensions to Board proceedings and the directors recommend shareholders to re-appoint them as directors.
At each annual general meeting one third of the directors excluding, for this purpose, A J McWalter and M A Young or, if their number is not a multiple of three, then the number nearest to but not less than one third, are required to retire from ofce.
Directors due to retire by rotation include any director who wishes to retire and not offer himself for re-election and otherwise are those who have been longest in ofce since they were last elected and so that as between persons who were last elected on the same day those to retire shall unless they otherwise agree among themselves be determined by lot.
B Cottingham is retiring and not offering himself for re-election and N N Broadhurst and M W G Collins retire by rotation and are offering themselves for re-election.
In relation to the re-election of N N Broadhurst, the Chairman confirms, in accordance with provision A.
7.2 of the 2003 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance, that, following a formal performance evaluation, his performance continues to be effective and to demonstrate his commitment to the role, including the commitment of his time for Board and Committee meetings and his other duties and the increased time commitment when he becomes Chairman at the conclusion of the annual general meeting on 11 May 2006.
Resolution 4 The auditors of the company must be re-appointed at each meeting at which the financial statements are presented.
Resolution 4 proposes the re-appointment of  LLP.
Resolution 5 This resolution gives the directors authority to agree the remuneration to be paid to the auditors.
Resolution 6 Under the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, the directors of the company are obliged to present to shareholders a report on directors remuneration for the financial year ended 31 December 2005.
The remuneration report is set out on pages 26 to 35 of this document.
Cattles ra2005 p109-116 29 3 06 4:09 pm Page 114 114 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Explanation of Resolutions Resolution 7 This resolution grants the directors authority to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 10,964,170, being one third of the companys issued share capital as at 28 March 2006.
It is not the directors current intention to allot relevant securities pursuant to this resolution.
This authority replaces the existing authority to allot relevant securities but does not affect the ability to allot shares under the companys employee share schemes.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the 2007 annual general meeting or 15 months after the passing of the resolution, if earlier.
Resolution 8 This is a special resolution whereby the directors seek power to allot shares for cash otherwise than in accordance with the pre-emption rights set out in section 89 1 of the Companies Act 1985 in connection with a rights issue of up to the number of shares which the directors are authorised to allot pursuant to resolution 7 or otherwise up to a maximum nominal amount of 1,644,625, being 5 per cent of the companys issued share capital as at 28 March 2006.
This power will expire at the conclusion of the 2007 annual general meeting or 15 months after the passing of this resolution, if earlier.
Resolution 9 This is a special resolution authorising the company to make market purchases of up to 32,892,511 of its ordinary shares, being 10 per cent of its issued share capital as at 28 March 2006.
The maximum price payable for a share shall not be more than the higher of 5 per cent above the average of the middle market quotations of such shares for the five business days before such purchases and the price stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation being the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venues where the purchase is carried out.
The minimum price payable for a share will be 10p.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the 2007 annual general meeting or 15 months after the passing of the resolution, if earlier.
The directors have no present intention of making market purchases of ordinary shares pursuant to this authority.
The directors would only purchase ordinary shares pursuant to this authority if to do so would result in an increase in earnings per share and be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
As at 28 March 2006 there were outstanding options to subscribe for 2,397,645 ordinary shares, which represented 0.73 per cent of the issued share capital of the company as at that date and would represent 0.81 per cent of the issued share capital of the company if the authority to make market purchases of ordinary shares conferred by resolution 9 was used in full.
Normally, any share purchased under this authority will be cancelled.
However, the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 allow companies to hold shares in treasury, as an alternative to cancelling them, following a purchase of own shares by the company in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Shares held in treasury may subsequently be cancelled, sold for cash or used to satisfy share options and share awards under an employee share scheme.
If any shares held in treasury are used to satisfy options and awards under an employee share scheme, any such options and awards will be granted or made in accordance with relevant institutional shareholder guidelines.
Once held in treasury, the company is not entitled to exercise any rights, including the right to attend and vote at meetings in respect of the shares.
Further, no dividend or other distribution of the companys assets may be made to the company in respect of the treasury shares.
Resolution 10 This is a special resolution amending Article 39.2 of the companys Articles of Association so as to increase the limit on the directors borrowing powers from five to six times the Adjusted Capital and Reserves.
Following the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards for the 2005 financial statements, the Adjusted Capital and Reserves as at 31 December 2005 were 368 million UK GAAP 2004: 437 million.
In December 2005 the gearing ratio covenant in the groups nancing agreements was increased from five to six times and so it is proposed to increase the limit on the directors powers to incur borrowings on behalf of the company and its subsidiary undertakings, both to align these with the increased gearing ratio covenants and to restore the limit on the amount that the directors can borrow under the Articles of Association to that which applied after the audit of the 2004 financial statements under UK GAAP.
