Cattles ra2005 p42-64 29 3 06 4:04 pm Page 51 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 51 2 Key sources of estimation uncertainty 2.1 Loan loss provisioning The group reviews its loans and receivables on an on-going basis to assess the level of impairment.
Future cash ows are estimated on the basis of the contractual cash ows of the assets and historical loss experience.
Historical loss experience is adjusted on the basis of current observable data to reect the effects of current conditions that did not affect the period on which the historical loss experience is based and to remove the effects of conditions in the historical period that do not exist currently.
To the extent that the net present value of estimated future cash ows differs by -1%, the loan loss provision in the balance sheet would be an estimated 16.7 million lower or 16.7 million higher.
2.2 Goodwill impairment reviews Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash ows expected to arise from the cash generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
The carrying amount of goodwill at the balance sheet date was 39.5 million.
Details of the value in use calculation are provided in note 15 on page 59.
2.3 Retirement benefit obligation The valuation of the retirement benefit obligation is dependent upon a series of assumptions, the key ones being mortality rates, investment returns, salary ination and the rate of pension increases.
Mortality estimates are based on standard mortality tables, adjusted where appropriate to reect the groups own experience.
The returns on xed interest investments are set to market yields at the valuation date to ensure consistency with the asset valuation.
The returns on UK and overseas equities are set by considering the long-term expected returns on these asset classes using a combination of historical performance analysis, the forward looking views of the financial markets as suggested by the yields available and the views of investment organisations.
The salary ination and pension increase assumptions reect the long-term expectations for both earnings and retail price ination.
The principal assumptions used in the valuation of the retirement benefit obligation as at 31 December 2005 are set out in note 33 on page 81.
3 Financial risk management 3.1 Strategy in using financial instruments The groups significant debt nancing and customer lending exposes it to a variety of potential financial risks that include the effects of changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, liquidity and concentrations of both funding and customer credit.
The group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit the adverse effects on the financial performance of the group by using other financial instruments, such as interest rate and currency swaps to x interest rates.
The Board of directors has delegated, within limits, the policies for setting out the treasury risk management policies applied by the group to the Treasury & Risk Director.
These policies are implemented directly by the treasury team on behalf of the group.
The team has a risk management policy that sets out specic guidelines to manage interest rate, foreign exchange and credit risk and the use of financial instruments in relation to these.
The groups long-standing treasury strategy of using appropriate financial derivative instruments to limit its exposure to interest rate movements for borrowings remains in place.
At 31 December 2005, approximately 84% of the groups total borrowings were protected against future interest rate volatility, for an average period of approximately five and a half years.
This strategy has provided the group with a stable funding platform and greater certainty and control over future funding costs.
It is not the policy of the group to trade in such instruments.
The level of protection contracted for at any particular time would not exceed the groups exposure to actual or projected borrowings, except in the event of short-term timing differences.
Further details of the derivative instruments held are set out in note 25 on pages 68 and 69.
The group maintains a mixture of long-term and short-term committed facilities that are designed to ensure that the group has sufficient available funds for current operations and planned growth.
Details of the changes in the groups funding and headroom are set out in note 23 on pages 66 and 67 and note 25 on page 70.
The group is careful to avoid building a concentration of facilities with a relatively small group of partners.
In order to avoid such a concentration the group has established funding in the bank, public bond and US private placement markets.
Bank facilities currently include a syndicate of 26 banking partners.
Cattles ra2005 p42-64 29 3 06 4:04 pm Page 52 52 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Notes to the Accounts 3 Financial risk management continued 3.2 Credit risk and concentration The group takes on exposure to credit risk in respect of loans and receivables, which is the risk that a customer will be unable to pay amounts in full when due.
Loan loss provisions are provided for losses that have been incurred at the balance sheet date.
significant changes in the economy could result in losses that are different from those provided for at the balance sheet date.
Management therefore carefully manages its exposure to credit risk.
At the time a loan is approved, direct repayment customers are all in employment, have bank accounts and are able to repay their borrowings via a direct debit payment.
A significant investment in customer screening processes has been made in recent years, including the transfer of almost all customer selection and underwriting activities from branches to central processing units.
All applications for direct repayment credit are initially screened centrally using a score card, which has been developed over many years in conjunction with a leading credit referencing agency and ensures consistency of underwriting decisions.
Applications which successfully pass this screening are then subject to a rigorous pre-lending process, including the verication of information provided by potential customers and an assessment of other financial commitments which the applicant may have, in order to confirm that the loan is both appropriate and affordable.
Exposure to credit risk is managed in part with collateral obtained on certain products.
Should a customer experience a longer-term adverse change in their financial position, account management is transferred from the local branch to a specialist local collection unit LCU.
The LCU then establishes a revised repayment schedule more suited to the customers changed circumstances.
Home collect customers continue to be served with small value, short-term advances typically 300. Credit risk is managed through regular analysis of the ability of borrowers to meet repayments and credit limits are amended accordingly.
The risks from a concentration of credit risk are limited due to the relatively low value of each customers debt and to the groups large and unrelated customer base.
3.3 Interest rate risk The group has minimal risk to revenue from changes in market interest rates as almost all customer lending is at rates of interest which are xed over the term of the contract.
The group has a similar low risk to changes in market interest rates for current borrowing because 80-90% of total borrowings are protected against future interest rate volatility though the use of xed rate borrowing in the case of public bonds, private placement loan notes, debentures, finance leases, hire purchase and other loans or oating rate bank borrowings protected by the interest rate swaps mentioned above.
As a consequence, a hypothetical 1% 100 basis points change in market interest rates at the balance sheet date would change the groups annual interest expense by around 2.0 million 2004: 2.0 million with no noticeable impact at all on the groups revenue and receivables cash ows.
3.4 Foreign currency risk At 31 December 2005 the group had a US $110 million unsecured loan note due for redemption at par in two parts in 2008 and 2011.
A further US $75 million unsecured loan note was raised in February 2006, due for redemption at par in 2011 and 2013.
The group has a policy that all foreign currency denominated borrowings are immediately swapped into Sterling at the commencement of the facility agreement in order that the group is not exposed to currency rate uctuations.
The group entered into foreign exchange contracts at the inception of these borrowings to eliminate this risk.
