Cattles ra2005 p42-64 29 3 06 4:03 pm Page 42 42 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Notes to the Accounts For the year ended 31 December 2005 1 Accounting policies Cattles plc the company is a company domiciled in the UK.
The consolidated financial statements of the company for the year ended 31 December 2005 comprise the company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the group.
1.1 Statement of compliance Prior to 2005, the group prepared its audited financial statements under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
From 1 January 2005, the group was required to prepare its annual consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
These consolidated and company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS and its interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, including the amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benets 2004, as adopted by the EU.
These are the groups first consolidated financial statements to which IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards has been applied.
The date of transition to IFRS for the group and the company was 1 January 2004 and the opening IFRS balance sheets of the group and the company have been prepared as at that date.
All comparative gures in respect of 2004, including those relating to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts with the exception of certain disclosures as permitted by IFRS 4 paragraph 42, have been restated to reect the adoption of IFRS.
Details of which of the optional IFRS 1 exemptions have been applied, as well as the reconciliations and explanations of the prior year effect of adopting IFRS on the equity net assets, profits and cash ows of the group and the company are provided in note 38 on pages 85 to 101 and pages 101 to 108 respectively.
1.2 Basis of preparation The financial statements are rounded to the nearest thousand.
They are prepared under the historical cost convention, as modied by the revaluation of derivative financial instruments.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an on-going basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Judgements made by management in the application of IFRS that have a significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 2 on page 51.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated and company financial statements and in preparing an opening IFRS balance sheet as at 1 January 2004 for the purpose of the transition to IFRS.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently by group entities.
Cattles ra2005 p42-64 29 3 06 4:04 pm Page 43 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 43 1 Accounting policies continued 1.2 Basis of preparation continued At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following new IFRS, amendments to existing standards and interpretations were in issue but were not yet effective, and therefore had not been adopted by the group: Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement The Fair Value Option Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts Financial Guarantee Contracts Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Cash Flow Hedge Accounting of Forecast Intra-group Transactions Amendment to IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates Net Investment in a Foreign Operation Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures IFRS 6 Exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRIC 4 Determining whether an agreement contains a lease IFRIC 5 Rights to interests arising from decommissioning, restoration and environmental funds IFRIC 6 Liabilities arising from participating in a specic market Waste electrical and electronic equipment IFRIC 7 Applying the restatement approach under IAS 29, Financial reporting in hyperinationary economies IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives A review of the impact of these new standards, amendments and interpretations is currently on-going.
At this stage we do not believe that they will give rise to any significant financial impact, other than revised disclosures in relation to financial instruments and capital.
1.3 Consolidation A business combination is recognised where separate entities or businesses have been brought together within the group.
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain benets from its activities, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than 50% of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
All subsidiaries share the same reporting date, 31 December, as Cattles plc.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for business combinations made by the group.
The cost of a business combination is measured as the fair value of the assets acquired, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the business combination.
Contingent consideration is included in the cost of a business at the acquisition date only if the consideration is probable and can be reliably measured, and is discounted using an appropriate discount rate.
If the future events upon which the contingent consideration is based do not occur or the estimate needs to be revised or if contingent consideration, which had not been initially included, does become probable and can be reliably measured, the cost of the business combination, and any associated goodwill, is adjusted accordingly.
Identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired in the business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of the identiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets acquired, the difference is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
Inter-company income, expenses, balances and unrealised gains or losses on transactions between group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Cattles ra2005 p42-64 29 3 06 4:04 pm Page 44 44 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Notes to the Accounts 1 Accounting policies continued 1.4 Segment reporting A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
For management purposes, the group is organised into three operating divisions, Consumer Credit, Debt Collection and Corporate Services.
These divisions are, therefore, the basis on which the group reports its primary segments.
A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those segments operating in other economic environments.
The groups operations are located only in the UK.
Management considers that all regions of the UK are subject to the same risks and returns, such that no secondary geographic segments exist.
1.5 Financial assets Management determines the classication of the groups financial assets at initial recognition into one of the following categories and re-evaluates this classication at each reporting date: Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the group provides money directly to a customer with no intention of trading the receivable.
This classication includes advances made to customers under hire purchase agreements and acquired default debt.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading: and those designated at fair value through profit or loss at inception.
A financial asset is classied as at fair value through profit or loss if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term or if so designated by management.
Derivatives refer to 1.23 are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Held-to-maturity Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments and xed maturities that the group has a positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
Were the group to sell a significant amount of held-to-maturity assets the entire category would be tainted and reclassied as available-for-sale.
Available-for-sale Available-for-sale investments are those intended to be held for an indefinite period of time, which may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or changes in interest rates, exchange rates or equity prices.
The group has not held any held-to-maturity or available-for-sale financial assets at any point during the period.
Loans and receivables are recognised when cash is advanced to borrowers, or at the date of purchase in respect of acquired default debt.
These assets are initially recognised at fair value plus direct and incremental transaction costs.
Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Purchases and sales of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are recognised on the trade-date, the date on which the group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised, and subsequently carried, at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of these financial assets are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
The groups financial assets at fair value through profit or loss relate solely to derivative instruments which cannot be designated as hedges.
Consequently, they are classied as derivative financial instruments in the balance sheet within assets or liabilities dependent on the individual instruments fair value at the reporting date.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash ows from the financial assets have expired or where the group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
Cattles ra2005 p42-64 29 3 06 4:04 pm Page 45 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 45 1 Accounting policies continued 1.6 Revenue recognition Revenue comprises the fair value receivable for the sale of goods and services, net of value-added tax, and is recognised as follows: 1.6.
1 Interest income Interest income is recognised in the income statement for all financial assets measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset and allocating the interest income over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate EIR is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash ows through the expected life, or contractual term if shorter, of the financial asset to the net carrying amount of the financial asset.
When calculating the EIR, the group estimates cash ows considering all contractual terms of the financial instruments, such as early settlement options, but does not include an expectation for future credit losses.
The calculation includes all fees charged to customers, such as acceptance or similar fees, and direct and incremental transaction costs, such as broker commissions and certain agents remuneration.
All income relating to payment protection insurance is regarded as being part of the groups economic return on the loans, hence the commission element is a constituent part of the EIR and is included within interest income.
In respect of default debt acquired by the Debt Collection division, the EIR calculation is based on an estimate of expected collections from the acquired debt and also includes initial court costs.
Amounts due from lessees under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are recorded as receivables at the amount of the groups net investment in the lease.
Finance income is allocated to accounting periods so as to reect a constant periodic rate of return on the groups net investment before tax outstanding in respect of the lease.
Interest income continues to be recognised at the EIR once a financial asset or a group of similar financial assets has been written down as a result of an impairment loss, irrespective of the terms of the loan and whether interest has been suspended on the customers account.
This is referred to as the gross-up adjustment to income and is offset by a corresponding gross-up adjustment to the loan loss provisioning charge refer to 1.7.
2 Insurance and brokerage income The Consumer Credit division offers payment protection and other insurance products, such as health, life and mechanical breakdown insurance, to its customers for which a commission is received from third party fronting insurers.
Commission received from third party insurers for the brokering of the sale of insurance products, for which the group does not bear any underlying insurance risk, is recognised and credited to the income statement when the brokerage service has been provided.
Commission relating to other insurance products, for which the group bears the underlying insurance risk, is recognised in line with the incidence of this risk.
Income from insurance profit share arrangements with the fronting insurer is recognised on an effective interest method in respect of payment protection insurance and in line with the incidence of risk in respect of other insurance products.
Reinsurance premiums receivable are accounted for net of cancellations.
The recognition of reinsurance premium income depends on the type of insurance policy.
Reinsurance premium income arising on payment protection policies is recognised on an effective interest method and reinsurance premium income arising on other policies is recognised in line with the incidence of risk.
Unearned premium income relating to payment protection insurance is held within loans and receivables and that relating to other insurance products is held as deferred income within trade and other payables.
Brokerage commissions charged to third parties for the introduction of loans to third party lenders are credited to the income statement when the service has been provided.
3 Sale of goods Sales of goods, principally motor vehicles, are recognised when the group entity has delivered the product to the customer, the customer has accepted the product and collectibility of the related receivable is reasonably assured.
4 Other income Other income includes fees and commissions charged to customers and third parties for the collection of debts and fees charged for the provision of debt factoring facilities, which are credited to the income statement when the service has been provided.
Cattles ra2005 p42-64 29 3 06 4:04 pm Page 46 46 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Notes to the Accounts 1 Accounting policies continued 1.7 Impairment of loans and receivables In respect of loans and receivables, including receivables under hire purchase contracts, the group assesses on an on-going basis whether there is objective evidence that a loan asset or a group of loan assets is impaired.
A loan asset or a group of loan assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset a loss event and the loss event has an impact on the estimated future cash ows of the loan asset or group of loan assets that can be reliably estimated.
The group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for loan assets that are individually significant, and either individually or collectively for loan assets that are not individually significant.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has occurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows, excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred, discounted at the loan assets original EIR.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of a loan loss provision.
The amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement as a loan loss provisioning charge within other cost of sales, except in the case of acquired default debt, where any impairment adjustment is taken to revenue.
For the purposes of a collective evaluation of impairment, loan assets are grouped on the basis of similar credit risk characteristics.
Those characteristics are relevant to the estimation of future cash ows for groups of such assets by being indicative of the debtors ability to pay all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the assets being evaluated.
Future cash ows for a group of loan assets that are collectively evaluated for impairment are estimated on the basis of the contractual cash ows of the assets and historical loss experience for assets with credit risk characteristics similar to those in the group.
Historical loss experience is adjusted on the basis of current observable data to reect the effects of current conditions that did not affect the period on which the historical loss experience is based and to remove the effects of conditions in the historical period that do not exist currently.
Where interest income continues to be recognised on impaired loans, which cannot be collected from the customer due to the interest being xed at the outset or interest having been suspended on the customers account, referred to as the gross-up adjustment to income, a corresponding loan loss provisioning charge is made.
This is referred to as the gross-up adjustment to the loan loss provisioning charge refer to 1.6.
1.8 Insurance claims Insurance claims arising from reinsured insurance policies are accounted for on a notied basis and included in the in the course of payment ICOP reserve.
In addition, a provision is recognised for claims incurred but not yet reported IBNR in relation to policies other than payment protection insurance where the risk of claims under these policies is already reected in the loan loss provision.
The ICOP reserve is held within trade and other payables and the IBNR reserve is held within provisions.
Claims reserves are based on the latest available information provided by the fronting insurers.
Provisioning for claims incurred but not reported is based on an estimate from the fronting insurers, derived from historic experience.
1 Functional and presentational currency The groups financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, which is the companys functional and presentational currency.
All subsidiaries of the group have Pounds Sterling as their functional currency.
2 Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at period-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement as part of finance costs in relation to borrowings and as part of administrative expenses in relation to other monetary assets or liabilities.
Cattles ra2005 p42-64 29 3 06 4:04 pm Page 47 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 47 1 Accounting policies continued 1.10 Intangible assets 1.10.1 Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisition represents the excess of the cost of a business combination over the fair values of the groups share of the identiable net assets acquired.
Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed at least annually for impairment.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash generating units CGUs.
Each CGU is consistent with the groups primary reporting segments.
Any impairment is recognised immediately through the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Up to 31 December 1997 under previous accounting policies, goodwill arising on acquisitions was recognised as a deduction from equity.
On the subsequent disposal of any business to which goodwill had been recognised as a deduction from equity, the goodwill remains within equity and is not transferred to the income statement.
1.10.2 Computer software Acquired software licenses are capitalised as intangible assets and amortised over their useful lives 3-7 years on a straight line basis.
Costs that are directly associated with the creation of identiable software, which meet the development asset recognition criteria as laid out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets, are recognised as internally-generated intangible assets.
Direct costs include the employment costs of internal software developers.
All other software development and maintenance costs are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives 5-7 years on a straight line basis.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
1.11 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Cost represents expenditure that is directly attributable to the purchase of the asset.
The group does not capitalise any borrowing costs.
Certain land and buildings are held at previous revalued amounts less subsequent accumulated depreciation as these amounts have been taken as their deemed cost as at the date of transition to IFRS in accordance with the exemption under IFRS 1.
Land and buildings are not subject to regular revaluations.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benets associated with the items will ow to the group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight line method to allocate the costs to their residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Freehold buildings 2% pa Leasehold buildings 2% to 20% pa Fixtures and ofce equipment 10% to 20% pa 1 Computer hardware 20% to 33 3% pa Motor vehicles 20% pa Assets held for rental 20% pa Assets held for rental comprised audio-visual electrical appliances, such as televisions, DVD and VCR players, which were hired by customers under a rental agreement.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying value is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amounts and are included in the income statement.
Cattles ra2005 p42-64 29 3 06 4:04 pm Page 48 48 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Notes to the Accounts 1 Accounting policies continued 1.12 Investments in subsidiary undertakings Investments in subsidiary undertakings are initially recognised at cost.
The company recognises income from the investment only to the extent that it receives distributions from post-acquisition accumulated profits.
Distributions received in excess of such profits are regarded as a recovery of investment and recognised as a reduction in the cost of the investment.
At each reporting date, an assessment is made as to whether there is any indication that the investment may be impaired.
If such an indication exists, the company estimates the investments recoverable amount.
The investment is written down to the recoverable amount if this is lower than its carrying value.
The impairment loss is recognised in the companys income statement.
1.13 Inventories Inventories comprise motor vehicles held for resale and are stated at the lower of actual cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less variable selling expenses.
1.14 Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cash ow statement, cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held with banks with maturity dates of less than 3 months and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities in the balance sheet.
1.15 Provisions Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely than not that an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount has been reliably measured.
1.16 Employee benets 1.16.1 Short-term benets Wages, salaries, commissions, bonuses, social security contributions, paid annual leave and non-monetary benets, including death-in-service premiums, are accrued in the period in which the associated services are rendered by employees of the group.
1.16.2 Pension obligations The group has both a dened benefit and a number of dened contribution pension plans.
The assets of the dened benefit pension plan are held in a separate trustee administered fund.
The present value of the dened benefit obligation less the fair value of the plan assets is recognised in the balance sheet as the retirement benefit obligation.
This obligation is recognised in the companys balance sheet since this entity is the plans sponsoring employer.
The dened benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected credit method.
The present value of the dened benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash ows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
The dened benefit obligation does not include a reserve for death-in-service benets or non-investment related expenses.
The fair value of plan assets is based on bid prices at each balance sheet.
The total pension charge arising from the dened benefit scheme is included within administrative expenses.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are immediately recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Past service costs are recognised immediately within the income statement, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, past service costs are amortised on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
For dened contribution plans, the group pays contributions into privately administered pension plans on a contractual basis.
The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense as they fall due.
The group provides no other post-retirement benets to its employees or directors.
Cattles ra2005 p42-64 29 3 06 4:04 pm Page 49 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 49 1 Accounting policies continued 1.16.3 Termination benets Termination benets are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date, or when an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benets.
The group recognises termination benets when it is demonstrably committed to either the termination of employment or a voluntary redundancy offer.
1.16.4 Share-based payments The group operates a number of equity-settled share-based payment plans.
In respect of share awards granted after 7 November 2002 and not vested by 1 January 2005, in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, an expense is recognised in respect of the fair value of employee services received in exchange for the grant of shares or share options.
A corresponding amount is recorded as an increase in equity within retained earnings.
The expense is spread over any relevant vesting period and is calculated by reference to the fair value of the shares or share options granted, excluding the effect of any non-market vesting conditions.
In arriving at fair values, the Black-Scholes pricing model is used and various assumptions are made, for example, on expected forfeiture rates, dividend yields, share price volatility and risk free rates.
The estimate for the number of options that are expected to become exercisable is revised at each balance sheet date.
Any impact from the revision of original estimates is recognised in the income statement over the remaining vesting period.
On transition to IFRS, the group elected not to apply IFRS 2 to share awards granted before 7 November 2002, such that no expense has been or is being recognised for them in the income statement.
Consequently, on the vesting of these awards, the cost of the shares is recognised directly in retained earnings.
1.17 Leasing as lessee Leases of property, plant and equipment and computer software where the group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as finance leases.
Assets held under finance leases or hire purchase contracts are capitalised on inception of the agreement at an amount equal to their fair value or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The interest element of the lease cost is charged to the income statement, within administrative expenses, over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
Property, plant and equipment and software licenses acquired under finance leases or hire purchase contracts is depreciated amortised over the shorter of the period of the agreement and the estimated useful lives of the assets.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases, net of any incentives received from the lessor, are charged to the income statement, within administrative expenses, on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
1.18 Borrowings Borrowings include bank borrowings, debenture loans and other borrowings, overdrafts and obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts.
Bank borrowings, debenture loans and other borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, being their issue proceeds net of any transaction costs incurred.
These borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
1.19 Current tax The charge for current tax is based on the results for the period as adjusted for items which are non-assessable or disallowed.
It is calculated using rates of tax that have been enacted by the balance sheet date.
1.20 Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
Deferred tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Cattles ra2005 p42-64 29 3 06 4:04 pm Page 50 50 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Notes to the Accounts 1 Accounting policies continued 1.21 Share capital Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Shares are recorded at their nominal value with any surplus received on their issue taken to the share premium account.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
Where the company purchases its own shares, being held by the trustee of the Employee benefit Trust in respect of the Long-Term Incentive Plan and Restricted Share Scheme, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity on consolidation.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, is also included in equity on consolidation.
These transactions are classied as own shares held within other reserves.
The consideration for the purchase of own shares paid by the company is recognised as a receivable due from the Trust within trade and other receivables.
1.22 Dividend distribution Final dividends payable to the companys shareholders are recognised in the groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim dividends payable are recognised in the period in which the dividends are paid.
1.23 Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value.
The fair value of derivatives is determined by using a valuation model and is primarily based on observable market data.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss from the re-measurement depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The groups policy is to designate on the date that the derivative contract is committed to.
The group designates derivatives as: A hedge of the fair value of a liability fair value hedging instrument, or A hedge of the cost of a highly probable forecast transaction or commitment cash ow hedging instrument.
To qualify for hedge accounting, the group is required, at inception, to document in advance the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The group is also required to document and demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge will be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash ows of the hedged item on an on-going basis.
This effectiveness testing is re-performed at each reporting date to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
The effectiveness of hedging instruments is assessed using the hypothetical derivative method.
This involves the comparison of the changes in fair value of the hedging instrument to a hypothetical derivative which has critical terms that match the hedged item.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as highly effective fair value hedging instruments are recorded in the income statement within finance costs, together with the change in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash ow hedging instruments is recognised in equity within the hedging reserve.
The change in the fair value relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within finance costs.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit, i. e. when the forecast interest payment that is hedged takes place.
When a cash ow hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a cash ow hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
If a fair value hedging instrument no longer meets the effectiveness criteria, the adjustment to the carrying value of a hedged item, for which the effective interest method is used, is amortised to income over the period to maturity.
