Cattles ra2005 p42-64 29 3 06 4:03 pm Page 42 42 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Notes to the Accounts For the year ended 31 December 2005 1 Accounting policies Cattles plc the company is a company domiciled in the UK.
The consolidated financial statements of the company for the year ended 31 December 2005 comprise the company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the group.
1.1 Statement of compliance Prior to 2005, the group prepared its audited financial statements under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
From 1 January 2005, the group was required to prepare its annual consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
These consolidated and company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS and its interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, including the amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benets 2004, as adopted by the EU.
These are the groups first consolidated financial statements to which IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards has been applied.
The date of transition to IFRS for the group and the company was 1 January 2004 and the opening IFRS balance sheets of the group and the company have been prepared as at that date.
All comparative gures in respect of 2004, including those relating to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts with the exception of certain disclosures as permitted by IFRS 4 paragraph 42, have been restated to reect the adoption of IFRS.
Details of which of the optional IFRS 1 exemptions have been applied, as well as the reconciliations and explanations of the prior year effect of adopting IFRS on the equity net assets, profits and cash ows of the group and the company are provided in note 38 on pages 85 to 101 and pages 101 to 108 respectively.
1.2 Basis of preparation The financial statements are rounded to the nearest thousand.
They are prepared under the historical cost convention, as modied by the revaluation of derivative financial instruments.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an on-going basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Judgements made by management in the application of IFRS that have a significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 2 on page 51.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated and company financial statements and in preparing an opening IFRS balance sheet as at 1 January 2004 for the purpose of the transition to IFRS.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently by group entities.
