Cattles ra2005 p42-64 29 3 06 4:04 pm Page 51 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 51 2 Key sources of estimation uncertainty 2.1 Loan loss provisioning The group reviews its loans and receivables on an on-going basis to assess the level of impairment.
Future cash ows are estimated on the basis of the contractual cash ows of the assets and historical loss experience.
Historical loss experience is adjusted on the basis of current observable data to reect the effects of current conditions that did not affect the period on which the historical loss experience is based and to remove the effects of conditions in the historical period that do not exist currently.
To the extent that the net present value of estimated future cash ows differs by -1%, the loan loss provision in the balance sheet would be an estimated 16.7 million lower or 16.7 million higher.
2.2 Goodwill impairment reviews Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash ows expected to arise from the cash generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
The carrying amount of goodwill at the balance sheet date was 39.5 million.
Details of the value in use calculation are provided in note 15 on page 59.
2.3 Retirement benefit obligation The valuation of the retirement benefit obligation is dependent upon a series of assumptions, the key ones being mortality rates, investment returns, salary ination and the rate of pension increases.
Mortality estimates are based on standard mortality tables, adjusted where appropriate to reect the groups own experience.
The returns on xed interest investments are set to market yields at the valuation date to ensure consistency with the asset valuation.
The returns on UK and overseas equities are set by considering the long-term expected returns on these asset classes using a combination of historical performance analysis, the forward looking views of the financial markets as suggested by the yields available and the views of investment organisations.
The salary ination and pension increase assumptions reect the long-term expectations for both earnings and retail price ination.
The principal assumptions used in the valuation of the retirement benefit obligation as at 31 December 2005 are set out in note 33 on page 81.
3 Financial risk management 3.1 Strategy in using financial instruments The groups significant debt nancing and customer lending exposes it to a variety of potential financial risks that include the effects of changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, liquidity and concentrations of both funding and customer credit.
The group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit the adverse effects on the financial performance of the group by using other financial instruments, such as interest rate and currency swaps to x interest rates.
The Board of directors has delegated, within limits, the policies for setting out the treasury risk management policies applied by the group to the Treasury & Risk Director.
These policies are implemented directly by the treasury team on behalf of the group.
The team has a risk management policy that sets out specic guidelines to manage interest rate, foreign exchange and credit risk and the use of financial instruments in relation to these.
The groups long-standing treasury strategy of using appropriate financial derivative instruments to limit its exposure to interest rate movements for borrowings remains in place.
At 31 December 2005, approximately 84% of the groups total borrowings were protected against future interest rate volatility, for an average period of approximately five and a half years.
This strategy has provided the group with a stable funding platform and greater certainty and control over future funding costs.
It is not the policy of the group to trade in such instruments.
The level of protection contracted for at any particular time would not exceed the groups exposure to actual or projected borrowings, except in the event of short-term timing differences.
Further details of the derivative instruments held are set out in note 25 on pages 68 and 69.
The group maintains a mixture of long-term and short-term committed facilities that are designed to ensure that the group has sufficient available funds for current operations and planned growth.
Details of the changes in the groups funding and headroom are set out in note 23 on pages 66 and 67 and note 25 on page 70.
The group is careful to avoid building a concentration of facilities with a relatively small group of partners.
In order to avoid such a concentration the group has established funding in the bank, public bond and US private placement markets.
Bank facilities currently include a syndicate of 26 banking partners.
