Notes to the Accounts 1 Accounting policies a Basis of accounting The accounts are prepared on the historical cost basis of accounting, modified to include the revaluation of fixed asset investments.
The accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and with the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies the SOR P dated January 2003.
All of the Companys operations are of a continuing nature.
b Valuation of fixed asset investments UK listed investments are valued according to the prices issued by the London Stock Exchange, being the closing midmarket prices or last traded price for all investments where appropriate.
AI M investments are valued at their closing mid-market prices.
Overseas listed investments are valued at their closing mid-market prices.
Unlisted investments are valued by the directors at cost unless circumstances indicate that different valuations are warranted.
c Capital gains and losses Realised and unrealised capital gains and losses, together with exchange differences arising on the translation of foreign currency assets and liabilities, are dealt with in the other capital reserves.
d Income Dividends receivable on equity shares are taken to the revenue account on an ex-dividend basis.
Income from nonequity shares is recognised on a time apportionment basis and, if material, so as to reflect the effective yield on the shares.
Income from fixed interest debt securities is recognised on a time apportionment basis and, if material, so as to reflect the effective yield on each such security.
Bank deposit interest is accounted for on an accruals basis.
e Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
In accordance with the b oards expectation, over the long term, that investment returns will be attributable 70% to capital gains and 30% to income, the Company charges to capital 70% of the finance costs and management fee.
Performances fees earned are allocated between capital and revenue based on the outperformance attributable to capital and revenue respectively.
f Taxation The tax effect of different items of expenditure is allocated between revenue and capital using the Companys effective rate of taxation for the year.
g Deferred taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred taxation is provided using the liability method on all timing differences, calculated at the rate at which it is anticipated the timing differences will reverse.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only when, on the basis of available evidence, it is more likely than not that there will be taxable profits in the future against which the deferred tax asset can be offset.
h Foreign currency Transactions denominated in overseas currencies during the year are translated into sterling at the appropriate daily exchange rate.
Assets and liabilities denominated in overseas currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate ruling at that date.
i Financial instruments Derivative instruments may be utilised by the Company.
A derivative instrument is considered to be used for hedging purposes when it alters the market risk profile of an existing underlying exposure of the Company.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption allowed under Financial Reporting Standard 13 and excluded short term debtors and creditors from disclosures under financial instruments where allowed see note 15 on pages 32 and 33.
