Glossary of T erms AITC pershare.
The Association of Investment Trust Companies.
Performance Attribution Analysis Benchmark A performance attribution analyses how the Company From 1 July 2005 the T otal Return of the FTSE AllShare achieved its recorded performance relative to its Index adjusted for a maximum 4% cap for any single benchmark.
This is broken down to show the effect of stock FTSE AllShare Index 4% capped.
Previously stock selection, gearing, expenses and the share issues the FTSE AllShare Index T otal Return.
In a falling market, the gearing effect will have a negative contribution to performance, Gearing whereas in a rising market it will have a positive The gearing percentage reflects the amount of borrowings contribution.
ie bank loans and debentures the Company has used to invest in the market.
This figure indicates the extra amount Premium Discount by which shareholders funds would move if the Companys The amount by which the market price per share of an investments were to rise or fall.
investment trust is either higher premium or lower discount than the NAV per share, expressed as a There are several methods of calculating gearing and the percentage of the NAV.
following has been selected: T otal Expense Ratio The difference between quoted investments and equity This is the total expenses incurred by the Company, shareholders funds equal to shareholders funds less the including those charged to capital, expressed as a preference stocks divided by equity shareholders funds percentage of the average shareholders funds over the and x 100. year.
W e have shown separately the percentage of management other expenses and the performance fee Investment Trusts when applicable.
Investment trusts are public limited companies, quoted on the London Stock Exchange, which provide shareholders T otal Returns with a professionally managed portfolio of investments.
This is the return on the share price or net asset value Investment trusts are exempt from tax on the capital gains taking into account both the rise and fall of share prices and arising on their investments.
Income, net of expenses and the dividends paid to shareholders.
Any dividends received tax, is substantially distributed to shareholders.
by a shareholder are assumed to have been reinvested in either additional shares for share price total return or the Net Asset Value NAV Per Ordinary Share Trusts assets for net asset value total return.
This is the The value of the Companys assets, ie, investments and same calculation shown as the value of 1,000 with net cash held, less any liabilities ie bank loans and income reinvested displayed on page 4. debentures for which the Company is responsible, divided by the number of shares in issue.
The aggregate NAV is Website also referred to as shareholders funds on the Balance Further information on the Company can be found on Sheet.
The NAV is published daily.
com NAV per Ordinary Share with debt at market value This is where the NAV is calculated by attributing market also called fair values to the preference preferred ordinary stocks and the debenture stocks rather than their par or book values.
The market values of these, and in particular the debentures, are higher than the par values due to the high coupon or interest rates they pay relative to the current low interest rates in the market.
Using a higher value for these liabilities reduces the NAV 39
