Corporate Governance continued to provide shareholders with a clear understanding of invited to do so by writing to the Company Secretary the Companys activities and their results.
This at the address given on page 44. information is supplemented by the daily calculation General presentations to both shareholders and and publication at the London and New Zealand analysts follow the publication of the annual results.
Stock Exchanges of the net asset value of the All meetings between the Investment Manager and Companys ordinary shares and a monthly fact sheet.
shareholders are reported to the Board.
The Board considers that shareholders should be The Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 41 encouraged to attend and participate in the Annual to 43 sets out the business of the meeting and the General Meeting, which is chaired by the Chairman special resolutions are explained more fully in the of the board and all directors normally attend.
Report of the Directors on pages 14 to 17.
Separate Shareholders have the opportunity to address resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue.
questions to the Chairman of the board, the Chairman of the Audit Committee and all other Exercise of Voting Powers directors at the meeting.
The Portfolio Manager, as The Company has approved a corporate governance the representative of the Investment Manager, makes voting policy which accords with current best a presentation to shareholders.
A summary of the practice whilst maintaining a primary focus on proxy votes received on the resolutions proposed is financial returns.
It is the intention of the Statement of Compliance board that the Annual Report and Accounts and The directors consider that the Company has Notice of Annual General Meeting be issued to complied with all material provisions of the shareholders so as to provide at least twenty working Code throughout the accounting period ended days notice of the meeting.
The Company is compliant with lodge questions in advance of the meeting are the AITC Code.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Accounts Company law requires the directors to prepare The directors are responsible for ensuring that accounts for each financial year which give a true and proper accounting records are kept which disclose fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial the net revenue of the Company for that year.
In position of the Company and enable them to ensure preparing those accounts, the directors are required to: that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding select suitable accounting policies and then apply the assets of the Company and hence for taking them consistently: reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of make judgements and estimates that are fraud and other irregularities.
reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
