Accounting policies a Format of financial statements The group financial statements are prepared in accordance with the special provisions of Part VII of the Companies Act 1985 relating to banking groups and those of the company in accordance with Section 226 of, and Schedule 4 to, the Companies Act 1985.
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and with Statements of Recommended Practice issued by the British Bankers Association and the Finance and Leasing Association.
b Accounting convention The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified by the revaluation of equity shares and debt securities.
c Fees and commissions receivable Fees in respect of services are recognised as the right to consideration accrues through performance of services for clients.
To the extent that fees and commissions are recognised in advance of the client being billed they are included as accrued income.
d Net dealing income Net dealing income includes the net profit arising from both buying and selling securities and from positions held in securities.
e Loans and advances Loans and advances are stated net of provisions against doubtful debts which are made on the basis of regular review by management.
The provision raised is an estimate of the amount needed to reduce the carrying value of the asset to its expected net realisable value and takes into account managements assessment of a combination of factors including each portfolio structure, characteristics of individual cases, past and expected credit losses and business and economic conditions.
f Finance leases, operating leases and instalment finance Finance leases are recognised as loans and are valued at the minimum lease payments receivable less finance charges.
Finance charges on both hire purchase obligations and leases are taken to income in proportion to the net funds invested after deducting, where applicable, a fixed percentage in respect of set-up costs.
Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account in equal annual amounts over the period of the leases.
g Equity shares and debt securities The long and short positions in equity shares and debt securities held for trading purposes represent the aggregate of trading positions in individual securities arising respectively from a net bought and net sold position.
They are valued at the dealers bid and offer prices respectively at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
Debt securities held for liquidity and investment purposes are included in the balance sheet at cost, net of provision for any material decline in market value.
Equity shares held for investment purposes are included in the balance sheet at mid market values if listed and at directors valuation if unlisted.
In accordance with UITF Abstract 38 on Accounting for ESOP Trusts, equity shares held by the employee benefit trust are deducted in arriving at shareholders funds.
Realised surpluses and deficits are not taken to the profit and loss account.
h Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provision for impairment in value.
i Depreciation Tangible fixed assets, including freehold investment properties held for long term investment, are held at cost less provision for impairment in value.
The provision for depreciation on tangible fixed assets is calculated to write off their cost over their estimated useful lives by equal annual instalments as follows: Fixtures, fittings and equipment 10% 33% Motor vehicles 25% Freehold and long leasehold property 2.5% Short leasehold property over the length of the lease No depreciation is provided in respect of freehold land, which is stated at cost.
j Foreign currencies Foreign currency deposits and advances are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign currency income and expenses are translated into sterling at the average rates of exchange over the year and translation differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the balance sheets of subsidiaries denominated in foreign currencies are taken to reserves through the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
k Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is provided in full on material timing differences, at the rates of taxation expected to apply when these differences crystallise, arising from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred taxation assets are recognised to the extent they are more likely than not to be recovered.
Deferred taxation balances are not discounted.
l Goodwill Before 1st August, 1998, goodwill arising on the acquisition of business assets, representing the excess of the purchase consideration over the fair value ascribed to the net tangible assets, was written off to reserves.
From 1st August, 1998, as required by Financial Reporting Standard No.
10, such goodwill arising has been capitalised in intangible assets and is amortised, in equal annual instalments, unless there is impairment, over its estimated useful life of up to 20 years.
m Pensions The cost of providing pensions is charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost for those employees in the defined benefits scheme over their expected service lives.
Contributions within defined contribution schemes are charged to the profit and loss account as they become payable in accordance with the rules of the schemes.
