148 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Index Item Page Item Page A I Accounting policies 91 Information management 37 Acquisitions 129 Intangible fixed assets 111 American Depositary Shares ADSs 140 Interest 98 Annual General Meeting 71 Internal controls 69 Auditors remuneration 97 J Auditors report 85 Joint ventures and associates 115 Audit committee 67 L B Leases 113, 126 Balance sheets 87, 90 Legal proceedings 58, 127 Board committees 67 Liquid resources 88 Board of directors 8 Borrowings facilities 56, 120 M Minority interests 86, 87 C Movement in shareholders funds 89 Capital expenditure 42 Cash flow statement 88 N Cautionary statement 1 Notes to the financial statements 93 Chairmans statement 4 O Charitable donations 34 Operating review 40 Chief executives review 6 Operating review Process Gas Solutions 42 Commitments 58, 126 Operating review Industrial and Special Products 44 Contact information 144 Operating review BOC Edwards 46 Contingent liabilities 58, 127 Operating review Afrox hospitals 47 Corporate governance 64 Operating review Gist 47 Creditors 118 Critical accounting policies 60 P Cross reference to Form 20-F 146 Pensions and retirement benefits 103 Profit and loss account 86 D Provisions for liabilities and charges 124 Debtors 117 Depreciation 113 R Directors interests 79 Ratios 55 Directors remuneration see Remuneration 78, 101 Registered office outside back cover Directors report 2 Registrars 144 Directors responsibilities statement 84 Related party transactions 62, 131 Directors service contracts 76 Remuneration 101 Disposals 129 Report on remuneration 72 Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP 144 Research and development 36 Dividends 111 Reserves 125 Donations see Charitable donations 34 Risk 38, 56, 69 E S Earnings per share 111 Safety see Social, environmental and ethical performance 28 Employees 23, 101 Segmental information 93 Employment policies 23 Share option and incentive schemes 102 Environment see Social, environmental and ethical performance 30 Share price 140 Exceptional items 40, 55, 97 Shareholder analysis 141 Exchange rates 62 Shareholder information 140 Executive management board 10 Social, environmental and ethical performance 26 Statement of total recognised gains and losses 89 F Stocks 116 Fair value of acquisitions 129 Strategy 22 Financial calendar 144 Substantial shareholdings 141 Financial highlights 2 Supplier payment policy 63 Financial instruments 120 Financial review 55 T Five year record 12 Tangible fixed assets 113 Taxation 98 G Total shareholder return 73 Glossary of terms 147 Going concern 63 U Goodwill 111 US GAAP information and reconciliations 132 Group profile 14 US investor information 142 Group undertakings 138 W H Website 144 Health see Social, environmental and ethical performance 30 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 The Groups objectives Over a sustained period, consistently to outperform our peers in terms of safety, customer service, revenue growth, earnings and cash generation.
We will be the employer of choice for all existing and future employees.
Who we are BOC employs over 30,000 people and earns a living in some 50 countries.
Over 80 per cent of our revenue comes from industrial gases and we serve customers in fields as diverse as electronics, chemicals and medical.
We are organised into three lines of business and a specialist logistics business, Gist.
Report of the directors Financial statements Shareholder information 02 Financial highlights 84 Responsibility of the 140 Dividends 04 Chairmans statement directors 140 Nature of trading market 06 Chief executives review 85 Report by the 141 Analysis of shareholdings 08 Board of directors independent auditors 142 Taxation 10 Executive management 86 Group profit and loss 144 Financial calendar board account 144 Key contacts information 12 Group five year record 87 Group balance sheet 146 Cross reference to 14 Group profile 88 Group cash flow Form 20-F 22 Strategy statement 147 Glossary of terms 23 Employees 89 Total recognised gains 148 Index 26 Social, environmental and and losses ethical performance 89 Movement in 36 Research, development shareholders funds and information 90 Balance sheet of technology The BOC Group plc 38 Risk factors 91 Accounting policies 40 Operating review 93 Notes to the financial The BOC Group plc 2005.
55 Financial review statements Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar London using RingMaster.
64 Corporate governance 138 Group undertakings Photography by Keith Waldegrave.
Printed by Royle Corporate Print.
72 Report on remuneration The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2005 The BOC Group plc Registered office: Chertsey Road, Windlesham, Surrey GU20 6HJ, England Tel: 01276 477222 Fax: 01276 471333 Registered in England No.
com BOC Report and accounts 2005 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2005 The BOC Group plc Registered office: Chertsey Road, Windlesham, Surrey GU20 6HJ, England Tel: 01276 477222 Fax: 01276 471333 Registered in England No.
com Making a difference The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2005 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2005 Shareholder information 41 BOC touches many peoples lives.
Dividend reinvestment plan American Depositary Shares A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP, through which Ordinary shareholders The BOC Group plc American Depositary Shares ADS are listed on the may invest the whole of their cash dividends in additional shares in the New York Stock Exchange and trade under the symbol BOX.
One ADS Few products in our modern company, is available.
Ordinary shareholders on the register at the record date represents two The BOC Group plc Ordinary shares.
JPMorgan Chase Bank may participate in the plan provided their application forms are received by N. A. is the depositary and their address for enquiries is: the DRIP notice date shown in the financial calendar on the previous page.
Copies of the explanatory brochure and application form are available on the world are made without industrial JPMorgan Service Center companys website www.
com or from Lloyds TSB Registrars whose PO Box 3408 details appear on the previous page.
South Hackensack, NJ 07606-3408, USA Telephone, toll free: US and Canada 1 800 990 1135 Payment of dividends or from outside the US 1 201 680 6630 gases playing some part.
Ordinary shareholders and loan stock holders may arrange to have their Website: www.
com shareholder dividends or interest paid directly into a bank or building society account through the Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS.
Mandate forms A dividend reinvestment plan is available through JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. are available on the companys website www.
com or from Lloyds TSB as depositary for holders of ADSs.
All enquiries regarding this plan should be Registrars whose details appear on the previous page.
Alternatively you can addressed to: set up a new, or change an existing, dividend mandate via the Lloyds TSB Global Invest Direct As an essential supplier to many Registrars shareview website at www.
co. uk In February of each JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. year a consolidated tax voucher relating to Ordinary dividend payments PO Box 3408 made via BACS during the financial year, will be mailed to the registered South Hackensack, NJ 07606-3408, USA address of the shareholder.
Loan stock holders will receive tax vouchers at Telephone, toll free: JPMorgan Service Center on 1 800 428 4237 of our customers we work the time of each interest payment in April and October, mailed directly to or from outside the US 1 201 680 6630 their registered address.
ShareGift Overseas dividend payments Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which makes it around the world, around the Private shareholders in 36 countries may now have their dividends paid uneconomic to sell them, may wish to consider donating them to the directly into their local bank accounts in their local currency.
There is a small charity ShareGift registered charity number 1052686.
A ShareGift fixed fee for the service, currently 2.50 per dividend.
The dividend payment, donation form can be obtained from Lloyds TSB Registrars whose details less the fee, is normally received within five working days of the dividend appear on the previous page.
Further information about ShareGift is payment date.
For more information, please contact Lloyds TSB Registrars clock making a difference.
org or by writing to: whose details appear on the previous page, or visit the companys website www.
ShareGift The Orr Mackintosh Foundation Share dealing services 46 Grosvenor Street For Internet and telephone share dealing services contact Lloyds TSB London W1K 3HN, England Registrars by either logging on to www.
co. uk dealing or by Telephone: 020 7337 0501 calling 0870 850 0852 between 8.30 am and 4.30 pm on any business day excluding bank holidays.
You will need your shareholder reference Unsolicited mail number shown on your share certificate.
The company is obliged by law to make its share register publicly available and as a consequence some shareholders may receive unsolicited mail.
If you wish Lloyds TSB Registrars also offer a postal share dealing service.
to limit the amount of unsolicited mail you receive, contact: For further information contact: The Mailing Preference Service Share Dealing Services FREEPOST 29 LON.
20771 Lloyds TSB Registrars London W1E OZT, England POBox 1357 Telephone: 0845 703 4599 or register on-line at www.
uk The Causeway, Worthing West Sussex BN99 6UB, England The Mailing Preference Service is an independent organisation which offers a free service to the public.
Registering with them will reduce most unsolicited consumer advertising material.
Special needs If you would like to receive this report in an appropriate alternative format, such as large print, Braille, or audio cassette, please contact Lloyds TSB Registrars on 0870 600 3958 or for shareholders with hearing difficulties on Teltex 0870 600 3950.
Annual General Meeting 2006 The Annual General Meeting will be held on Friday 27 January 2006 Contents 02 Financial highlights 27 Summary financial statements at the Institution of Electrical Engineers Lecture Theatre, Savoy Place, 02 2005 results 28 Report of the directors London WC2R 0BL, England commencing at 11.00 am.
04 Chairmans statement 30 Independent auditors statement 06 Chief executives review 31 Directors remuneration 08 Making a difference 34 Group profit and loss account 18 Operating review 35 Group balance sheet 22 Corporate responsibility 36 Group cash flow statement The BOC Group plc 2005.
24 Board of directors 36 Reconciliation of net cash flow Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar London.
26 Executive management board to movement in net debt Principal photography by George Brooks.
37 Notes to the financial statements Board photography by Keith Waldegrave.
40 Shareholder information 01 The Groups objectives Over a sustained period, consistently to outperform our peers in terms of safety, customer service, revenue growth, earnings and cash generation.
Process Gas Solutions Industrial and BOC Edwards Gist Process Gas Solutions installs Special Products Traditionally known for its BOCs specialist logistics and operates complex plants Industrial and Special Products vacuum and electronic gases business has transformed for some of the worlds largest delivers smaller volumes technology, BOC Edwards and now manages the supply and most demanding industrial of gas, related products now offers a broad range chains for commercial and customers.
It also delivers and services to a host of of products and services industrial organisations liquefied gases and runs businesses.
It supplies many for the semiconductor and operating in sectors as on-site plants for those of the basic requirements that other high technology growth diverse as grocery, retail requiring bulk supplies.
keep local industry working markets.
It also supplies and electronics.
Process Gas Solutions does around the world as well as vacuum products to a broad business wherever its key matching the complex needs cross-section of industries.
of medical, scientific and other specialist communities.
1 5 4 3 2 1 5 4 3 2 02 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2005 Financial highlights Turnover subsidiary companies Operating profit Profit before tax Earnings per share 2005 2005 2005 2005 3,754.7m 543.5m 593.6m 74.1p 2004 3,885.4m 2004 559.5m 2004 412.3m 2004 53.5p 2003 3,718.3m 2003 438.6m 2003 351.9m 2003 44.5p Turnover including share of joint ventures and associates Adjusted operating profit Adjusted profit before tax Adjusted earnings per share 2005 2005 2005 2005 4,605.0m 564.2m 505.7m 67.5p 2004 4,599.3m 2004 576.9m 2004 504.3m 2004 63.2p 2003 4,323.2m 2003 505.6m 2003 418.9m 2003 52.9p 2005 results Analysis by business Turnover including share of joint ventures and associates million % 1.
Gist 315.9 7 Total 4,605.0 100 Adjusted operating profit million % 1.
Gist 24.5 4 Corporate 32.2 6 Total 564.2 100 1 2 4 3 1 2 4 3 Financial highlights 03 Figures shown as adjusted exclude Dividends per share Return on capital employed exceptional items.
Other figures shown are prepared under UK Generally Accepted 2005 2005 Accounting Principles GAAP and include all exceptional items.
Adjusted figures are presented to provide a 41.2p 15.6% more meaningful indication of underlying business performance and trends.
These are 2004 40.0p 2004 14.9% the primary performance figures used by Group management.
2003 39.0p 2003 10.9% In accordance with guidance and regulations issued by UK and US regulatory bodies, where adjusted or non-GAAP figures are Adjusted return shown, the comparable GAAP figures are on capital employed also shown.
2005 16.2% 2004 15.4% 2003 12.6% Analysis by region Turnover including share of joint ventures and associates million % 1.
Asia Pacific 1,496.1 32 Total 4,605.0 100 Adjusted operating profit million % 1.
Asia Pacific 229.2 41 Total 564.2 100 04 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2005 Implementing our strategy effectively Chairmans statement Rewarding our shareholders Your board has again fully reviewed and In 2005 BOC raised its first interim dividend to 15.9p.
Combined approved BOCs strategy, which is being with the second interim dividend of 25.3p, this represents an increase of three per cent on the previous year as we continue to build effectively implemented by Tony Isaac and our dividend cover towards two-times over the medium term.
The strategy has Your board has decided to raise the first interim dividend to be paid on 1 February 2006 by 2.5 per cent to 16.3p.
seen BOC confirm its leading position in I have updated the graphs I have shown here every year since 2001.
Asia, develop a strong base in China and They show BOCs total shareholder return since October 2000 invest strongly in other growth markets.
compared with the FTSE100 and our major gases competitors.
We have continued to outperform the FTSE100.
Industrial gases It has seen a continuing commitment to companies have proved to be a rewarding investment over recent safety and to improve the efficiency and years and in the last year or so we have matched our competitors performance, although a gap remains from earlier years.
In his environmental performance of our review, Tony Isaac will explain in more detail how we have progressed operations.
It has seen the divestment this year.
of underperforming businesses allied to Corporate Governance a well implemented acquisition strategy.
This year your company has completed its work to comply with one new set of requirements, the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, and has made good progress on two others, namely changing over to International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and meeting the provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The quarterly results to be announced in February 2006 will be the first in accordance with IFRS.
We estimate that meeting the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley cost your company some 10 million this year.
We are likely to spend the same next year before the costs reduce somewhat.
BOC has to comply with these provisions because we are registered in the US, but being a complex and diverse business working globally means that the cost of such compliance is very high.
Next year we will, in common with all UK companies, publish an operating and financial review OFR as part of our annual report.
The intention of the OFR is to help you, our shareholders, assess our strategies and the likelihood of their success.
External checks and reporting requirements may help but I believe the best assurance for shareholders is to ensure high standards of integrity and transparency throughout the organisation, overseen by a strong and independent group of non-executive directors.
BOC has both Chairmans statement 05 of these.
It has a strong and well-implemented Code of Conduct and Board of Directors a management team committed to the principles of accountability, We appointed two new executive directors this year: Kent Masters, collaboration, transparency and stretch, known in BOC as ACTS.
chief executive for Industrial and Special Products, joined the board in March, replacing John Walsh who resigned to return to his native Your board regularly reviews the management of our social, United States: and Alan Ferguson joined in September as Group environmental and ethical risks.
These have now been integrated into finance director in place of Ren Mdori who resigned to take up a the companys overall risk management programme.
Each year our similar role at Anglo American.
Rebecca McDonald was appointed performance is judged against criteria set by the UKs Business in the as a non-executive director in July.
Rebecca is president, gas and Community BiTC.
To be as transparent as possible we publish on power, for BHP Billiton.
During the year two non-executive directors our website, boc.
com, both our comprehensive submission to BiTC resigned: Iain Napier, following his appointment as deputy chairman of and its independent assessment of our performance.
Imperial Tobacco, and Julie Baddeley because of increasing demands An important feature of BOCs corporate responsibility programme is on her time.
John Walsh and Ren Mdori each served BOC for to enable people at all levels of the organisation to become involved some 20 years, Iain Napier and Julie Baddeley for a somewhat shorter and support things that matter to them.
Our joint giving scheme is an time, and I would like to thank them all for their contributions.
This year countries around the Indian Ocean suffered from Every year we review the performance of the board and each the appalling effects of the tsunami.
Our businesses in the countries individual director.
In alternate years, which included 2005, we affected responded immediately with medical oxygen and with conduct these reviews with external facilitation.
They confirmed other practical help.
BOC extended its joint giving scheme to match that each director contributes effectively and is committed to his two-to-one our employees donations to the relief effort for both the or her role at BOC.
BOC again responded when the Pakistan earthquake struck in October 2005.
In total the community Thanks of BOC gave over 570,000 to the tsunami appeal and we await the BOCs 30,000 people around the world provide products and final totals for hurricane Katrina and the Pakistan earthquake.
services that are essential to everyday life.
I thank them for their One of our US subsidiaries, along with other companies in the dedication and professionalism.
I thank the customers they serve for welding products industry, has been the subject of allegations that entrusting their business to BOC.
I thank all those with whom we manganese in welding fumes causes Parkinsons disease or symptoms work and in the communities where we operate for their support.
Again this year there were no adverse jury And I thank you, our shareholders, for your continuing support.
verdicts: the only adverse jury verdict was in 2003 and this is the subject of appeal in the Illinois court system.
Total shareholder return Rob Margetts October 2000 October 2005 Chairman BOC relative to FTSE100 compared Total shareholder return with major gases companies since 1 October 2000 relative to respective local indices Percentage Percentage 90 120 BOC 100 FTSE100 60 80 30 60 0 40 -30 20 Oct-00 Oct-01 Oct-02 Oct-03 Oct-04 Oct-05 0 BOC relative Other gases to FTSE100 companies 06 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2005 Chief executives review In the year, the biggest structural change in the Group was the 2005 was a year of underlying strong reduction in our ownership of Afrox hospitals.
Elsewhere, among performance punctuated by events that the highlights, we continued our penetration of the north American refinery market with a string of new hydrogen orders, maintained the challenged and brought out the best in pace of our developments in China, and saw BOC Edwards enter BOC and its people.
We continue to see into an important customer relationship in Korea.
In contrast, events such as the Asian tsunami, the London bombings, hurricane Katrina an accelerating rise in energy prices, the and most recently the Pakistan earthquake saw BOC businesses move of manufacturing activity from higherhelping where they could, notably with medical gases, and BOC people giving freely of their time and money.
to lower-cost economies and relatively slow Against this background BOC produced good results, with turnover growth in an historical context for the similar to last year at 4,605.0 million, adjusted operating profit down semiconductor industry.
Faced with these three per cent to 564.2 million, adjusted profit before tax down one per cent at 505.7 million and record adjusted earnings per share long-term trends we have responded by of 67.5p.
Adjusted figures eliminate exceptional items.
Year-on-year investing for growth while concentrating on comparisons at constant currency show the performance of our businesses in the markets where they operate without any distortions energy efficiency, cost containment and high from changes in the sterling exchange rate.
Our statutory results levels of customer service.
include exceptional items and reflect currency movements and on this basis turnover was similar to last year with operating profit down by three per cent and profit before tax up by 44 per cent.
Our two gases lines of business, Process Gas Solutions and Industrial and Special Products, contribute over 80 per cent of Group operating profit and both of them made good progress.
Process Gas Solutions continues to increase the percentage of its business that comes from long-term tonnage schemes, with the emphasis recently on winning hydrogen contracts and building on our strong position in Asia, and particularly in China.
There has been a steady flow of new orders with some 500 million of new plant due to enter service over the next couple of years.
Our Process Systems team works closely with customers to identify and deliver solutions for their industrial gases needs.
This approach has seen us win a disproportionate share of the new business available.
In China our success has been founded on our willingness to enter joint ventures with our key customers, enabling us to share the risks and rewards of Chinas industrial growth.
Our joint venture plant building operation, Linde BOC Process Plants, gives us reliable and cost-effective plant to fulfil our customers needs.
This year Process Gas Solutions grew turnover by 16 per cent and adjusted operating profit by nine per cent.
Chief executives review 07 Industrial and Special Products continues to extract value from its We had another good year for cash generation, helped by the Afrox extensive distribution network and its high standards of product Healthcare disposal.
With our strong balance sheet we are in a good stewardship.
The core industrial business continues to evolve as position to fund our growth projects, notably the ones already won manufacturing processes change.
We now offer a wider range of by Process Gas Solutions and those still in the pipeline.
products and services to our industrial customers.
We have Safety remains our number one priority.
It is unacceptable that anyone developed sizeable businesses based on liquefied petroleum gas LPG is hurt in the course of our business and we continue to emphasise and in several of our markets we are taking advantage of similar that safety must be 100 per cent of our behaviour, 100 per cent opportunities for safety products.
Our medical business, which serves of the time.
At the start of this report we set out our objectives as a hospitals and delivers oxygen therapy to patients in their homes, is Group.
We intend to outperform our competitors and to do this we continuing to grow, particularly in Asia.
The special products portfolio must be the employer of choice for talented people.
We are working is also developing well, serving growth markets with products such as hard on all aspects of our business to achieve these objectives.
helium, packaged chemicals, refrigerants and propellants.
Industrial and Special Products saw turnover decline by four per cent following Three members of the executive management board resigned the sale of the US packaged gas business last year, while adjusted this year.
Ren Mdori became group finance director for Anglo operating profit rose by six per cent as profitability improved in American plc while John Walsh and Rob Lourey returned with their the US.
families to new jobs in their home countries of the United States and Australia respectively.
I wish all of them success in their new BOC Edwards core semiconductor market remained broadly stable careers and thank them for their contributions to BOC.
Kent Masters without returning to the activity levels seen last year.
Despite this, was appointed chief executive, Industrial and Special Products, in BOC Edwards continued to improve its market position and March and James Cullens joined the executive management board in embarked on a restructuring programme to achieve cost savings.
April as Group human resources director.
Alan Ferguson joined us as It saw an increase in turnover of two per cent with adjusted operating Group finance director in September from Inchcape plc.
I thank our employees for their hard work over the past year and Gist saw some organic growth from new and existing customers for their continued emphasis on high standards of customer service.
and towards the end of the year it expanded into Europe with the I thank our customers, our shareholders, our suppliers and those with acquisition of Van Dongen, a  transport whom we work on a daily basis.
BOC contributes to the economic business operating in a number of countries.
In November 2005 life of many countries around the world and I thank you all for helping it extended until 2011 its contract to manage the distribution of us to do so.
Marks & Spencers chilled and ambient food.
This provides long-term security for a significant portion of Gists business.
Gists turnover for the year rose eight per cent while adjusted operating profit fell by two per cent, impacted by higher pension and compliance costs.
In March we disposed of most of our shareholding in Afrox Healthcare Limited to a consortium led by two major black Tony Isaac empowerment investors.
Our African Oxygen Limited subsidiary Chief executive retains a 20 per cent interest in the business.
We received the disposal proceeds in March.
Afrox Healthcare was a large employer and its disposal has reduced the number of Group employees by over 10,000.
The disposal also had the effect of reducing the Groups earnings per share by approximately one penny this year and an expected further one penny in 2006.
Strong underlying performance 08 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2005 Making a difference BOC has grown its hydrogen business by 30 per cent each year since the turn of the century.
Underlying this surge in growth are environmental concerns and the desire of refiners to extract as much of the most valuable products as possible from increasingly expensive barrels of oil.
Getting the most from a precious resource 09 Oil refiners face tough legal limits on the amount of sulphur allowed refineries in Ohio.
Elsewhere in Ohio BOC is building a further plant in gasoline and diesel fuel while at the same time they have to deal to serve Valero, while at Salt Lake City in Utah a new plant will begin with increasing quantities of sour crude, containing five per cent or supplying hydrogen to Chevron and Holly refineries in 2006. more sulphur.
It reacts with sulphur in the Hydrogen holds the promise of revolutionising energy supply later presence of a catalyst and the resulting hydrogen sulphide can be in this century as sources of hydrocarbon fuel are further depleted.
Until then it will play its role, helping to maximise the benefits from In 2000 BOC opened the largest hydrogen plant in the southern each barrel of oil and minimising the environmental impact.
hemisphere at BPs Bulwer Island refinery in Australia.
In 2002 it built Englands largest hydrogen plant to serve Huntsmans chemical plant on Teesside.
And in 2004 it acquired its first plant serving the petrochemical complex on the Gulf coast of the US.
Since then a series of refinery contracts has been won across the US.
One of the largest hydrogen plants in north America will supply BP and Sunoco 10 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2005 Making a difference Its becoming a flat world Flat panel televisions are some of the hottest consumer products around.
The leading variant, TFT-LCD, is based on liquid crystal display technology that has been around since the1970s but really only started to make its commercial mark in the early1990s.
Since then the industry has grown at such a pace that it has spent well in excess of US$40 billion on production equipment and facilities since 2000.
11 The TFT-LCD market has many similarities to the semiconductor BOC Edwards works with fleet-footed industries where product market that BOC Edwards has served successfully for many years: cycles are counted in months and multibillion dollar markets develop vacuum, gases, chemical management and exhaust abatement are just as quickly.
It has to be equally fleet of foot.
It is established as a all needed.
The difference is that semiconductor manufacturers leading equipment supplier to the new generation of 300mm are making their devices ever smaller, while the flat panel makers semiconductor fabs as well as to the TFT-LCD sector.
are busy building plants to make larger and larger products.
The major manufacturers of TFT-LCD displays are based in Engineers have overcome the manufacturing constraints that limited Asia, as are many of the leading semiconductor manufacturers.
TFT-LCD displays to screen sizes of less than 20 inches, or 51cm, In common with other parts of the Group, BOC Edwards has at the end of the 1990s and displays up to 65 inches, or 165cm, built its Asian presence over many years.
As its customers seek are now commercially available.
To reduce costs, these large displays out the markets of the future, BOC Edwards is there to serve them.
are made on huge glass panels more than two metres wide and less than one mm thick.
These are then bonded together to sandwich the liquid crystal and cut to size.
12 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2005 Making a difference 13 More than just gas Industrial and Special Products ISP makes much of its money from selling small volumes of gas to large numbers of customers.
It also sells them a variety of products and services to help them do their jobs more efficiently.
And it has a well deserved reputation for doing all this safely.
These traditional strengths of ISP are also the foundations for new growth businesses.
It has carved a niche for itself in the supply of safety products, such as personal protective equipment for use at work and in the home.
Large customers such as New Zealand Steel have entrusted us to source and supply products to keep their employees safe.
In our retail Gas and Gear stores customers can buy these same safety products straight off the shelves and increasingly these stores offer a wider range of consumer goods, such as power tools and accessories for the home handyman.
ISP also knows how to handle large volumes of potentially hazardous or  products and to package them safely in smaller containers more suitable for our customers.
We have used this expertise to grow our packaged chemicals business.
We sell hydrocarbon propellants that are used in consumer products as diverse as shaving foam and hair spray.
We have a refrigerants business that now operates globally, providing products for everything from supermarket chilled displays to the air conditioning systems in cars.
New ideas combined with the skills of ISP and the strength of its distribution network produce new business opportunities and these profitable additions are often about more than just gas.
14 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2005 Making a difference Shoppers on Britains busy high streets rely on BOC for some of the better things in life.
Industrial gases are used in the manufacture of most things we buy and Gist plays a big part in getting these goods to the shops.
Modern retailing relies on efficient logistics.
It sounds a simple task to get whats needed, where its needed, when its needed.
But, if the process doesnt work well, shelves can stand empty or excess product can reach its sell-by date.
A lot of technology is hidden behind the scenes.
Goods checked into Gists warehouses are picked and despatched to individual stores within hours.
Despite congested roads and town centre locations, our drivers are often given only a 15 minute time window in which to make each delivery.
As with our gases delivery fleet, sophisticated scheduling systems work out the best initial sequence and route for each journey.
Satellite tracking systems can follow a trucks progress, using traffic and accident information to update the schedule and avoid delays.
For some Marks & Spencer deliveries, specialised double-deck vehicles have been introduced, making journeys even more efficient.
The aim is to get the job done in the fewest miles with the lowest possible fuel consumption.
The unseen presence on the high street 15 16 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2005 Making a difference Growing countries need steel and Chinese growth has recently provided a healthy export market for many of the worlds traditional steel manufacturers.
Chinese steel producers, many of which are already large by world standards, are also expanding to meet domestic demand and BOC has partnerships with two of the most important.
Continued growth in China 17 Taiyuan Iron and Steel TISCO is already the largest manufacturer Ma Steel, on the banks of the Yangtze River, is the fifth largest steel of stainless steel in China and is among the top ten in the world.
producer in China and rated world-class by industry consulting When its current expansion programme is complete it will be the firm World Steel Dynamics.
Already a major supplier for the largest stainless steel producer on a single site anywhere in the world.
construction and railway industries, it is targeting the fast growing As an integrated manufacturer it can supply 90 per cent of its iron automotive industry and will produce high quality flat steel products ore and coke needs from its own nearby mining operations.
BOC is that are currently imported.
BOC has a joint venture with Ma Steel a long time partner of TISCO and next year two new air separation that will see a further two 1,400 tonnes-a-day air separation units units will come on stream, delivering a further 2,800 tonnes a day of installed at the site.
As China develops, BOC is there contributing to industries as diverse as chemicals and electronics.
Some of its earliest investments were in support of the steel industry and steel remains one of the major forces driving Chinas growth.
18 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2005 Top: Japan Air Gases new New capacity for the Remote operations centres Top: Food equipment is now plant comes on stream.
Nanjing BOC-YPC joint drive improved plant efficiency.
Bottom: A ground-breaking Bottom: The electronic ceremony for BOC Indias packaging market continues new plant at Bellary.
Operating review BOC reports results on a statutory basis and also in a Some of our older plants also experienced reliability issues during the form that isolates the impact of currency movements year, leading to some lost production.
These issues were promptly from year to year and eliminates the impact of exceptional corrected.
Overall, levels of plant efficiency have been much increased or non-recurring items.
BOCs management believes this by the introduction of operations centres which now remotely control second approach will assist shareholders in comparing the majority of our large plants around the world.
Where exceptional Much of the growth remained focused on Asia and on China in or non-recurring items are eliminated the results are particular.
Continuing Chinese demand for steel in the first half of referred to as adjusted.
the year led to high levels of production by steelmakers around the Turnover and operating profit details on each basis for world as well as providing investment opportunities in China itself.
each line of business and specialist business will be found In the US, demand for hydrogen to remove sulphur in the production at the start of each section.
The discussion of business of cleaner fuels to meet environmental regulations also generated performance that follows is based on figures adjusted for new business opportunities.
For the merchant market, we have exceptional items and constant currency.
established a new food equipment manufacturing facility in Thailand and introduced successful new applications such as cryowave freezing Process Gas Solutions technology and a process for thinly slicing products such as salami and luncheon meat for the north American market.
2005 Change on Change on 1 million 2004 2004 In Asia three new plants came on stream in China, one serving the Turnover 1,466.3 15% 16% Nanjing BOC-YPC Gases joint venture and two for joint venture of which Europe 332.3 13% 12% operations in southern China.
Four large 1,400 tonnes-a-day air separation units are also at various stages of completion, two for Americas 631.5 21% 25% the joint venture serving the Taiyuan Iron and Steel Corporation in Africa 38.6 7% 4% north-central China and two for the joint venture formed this year Asia Pacific 463.9 10% 10% with Maanshan Iron & Steel in Anhui province.
Steel and chemicals Operating profit 207.2 9% 10% have driven tonnage growth across the region.
The merchant liquid 2 Adjusted operating profit 207.2 9% 9% business is also growing in China, Korea, Taiwan, Thailand and Malaysia 1.
as industries such as electronic packaging and food freezing continue 2.
Adjusted operating profit excludes exceptional items.
Our Japan Air Gases joint venture has seen the successful completion of its integration programmes and brought on stream a Process Gas Solutions continued to grow as new plants came on 2,100 tonnes-a-day plant serving a major steel customer.
In India stream and economic activity linked to steel, petrochemicals and BOC signed a 15 year contract to supply Jindal Vijaynagar Steel with refining remained high.
Turnover increased more than adjusted 1,400 tonnes a day of oxygen and nitrogen.
operating profit because of a change in the terms of a supply scheme contract in the US and higher energy costs, which rose to record levels.
Natural gas is a feedstock in some of our processes and we endeavour to pass on increased gas costs directly to our customers.
Electricity represents most of the cost of running our air separation units and again we seek to recoup higher costs through higher prices.
In both cases, this inflates revenue numbers without increasing profit.
Operating review 19 The worlds largest nitrogen Top: BOC supporting US merchant plants close to complex in Mexico.
Bottom: Cryostar supplies systems for ships carrying natural gas.
In north America, the tonnage business saw strong demand Industrial and Special Products from steel producers moderate in the second half of the year.
2005 Change on Change on 1 million 2004 2004 Higher energy prices led to increased demand for carbon dioxide for injection into rock formations to enhance the recovery of oil and Turnover 1,721.7 3% 4% gas.
Price surcharges were imposed in the merchant market in of which Europe 467.0 4% 3% response to rising fuel prices.
Merchant plants in particular regions Americas 322.3 24% 23% of the US are operating close to capacity and a decision was taken Africa 272.3 18% 19% to build a new 720 tonnes-a-day air separation unit in Georgia to serve the large and growing market in the south-eastern states.
Asia Pacific 660.1 3% 4% Our water services business continues to develop in the industrial, Operating profit 289.4 14% 13% rather than the municipal, market with new customers based in the 2 Adjusted operating profit 289.4 7% 6% food, refining and chemical sectors.
scheduled five-year maintenance programme for the existing four 2.
modules of the worlds largest nitrogen complex serving off-shore Industrial and Special Products generated increased adjusted operating oil fields in the Gulf of Mexico.
In parallel, work began on the profit despite reduced turnover.
The turnover decline largely reflects construction of a fifth module which is due to enter service during the sale in July 2004 of our packaged gas business in the US and the financial year 2007. sale in December 2004 of the Unique Gas Petrochemicals business in Australia benefited from increased demand not only for steel from Thailand.
The growth in adjusted operating profit was a combination China but also for a range of minerals, such as nickel and copper.
of good performance from a reduced cost base by our substantial This trend helped compensate for the loss of volume following the remaining business in the US, continuing benefits from well-integrated closure last year of Port Kembla Copper.
As elsewhere, electricity acquisitions in Poland and Canada, and robust performance from costs rose, resulting in higher prices, while productivity improvements other parts of the world.
In Poland growth comes not only from an counteracted increases in labour costs driven by skills and labour improving economy but also from BOC introducing tried and tested shortages.
In South Africa consumer demand drove economic growth concepts such as cylinder rental and hospitality gases into this new which fed through to increased steel and stainless steel production market.
BOC manages its Industrial and Special Products line of and growing demand for liquid nitrogen for food freezing.
Throughout business as three global entities industrial products, medical and the country liquid gas production for the merchant market is very special products and ensures it transfers knowledge quickly through close to capacity.
best operating and commercial practice programmes.
In Europe, Poland continues to benefit from the long-term trend of industrial capacity moving from higher cost economies.
The UK, on the other hand, saw further industrial closures, exacerbated by the largest energy price increases in the region.
Irelands economy continues to grow, but the emphasis is now on service industries that are not extensive users of industrial gases.
Our specialist business, Cryostar, had another successful year following further orders for liquefied natural gas ships for which it supplies a range of equipment.
20 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2005 Operating review Top: New medical cylinders Work starts on the new helium BOC has large LPG businesses Strong demand from western introduced in South Africa.
transfill site at Thame in in South Africa and Australia.
Canadas oil and gas industries.
Bottom: New format for Gas and Gear stores in Australia.
The industrial products business continues to respond to underlying The medical business continues to grow, spurred by increased trends that have seen manufacturing activity move to lower-cost healthcare spending, the introduction of innovative gas packages, environments.
This has typically been characterised as a move from and the development of applications in consultation with healthcare the western economies to those of Asia, but within Asia core industrial professionals.
In South Africa the business won two important tenders markets have moved from places such as Hong Kong and Taiwan to to supply home oxygen therapy to all state patients and to supply all mainland China.
Elsewhere, in some Asian countries such the governments gas, the great majority of which is for medical as Singapore, service and other industries that are not large users of purposes, and welding needs.
industrial gases are coming more to the fore.
Growth areas for The market for special products grew in the UK, as in other countries.
industrial products include the Indian subcontinent, Thailand, A new helium transfill site is being established at Thame to meet South Africa and China, where the automotive market is a significant demand in southern England that has outgrown the existing site at factor, particularly for argon-based gases.
Our joint venture, Indura, Leeds.
Further transfills have been added or developed to meet in Latin America performed well.
Our South African and south Pacific increased demand in China, Taiwan and Korea.
A container staging businesses both feature large liquefied petroleum gas LPG operations facility was also commissioned in Dubai to manage deliveries from a that are growing in volume but are subject to major changes in input new helium source in Qatar.
In Australia a new packaged chemicals costs in common with other energy sources.
Managing the resulting plant is being developed at Wagga Wagga in New South Wales to rapid price changes is an important factor in maintaining profit margins.
meet the growth needs for these products.
We also completed the This year the LPG businesses had to manage record cost increases as first stage of upgrading our Johannesburg facility in South Africa, well as the warmest winter on record in Australia.
commissioned a regional production facility for scientific gases and In developed economies the industrial products business has packaged chemicals in Thailand, and expanded our packaged maintained its position by extending the range of products and chemicals business in Canada, Asia and Latin America.
A small services it offers in areas such as safety.
In New Zealand, for instance, acquisition from Calor this year in the UK extended the range of BOC was successful in a tender to become the primary supplier of propellants the business can offer for consumer products such as safety and personal protective equipment to New Zealand Steel.
shaving foam and spray-on deodorants.
In Ireland our hospitality The business has also adjusted its infrastructure to reflect changes in business has expanded into cellar services, servicing the cellar market demand: this year, for example, the dissolved acetylene plant equipment for a major brewer.
at Derby was closed with all acetylene production for the UK now centralised at Bristol.
Changes such as these have enabled the UK BOC Edwards business to maintain its position despite the fundamental decline in UK 2005 Change on Change on 1 million 2004 2004 manufacturing.
Our business in the US concentrates on delivering bulk supplies to distributors and industrial customers whereas in Canada Turnover 826.0 1% 2% the business has benefited from increased exploitation of western Operating profit 17.4 63% 63% Canadas oil and gas reserves.
BOC Edwards main market is the semiconductor industry to which it supplies vacuum, exhaust and chemical dispense products for new plants, and material and gases for use in the production process at existing plants.
This year the demand for equipment for new Operating review 21 Fluorine generators under test.
Top: BOC Edwards pumps Gists new warehouse opens used to manufacture in Bedford.
Bottom: Pumps being assembled for the Asian market.
semiconductor plants was down while existing plants reduced Gist production levels to match lower demand and trim inventory levels, 2005 Change on Change on 1 million 2004 2004 particularly in the US.
The liquid crystal display LCD flat screen display market that has risen significantly in recent years also paused in Turnover 315.9 8% 8% its growth this year.
The result for BOC Edwards was lower turnover Operating profit 24.5 2% 2% and adjusted operating profit to which it responded by reducing 2 Adjusted operating profit 24.5 2% 2% operating and overhead costs.
Among initiatives to reduce production 1.
costs it has moved some manufacturing to the Czech Republic, 2.
established the manufacture of fluorine generators and the assembly Gist continues to perform well in what has been a challenging of pumps for semiconductor and LCD applications in Korea, and marketplace.
Revenue grew satisfactorily but higher pension costs started assembling vacuum systems in Brazil to serve the Latin in particular prevented a similar rise in operating profit.
BOC Edwards has also established a freeze dryer existing customer base growth came from Marks & Spencer, joint venture together with the manufacture of general vacuum Gists largest customer, as it opened more of its Simply Food stores systems in China.
and from the continued expansion of Ocado.
New business wins Despite general market weakness, BOC Edwards developed its included Woolworths, which is now served from a new distribution leading position in 300mm semiconductor wafer fabs and the new centre at Bedford.
Towards the end of the year Gist expanded into generation 7 LCD manufacturing facilities.
There was an increase in Europe with the purchase of the Van Dongen logistics business, which sales of new sub-systems that combine both vacuum and exhaust added significantly to Gists primary distribution capabilities.
Within technologies and it introduced a new range of pumps that are able weeks, this wider network produced additional business between the to meet the higher-volume pumping demands of the new, large UK and continental Europe from a number of existing and new LCD fabs.
A range of gases is used in semiconductor and LCD manufacturing Afrox hospitals and BOC Edwards has been awarded gas supply contracts for a On 22 March 2005 African Oxygen Limited Afrox, BOCs South number of new fabs being built in China.
It is also adding further African subsidiary, completed the disposal of Afrox Healthcare Limited capacity at Hsinchu in Taiwan and has gained an important entry to a consortium led by two major black economic empowerment position with Samsung in Korea.
The new fluorine generator business investors.
Afrox retains a significant interest in the hospitals business is also progressing well with installations for both semiconductor and through a 20 per cent holding in the new company.
Looking to the future, BOC Edwards has established or began in November 2003 when Afrox announced its intention to sell developing positions in immersion lithography, liquid abatement for to the consortium.
Afrox Healthcare Limited performed consistently copper-based processes, plasma abatement for etch applications, during the first six months of the year, during which it remained in which includes the recycling of high global warming potential BOCs control, growing turnover by seven per cent and adjusted Perfluorocarbon PFC gases, and the application of xenon for lasers operating profit by 11 per cent.
It has also developed a new type of turbomolecular pump that is more efficient, smaller and has reduced vibration.
The market for general vacuum products was better in Asia and for aerospace metallurgy and chemicals applications.
The market for pharmaceutical systems remained strong, although the emphasis moved from larger to smaller projects.
22 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2005 Top: Safety training in the BOC sells a range of BOC helps fund the Salters south Pacific.
 festival of chemistry at the refrigerants.
University of Surrey in the UK.
Bottom: BOC supports the Rotary Youth Driver Awareness programme in Australia.
Corporate responsibility In December 2004 the Asian tsunami devastated coastal communities Safety is the number one priority in BOC.
It has traditionally been around the Indian Ocean: in September the hurricane season saw measured by counting the number and severity of incidents and Katrina bring death and hardship to the southern United States: and injuries.
We continue to measure these and to see an improvement in in October the south Asian earthquake killed many thousands and performance.
Now we also measure and report leading indicators of made millions more homeless.
Each of these natural disasters affected safety things that, if we get them right, will have an impact on safety countries where BOC and its employees earn their living.
Thankfully in the future, such as training, the speed of rectifying faults, and the all our employees and their immediate families survived these disasters quality of investigations into incidents.
It is unacceptable that anyone and the local BOC businesses and the global community of BOC is hurt in the course of us doing our business, which is why we combined to do what they could in the aftermath.
BOCs matchedconcentrate on making safety 100 per cent of our behaviour, giving schemes ensured that employee donations counted for more, 100 per cent of the time.
In Australia our business there has built on amounting to over 570,000 in total for the victims of the tsunami.
BOCs own commitment to safety by sponsoring the Rotary Youth The response of local teams was epitomised by BOC Pakistan: the Driver Awareness road safety programme.
Young drivers in their company gave money and emergency material and three days paid last years at school are helped to understand the dangers of driving.
leave for every employee to help in the earthquake relief effort and In the words of one attendee the course is a very important step the employees themselves gave two days pay to the relief fund having in educating young drivers and making them safer when behind already, like their colleagues in Bangladesh, given one days pay to the the wheel of a car.
If examples were needed, these disasters show BOC operates in a hazardous industry, which is why safety is one aspect of the role of business in communities and of the innate the priority, but we need to manage a range of other social, generosity of people confronted by others misery.
Our Code of Conduct was BOC makes a contribution to the economies where it works in many launched three years ago and is now established in all our businesses.
It provides essential products to industry and commerce and a The challenge now is to make sure it is sustained and we have a livelihood for its employees, while striving to make the work programme to do this.
We have a help line that is available, free of environment as safe as possible.
It delivers technologies that minimise charge, in 49 countries.
Employees can speak to an independent some of the potentially harmful environmental effects of economic organisation, anonymously if they wish, and raise any concerns they development while doing what it can to reduce its own emissions and may have.
Our employee policies and procedures are aligned with the waste.
And it supports worthwhile projects that reflect the character United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and of its business and the wishes of its employees.
we have signed the UNs Global Compact and incorporated its ten principles in the BOC Code of Conduct.
For the first time this year the regular Voice of BOC survey was sent to every employee in the Group, either electronically or on paper.
Some 68 per cent responded, which is a very high level for such surveys, and they told us we were doing well on safety, employee well-being, the Code of Conduct, performance reviews, collaboration and diversity but needed to focus more on customers and engage employees more.
Corporate responsibility 23 Art from employees and their Where Theres Water BOC Singapore employees children features in the BOC funds school projects in pack tsunami relief aid.
Again this year BOC participated in Business in the Communitys Schools and education are supported by BOC through our Inspiring BiTC corporate responsibility index.
The completed qualifying Gases programme run in co-operation with the Royal Society of questionnaire has grown to over 130 pages, making it one of the Chemistry.
Helping young people develop an interest in science, most comprehensive analyses of an organisations performance.
and in chemistry in particular, is important for our business and for We publish the completed questionnaire, together with BiTCs our wider economic welfare.
Chemistry can be fun and this year assessment of our performance, on boc.
This is the most BOC supported the Institution of Chemical Engineers seventh world transparent way of reporting what we do and more efficient than congress in Glasgow by staging a spectacular show called Its a Gas answering a multiplicity of bespoke questionnaires.
at the Glasgow Science Centre which, not surprisingly, used bangs, pops, flames and vapour clouds to show the properties of gases to Industrial gases have many environmentally friendly applications.
Using oxygen instead of air in many combustion processes reduces the levels of harmful emissions.
BOC is already helping deliver cleaner fuels today through the use of hydrogen in oil refining and it is investing in hydrogen technology that holds the promise of a more environmentally friendly future.
Its partnerships include a trial project that combines solar power and hydrogen fuel cell technology for water management systems in the UK, the development of hydrogen systems to power forklift trucks operating in north American warehouses, and a prototype hydrogen powered sports car whose only emission is water.
Elsewhere, BOC has combined with Australias research organisation CSIRO to develop an environmentally safe fumigant to replace methyl bromide in agriculture.
The BOC Foundation continues to fund environmentally promising technologies.
It seeks projects involving air and water quality that are beyond the early research phase but need help getting to the stage where they can be widely adopted and applied.
In New Zealand, BOCs Where Theres Water community environment grants programme has now been running for three years: this year most of its grants went to schools running water conservation projects.
24 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2005 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Board of directors Rob Margetts CBE Ll 01 Andrew Bonfield PpL 04 59, chairman.
He is chairman of Legal & Appointed in July 2003.
He is chief financial officer of Bristol-Myers General Group plc, a non-executive director of Anglo American plc Squibb Company.
He qualified as a chartered accountant in South and chairman of the Natural Environment Research Council.
Africa, working for Price Waterhouse, before joining SmithKline Previously he was with ICI PLC for 31 years, becoming a main Beecham in 1990 and rising to become chief financial officer in 1999. board director in 1992 and vice chairman in 1998.
He is a fellow He joined BG Group plc in 2001 as executive director, finance, of both the Royal Academy of Engineering and the Institution of before assuming his current role at Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Chemical Engineers.
Tony Isaac LlEe 02 Guy Dawson PpLl 05 64, chief executive.
Appointed an executive director in October 1994 and became chief Appointed in March 2004.
He was chairman of European investment executive in May 2000.
He was previously finance director of Arjo banking at Merrill Lynch until 2003.
Before joining Merrill Lynch in Wiggins Appleton plc, which he joined shortly before the demerger 1995 he held senior positions in Morgan Grenfell and Deutsche Bank.
from BAT Industries p. l. c. in 1990.
Prior to that he had been finance He is a founding partner in Tricorn, an independent corporate director of GEC Plessey Telecommunications Ltd since its formation advisory business that he co-founded in 2003, and he is also a in 1988.
He is a non-executive director of International Power plc and non-executive director of Boots Group PLC.
Schlumberger Ltd. Alan Ferguson lEe 06 John Bevan Ee 03 47, group finance director.
48, chief executive, Process Gas Solutions.
Appointed an executive director in September 2005.
Prior to joining Appointed an executive director in December 2002.
He joined BOC as group finance director he held a similar role with Inchcape BOC in 1978 in Australia and has held various positions in general plc, which he joined in 1983 having qualified as a chartered management in Australia, Korea, Thailand and the UK.
He was accountant with KPMG.
He has a degree in business economics formerly chief executive Asia, responsible for BOCs operations in from Southampton University.
He has a degree in commerce marketing from the University of New South Wales.
Kent Masters Ee 07 44, chief executive, Industrial and Special Products.
Appointed an executive director in March 2005.
He joined BOC in 1985 and has held positions of increasing responsibility in engineering, marketing and general management, most recently, president, Process Gas Solutions, north America.
He holds an engineering degree from Georgia Institute of Technology and an MBA from New York University.
Board of directors 25 08 09 10 11 12 Rebecca McDonald PpL 08 Anne Quinn CBE PpL 11 53, non-executive director.
She is president, gas and power, for BHP Appointed in May 2004.
She is group vice president of BPs gas, Billiton and is a member of the BHP Billiton executive committee.
Previously she was managing director She is a director of Granite Construction Company in California.
of BP Gas Marketing Ltd, managing director of Alliance Gas Ltd and an executive with Standard Oil of Ohio.
She has a Bachelor Matthew Miau PpL 09 of Commerce degree from Auckland University and a Masters in 59, non-executive director.
management science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
He is chairman of MiTAC-Synnex Group, She serves on the Presidents Advisory Committee to the Sloan one of Taiwans leading high-tech industrial groups.
He is also a School, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Convenor of Civil Advisory Committee of National Information and Communications Initiatives NICI and on the Board of Directors of Dr Raj Rajagopal Ee 12 the Institute for Information Industry III, Taiwan.
He obtained a BS in 52, chief executive, BOC Edwards.
electronic engineering and computer science from U. C. Berkeley, an Appointed an executive director in July 2000.
He joined BOC in MBA from Santa Clara University and holds an honorary doctorate 1981 and has held several positions in BOC Edwards including degree from the National Chiao Tung University, Taiwan.
manufacturing systems manager, director of manufacturing and managing director, being appointed chief executive in 1998.
He was Sir Christopher ODonnell PpL 10 appointed a non-executive director of Foseco plc in May 2005 and 59, non-executive director.
joined the Council of Cranfield University in July 2005.
He was Appointed in March 2001.
He is chief executive of Smith & Nephew appointed to The Council of Science and Technology in March 2004 plc.
Previously he held senior positions with Davy Ashmore, Vickers and has chaired the Institution of Electrical Engineers Manufacturing Limited and C R Bard Inc.
He has an honours degree in mechanical Sector Panel since 2003.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of engineering from Imperial College, London and an MBA from the Engineers as well as the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, the London Business School.
He is a chartered engineer and a member Institution of Electrical Engineers and the Chartered Management of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers.
He has an MSc in manufacturing technology and a PhD in mechanical engineering both from Manchester University and an honorary degree from Cranfield University received in May 2004.
He was awarded the Sir Eric Mensforth Manufacturing Gold Medal in March 2003.
He resigned as a non-executive director of FSI International Inc in May 2005 and resigned from the board of the business support organisation, Sussex Enterprise, in February 2005.
Board committees P Audit committee p Remuneration committee L Nomination committee l Pensions committee E Executive management board e Investment committee 26 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2005 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 Executive management board John Bevan 01 Alan Ferguson 06 48, chief executive, Process Gas Solutions since January 2003.
47, group finance director since September 2005.
Appointed to the executive management board in June 2000.
Appointed to the executive management board in September 2005.
See page 24 for biographical details.
James Cullens 02 Tony Isaac 07 42, group human resources director since April 2005.
Appointed to the executive management board in April 2005.
Appointed to the executive management board in July 1996.
He joined BOC in July 2003 and most recently was human resources See page 24 for biographical details.
Prior to joining BOC, he held a variety of senior, international HR roles in organisations including Mars Kent Masters 08 Incorporated, Asda and PA Consulting Group.
He has an MA from 44, chief executive, Industrial and Special Products Cambridge University, an MLitt from Otago University, New Zealand since March 2005. and an MSc from Thames Valley University.
Appointed to the executive management board in December 2002.
Nick Deeming 03 51, group legal director and company secretary since May 2001.
Mark Nichols 09 Appointed to the executive management board in May 2001.
48, group director, business development since January 2004.
He has over 18 years in-house counsel experience, including Appointed to the executive management board in January 2004.
Schlumberger SEMA and Axa PPP Healthcare, specialising in He joined BOC in February 1988 and held senior financial roles in the corporate and commercial law.
He has a degree in law from Guildhall UK and US before moving into general management, most recently as University, an MBA from Cranfield University and qualified as a managing director, Industrial and Special Products, east Asia.
Before solicitor in 1980. joining BOC he worked for Total Oil and Merck.
He is a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants.
Stephen Dempsey 04 54, group director, corporate relations since February 1999.
Dr Raj Rajagopal 10 Appointed to the executive management board in October 1999.
52, chief executive, BOC Edwards since June 1998.
He joined BOC in 1990 as director of marketing services for the UK Appointed to the executive management board in July 1996. gases business and has held various communications roles in the See page 25 for biographical details.
He has an MA in geography from Oxford University and an MBA from Cranfield University.
Peter Dew 05 45, group director, information management since February 1998.
Appointed to the executive management board in October 1999.
He has held information technology roles in the Groups businesses in South Africa, the UK and most recently as information management director for the Groups businesses in Asia Pacific.
27 Summary financial statements The following pages contain summary financial statements for THE BOC GROUP plc for the year.
All of the information has been extracted from the full report and accounts.
These summary financial statements by definition do not present the detail that is included in the full report and accounts and which would permit a comprehensive analysis of the Groups performance.
Registered shareholders can obtain a copy of the full report and accounts free of charge or choose to receive it in future years by writing to Lloyds TSB Registrars at the address on page 40.
Contents 28 Report of the directors 30 Independent auditors statement 31 Directors remuneration 34 Group profit and loss account 35 Group balance sheet 36 Group cash flow statement 36 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 37 Notes to the financial statements 40 Shareholder information 28 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2005 Report of the directors The summary financial statements comprise the profit and loss account, Supplier payment policy balance sheet, cash flow statement and notes to the financial statements.
The Group applies a policy of agreeing and clearly communicating the Together they show the financial performance of the Group in 2005 and terms of payment as part of the commercial arrangements negotiated trends over a three-year period.
A report on directors remuneration is with suppliers and then paying according to those terms.
In addition, the also included.
UK-based businesses have committed to the Better Payment Practice Code.
Business review Corporate donations A review of the Groups business activities and their performance can be The Group made donations of 2,032,000, of which 350,000 went to found on pages 18 to 21.
The report of the directors deals with other issues UK-registered charities.
385,000 was used to support The BOC Foundation that the board and management regard as important to the conduct of the for the Environment.
As in previous years, no political donations were made companys affairs.
Employment policies Dividends BOCs employment policies are designed to underpin the Groups operating Two dividends were paid in 2005.
A first interim dividend of 15.9p per requirements and growth strategies.
Where practicable, policies are adapted share was paid in February and a second interim dividend of 25.3p per share to meet local requirements.
A first interim dividend of 16.3p per share has been declared for payment on 1 February 2006 and participation in the dividend Communication and involvement BOC places a high priority on reinvestment plan will be available to shareholders whose applications have communicating with its people and has invested in web-based been received by Lloyds TSB Registrars by 11 January 2006. communications technology to convey consistent and coherent messages to employees around the world.
Corporate governance Resourcing, training and development Programmes are designed to ensure The BOC Group is committed to business integrity, high ethical values and that the Group has a pool of well-qualified, gifted individuals able to meet professionalism in all its activities.
As an essential part of this commitment, both its day-to-day operational needs and its plans for the future.
the board supports the highest standards of corporate governance.
Reward and recognition Reward and recognition programmes are designed BOC has applied the principles contained in Section 1 of the Combined to endorse outstanding individual and team performance.
Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council and has complied throughout the year with the provisions set out therein Retirement benefit plans BOC fully supports its peoples efforts to provide as they applied to the company.
for their retirement and provides a range of opportunities for them to participate in programmes tailored to suit local conditions.
The New York Stock Exchange NYSE has in place listing standards related to the corporate governance practices of listed companies.
Employee share schemes Employees are encouraged to share the BOC, as a foreign private issuer with American Depositary Shares listed financial benefits of the Groups success through a number of option on the NYSE, is required to comply with certain of these rules, in particular and incentive schemes.
as they relate to audit committees, and must disclose any significant ways in Diversity BOC values the diversity of its workforce and is committed to which its corporate governance practices differ from those followed by maintaining a workplace free from discrimination for reasons of race, creed, US domestic companies under the NYSE listing standards.
At this time, culture, nationality, religion, gender, sexual orientation, age or marital status.
BOC does not believe that there are any significant differences in the corporate governance practices followed by the company, as compared Safety, health and environment to those followed by US domestic companies, except that the membership BOC operates in a hazardous industry and the safety of all those associated of the nomination committee is not composed entirely of independent with our business is our highest priority.
Hazards encountered by our non-executive directors.
The membership of the nomination committee employees include flammable and toxic gases and operations involving high is however in line with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, pressures and extreme temperatures.
The movement of product is central which permits membership of this committee to be composed of a to all our businesses, involving exposure to hazards associated with driving, majority of independent non-executive directors.
The Group has traditionally measured its Risk management and internal control The board of directors has overall safety performance against a set of reactive or lagging indicators, such as lost responsibility for the Groups system of risk management and internal controls.
workday cases, and has additionally recently introduced a set of predictive, or leading, indicators.
The BOC risk management programme assists management throughout the Group to identify, assess and mitigate business risk.
During 2005 BOC has an on-line environmental survey gathering data from all its sites approximately 86 risk workshops or reviews have been conducted.
as part of a comprehensive environmental programme.
BOC aims to The output from each assessment is a set of prioritised risks with minimise the environmental impact from its sites and to comply fully with associated action plans.
A report to the board is made twice a year of all material environmental laws and regulations.
BOC also contributes a the key risks facing the Group and actions to manage these key risks.
variety of products and technologies to meet the environmental needs of its customers.
Report of the directors 29 The directors have delegated to executive management the establishment Pensions committee The pensions committee meets twice a year and and implementation of a system of internal controls.
The internal control oversees the review of governance and control procedures applying to all system is monitored and supported by an internal audit function that employee retirement benefit plans and reviews and makes recommendations operates on a global basis and reports its results to management and the on the investment policies and strategies applied to the Groups retirement audit committee of the board.
The system is rigorous and designed to ensure benefit plans.
The committee comprises an independent non-executive that directors maintain full and effective control over all significant strategic, director, the chairman, chief executive and Group finance director.
financial, organisational and compliance issues.
The committee is chaired by Guy Dawson.
Having reviewed its effectiveness, the directors are not aware of anything in Executive management board The executive management board meets the Groups system of internal controls during the period covered by this regularly having primary authority for the day-to-day management of the report which would render them ineffective.
Groups operations and policy implementation in line with the Groups strategy agreed by the board.
The committee comprises the chief executive, The board and committees A complete list of the companys directors, the other executive directors and certain senior managers and is chaired by with their biographies, photographs, and board committee memberships Tony Isaac.
Further details are given on page 26. can be found on pages 24 and 25.
A summary and explanation of their remuneration is given on pages 31 to 33.
Investment committee The investment committee meets regularly and reviews and approves Group commitments up to 25 million as delegated Board committees by the board.
Group commitments over 25 million are presented to the Audit committee The audit committee meets four times a year, the agendas board for approval on recommendation from the committee.
The committee being organised around the companys financial reporting cycle.
Time is set comprises the chief executive, the other executive directors and certain senior aside at one of these meetings for the committee to meet with the internal managers and is chaired by Tony Isaac.
and the external auditors separately without the executive management present.
The committee reviews the effectiveness of internal controls, Auditors matters raised by the internal and external auditors in their regular reports The auditors report on the full financial statements was unqualified and did to the committee and the quarterly financial statements prior to their release not contain any statement concerning accounting records or failure to obtain as well as the arrangements by which staff of the Group may, in confidence, necessary information or explanations.
The committee also monitors that an appropriate relationship between BOC and the external auditors is maintained and reviews the By order of the board policies and procedures in place to ensure the independence and objectivity of the audit.
The committee comprises only independent non-executive Nick Deeming directors and is chaired by Sir Christopher ODonnell.
Company Secretary Nomination committee The nomination committee meets periodically as 28 November 2005 required but at least annually.
During 2005 the committee met six times.
The committee primarily monitors the composition and balance of the board and its committees and identifies and recommends to the board the appointment of new directors.
The committee also keeps under review the board committee structure and composition of each committee and makes recommendations to the board of any changes considered necessary.
All independent non-executive directors, the chairman and the chief executive serve as members of this committee.
The committee is chaired by Rob Margetts.
Whilst the chairman of the board chairs this committee he is not permitted to chair meetings when the appointment of his successor is being considered or during discussions regarding his performance.
Remuneration committee The remuneration committee meets six times a year.
The committee recommends to the board the policy on executive directors remuneration and the specific remuneration, benefits and terms of employment of each executive director.
The committee comprises only independent non-executive directors and is chaired by Guy Dawson.
30 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2005 Independent auditors statement To the members of The BOC Group plc We have examined the summary financial statement of The BOC Group plc.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The auditors Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing The directors are responsible for preparing the annual review and summary Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial Opinion statement within the annual review and summary financial statements with In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with the annual the annual financial statements, the directors report and the directors financial statements, the directors report and the directors remuneration remuneration report and its compliance with the relevant requirements of report of The BOC Group plc for the year ended 30 September 2005 and Section 251 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and the regulations complies with the applicable requirements of Section 251 of the Companies made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the annual Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
review and summary financial statements and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material  LLP inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the London companys members as a body in accordance with Section 251 of the 28 November 2005 Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any Notes: other person to whom this statement is shown or into whose hands it may a.
The maintenance and integrity of The BOC Group plcs website is the come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
31 Directors remuneration The report below is a summary of the directors remuneration report.
Remuneration components The full report setting out the composition of the remuneration committee, Basic salary Salaries for executive directors and executive management board the remuneration policy, together with full details of the directors members are based on median market rates drawn from market data emoluments, pensions, share options and shareholdings, is contained within provided by remuneration consultants, Towers Perrin, and take account of an the report and accounts 2005 on pages 72 to 83.
Copies of the full directors executives experience, responsibilities and performance.
Performance is remuneration report can be obtained, free of charge, from BOC or may be assessed both from an individual and business perspective.
Remuneration viewed on, or downloaded from, BOCs website, www.
com for those executives of businesses outside the UK is denominated in the local currency.
The remuneration committee Variable compensation plan VCP The executive directors and senior The remuneration committee comprises all the independent non-executive management participate in the variable compensation bonus plan.
It sets the overall remuneration policy of the Group and makes focuses on annual objectives and links individual performance with business recommendations to the board on the framework of executive remuneration.
Last year, as part of the review of performance-related elements of the It meets six times a year.
Specifically, the remuneration committee determines, executive remuneration package, the remuneration committee agreed that on behalf of the board, the detailed terms of service of the executive the target and maximum value of the VCP be increased to 110 per cent and directors and other members of the executive management team including 160 per cent of salary respectively and that one third of the VCP bonus be basic salary, performance-related bonus arrangements, benefits in kind, compulsorily deferred into the Share Matching Plan.
The financial targets for long-term incentives and pension benefits.
The remuneration committee also the executive directors and other executive management board members reviews the remuneration of the chairman, following a recommendation are set on an annual basis by the remuneration committee and performance from the chief executive and the senior independent director.
The board against these targets is reviewed by the remuneration committee on a six as a whole determines the non-executive directors fees.
The remuneration committee considers that a six monthly review acts as a significant incentive and is conducive to sustaining Non-executive directors performance throughout the year.
The financial targets are based equally on Non-executive directors are initially appointed for a three year term after adjusted earnings per share EPS and adjusted return on capital employed which, whilst not automatic, their appointment may be extended for a ROCE at Group level.
Adjusted means excluding exceptional items.
second term subject to mutual agreement and shareholder approval.
Bonuses are assessed two thirds on these financial targets with the remaining The fees are set at a level which will attract individuals with the necessary third based on personal objectives.
These are based on BOCs strategic experience and ability to make a significant contribution to The BOC Groups priorities and include safety, growth, people and change management and affairs and are benchmarked with those fees paid by other UK listed productivity.
Performance is measured against key performance indicators companies.
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts.
There is a threshold performance level They do not participate in the Groups variable compensation arrangements, below which no bonus is paid.
For 2005 the financial targets set by the its long-term incentive arrangements or its pension arrangements.
They do remuneration committee were EPS 66p and ROCE 15.3 per cent and the not receive any benefits in kind.
achievement against these targets was EPS 64.3p and ROCE 15.3 per cent.
The bonus payable in respect of the financial targets amounts to 58.6 per cent Remuneration policy of salary.
In addition, an amount equal to 29.3 per cent of salary has been BOCs remuneration policy for executive directors and other executive deferred into the Share Matching Plan.
management is designed to attract and retain executives of the highest calibre so that the Group is managed successfully to the benefit of its stakeholders.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Executive directors, members of the In setting remuneration levels the remuneration committee takes into account executive management board and a number of other key executives the remuneration practices found in other UK listed companies of similar selected from the companys global operations participate in the LTIP.
The policy is to pay salaries and total The remuneration committee has the discretion to grant awards up to a remuneration around mid-market levels for on target performance and to maximum of 2.5 times salary.
The award made in November 2004 to the provide the opportunity, via annual and long-term incentives, for executives to chief executive was based on 2 times salary and for other board directors be rewarded at the 75th percentile if this is justified by the achievement of top 1.5 times salary.
There are three performance conditions: total shareholder of the range performance goals.
It is the view of the remuneration committee return TSR, adjusted earnings per share EPS and adjusted return on capital that performance-related remuneration should form a substantial element of employed ROCE.
Up to one third of the award could vest in respect of total remuneration.
Based on assumptions about expected values for awards each performance condition.
from the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP and the Share Matching Plan, the proportion of performance-related remuneration to fixed remuneration excluding pensions and benefits in kind for current arrangements is approximately 67 per cent to 33 per cent.
32 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2005 Directors remuneration The TSR performance condition compares BOCs TSR performance with two The adjusted ROCE performance condition is based on the companys ROCE separate comparator groups, a UK comparator group comprising 31 industrial relative to three year targets on a sliding performance scale.
For the awards and manufacturing companies and a global industrial gases group of six leading made in November 2004, and for further awards, the remuneration companies as follows: committee decided that it would be appropriate to widen the ROCE band.
The threshold target set by the remuneration committee for the November UK group 2004 awards, which will vest in November 2007, is 13.5 per cent at the end of the three year performance period.
If this is achieved 40 per cent of the Aggregate Industries FKI RMC Group shares in respect of the ROCE part of the award will vest.
All of the shares in AMEC Hanson Rolls-Royce respect of the ROCE part of the award will vest if the company achieves a Anglo American IMI Scottish & Southern Energy ROCE of 16 per cent.
If the ROCE performance is between 13.5 per cent AWG ICI Scottish Power and 16 per cent a proportion of between 40 per cent and all of the shares BAE Systems International Power Severn Trent in respect of the ROCE part of the award will vest.
If the ROCE is less than BG Group Invensys Shell Transport & Trading 13.5 per cent the ROCE part of the award will lapse.
The ROCE targets for BHP Billiton Johnson Matthey Smiths Group the financial year 2004 awards were 13.5 per cent for threshold vesting and BP Kelda Group Tomkins 15 per cent for full vesting.
BPB National Grid Transco United Utilities Centrica Pilkington In setting three performance conditions for the LTIP awards, the Corus Group Rio Tinto remuneration committee took the view that these were the most important Aggregate Industries and RMC Group were taken over in 2005.
Their TSR measures that drive or measure sustainable improvements in shareholder performance to the point at which they were taken over has been included value: the TSR performance condition measures comparative performance in the performance measurement.
while EPS and ROCE reflect a core part of the companys business strategy, enabling high levels of both earnings growth and capital efficiency.
Global gases group For the awards made for the financial year 2003, the performance conditions Airgas US S&P 500 Index have been met to the extent that 52.6 per cent of the shares vest on the Air Liquide France CAC 40 Index third anniversary of the awards date.
Air Products & Chemicals US S&P 500 Index Linde Germany DAX 30 Index Share Matching Plan SMP The plan was adopted by shareholders at the Taiyo Nippon Sanso Japan NIKKEI 225 Index 2005 Annual General Meeting.
Executive directors, members of the Praxair US S&P 500 Index executive management board and other senior managers who participate in the VCP are eligible to participate in the SMP.
One third of any VCP award is When determining BOCs performance relative to the global gases group, compulsorily applied to the acquisition of BOC shares.
The executives will the TSR for BOC and the comparator companies is adjusted adjusted TSR become entitled to these shares only if they are still in service with BOC so that it reflects the excess or shortfall in returns relative to the local three years after the award is made or are considered to be good leavers.
stockmarket index where each company has its primary listing.
The nationality The executives will receive an additional number of shares equal to the value and the local stockmarket index that is used to calculate the adjusted TSR for of the dividends paid during the deferral period of the shares and they may each company is shown in the parentheses.
also receive a matching share award of up to 100 per cent of the number of shares originally allotted.
The percentage award will depend on the For the awards made in November 2004 which will vest in November 2007, companys performance over the deferral period.
Adjusted EPS will account the target set by the remuneration committee is such that if the companys for 75 per cent of the performance weighting, with TSR accounting for the TSR position measured over a three year period is median in respect of both remaining 25 per cent.
The adjusted EPS performance condition is based on comparator groups, then 40 per cent of the shares in respect of the TSR the companys EPS relative to three year targets.
These targets will be on a part of the award will vest.
If the companys TSR position is upper quartile all sliding scale, where five per cent per annum growth rate over three years is of the shares in respect of the TSR part of the award will vest.
If the TSR required for threshold vesting of 25 per cent of that portion.
Full vesting performance is between the median and upper quartile a proportion of will be achieved if EPS growth is 12 per cent per annum over the three between 40 per cent and all of the shares in respect of the TSR part of the year period.
If the companys TSR position is below the median for both comparator groups the TSR part of the award will lapse.
The same TSR The TSR performance condition compares BOCs TSR performance against performance criteria were used for the award made in the financial year 2004. the same UK comparator group as used for the LTIP.
Awards will vest for this The remuneration committee has decided that for any awards made in the portion where BOCs TSR position is median, measured over three years.
financial year 2006 onwards, 25 per cent rather than 40 per cent of the At this point 25 per cent of this portion of the award will vest.
Full vesting shares for the TSR part of the award will vest at median.
occurs if the company is ranked at or above the upper quartile.
Details of the value of VCP awards for directors that will be applied to the acquisition of The adjusted EPS performance condition is based on the companys EPS BOC shares under the SMP are shown below.
relative to three year targets on a sliding performance scale.
For the awards made in November 2004 which will vest in November 2007, the target set Executive Share Option Scheme 2003 ESOS 2003 The last grant under by the remuneration committee is 70.3p at the end of the three year the ESOS 2003 to executive directors and employees who participate in the performance period for minimum vesting.
If this is achieved, 40 per cent of SMP took place in November 2003.
The scheme was retained for selected the shares in respect of the EPS part of the award will vest.
All of the shares middle management throughout the companys global operations.
However, in respect of the EPS part of the award will vest if the company achieves it is intended to develop an alternative scheme for this group in the financial 80.8p at the end of the three year performance period.
The performance condition set for the ESOS 2003 by the performance is between 70.3p and 80.8p, a proportion of between remuneration committee is that the growth in the adjusted EPS over a three 40 per cent and all of the shares in respect of the EPS part of the award will year performance period must be equal to or greater than the growth in the vest.
If EPS is less than 70.3p at the end of the three year period, the EPS part UK retail prices index RPI plus three per cent per annum over the three of the award will lapse.
The EPS targets for the financial year 2004 awards year performance period.
In line with current corporate governance best were 60.3p for threshold vesting and 69.3p for full vesting.
practice there is no rolling re-testing of performance.
In the event that the performance condition is not satisfied over the original three year period then Directors remuneration 33 the remuneration committee has the discretion to re-test performance after equity index of which BOC is a constituent member.
The remuneration five years, but only where the remuneration committee believes the extension committee decided that other comparator groups were more appropriate to be a fair and reasonable basis for assessing the sustained underlying as performance measurement for the LTIP.
A graph showing BOCs TSR performance of the company.
performance compared with the six major gases companies relative to respective local indices, which is one of the comparator groups chosen Awards under the LTIP, SMP and ESOS 2003 are not pensionable.
for the LTIP, is shown in the chairmans statement on page 5.
Savings Related Share Option Schemes Service contracts New Schemes were adopted by shareholders at the 2005 Annual General The companys policy is for all executive directors to have contracts of Meeting.
These are operated in the UK, Australia, New Zealand and Ireland, employment that terminate on the attainment of retirement age.
In order to and are open to all employees including executive directors with one years mitigate its liability on early termination, the companys policy is that it should service or more.
The UK scheme is approved by HM Revenue and Customs.
be able to terminate such contracts on no more than 12 months notice, and that payments on termination are restricted to the value of salary, car TSR performance benefit and bonus entitlement calculated on the basis of the average of actual Percentage payments over the preceding two years for the unexpired portion of the 80 notice period.
The company has revised this policy further for all new 60 appointments, so that in the event of early termination, the company will pay 40 either monthly compensation calculated as per the terms set out above for the unexpired portion of the notice period, or else a lump sum payment 20 equal to the base salary pro-rated to the unexpired portion of the notice 0 period.
In the event that monthly compensation is paid, should an individual -20 obtain alternative employment during the period of the monthly payments, -40 the company's obligation is reduced by the amount of the monthly -60 remuneration from the alternative employment.
The revised policy has Oct-00 Oct-01 Oct-02 Oct-03 Oct-04 Oct-05 applied to all new appointments during the financial year and will apply to subsequent appointments.
BOC FTSE100 The graph above has been included to meet the requirement set out in the Pensions Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
It shows BOCs total During the year, five directors accrued benefits under the defined benefit plans shareholder return TSR performance, assuming dividends are reinvested, operated by the company.
Contributions amounting to 308,000 were paid compared with all FTSE100 companies.
This has been chosen because it by the company to money purchase plans in respect of three directors.
Allowances and benefits include car, fuel, medical insurance and international assignment benefits.
The latter includes housing, utilities, home leave flights, education, relocation, shipping costs, and any other assignment allowances not covered in this indicative listing.
Mr Masters and Mr Bevan are international assignees, and Mr Walsh was an international assignee prior to his resignation.
The pay of international assignees is managed under a tax equalisation programme funded by the company.
This programme ensures that they are not penalised financially by accepting roles of an international nature which would result in higher taxation costs than would have been the case if they had remained in their home country, as in the case of Mr Walsh and Mr Masters, or benefit from a tax windfall as in the case of Mr Bevan.
Mr Bevans basic salary fees is set by reference to his UK notional salary of 342,000.
Total remuneration disclosed in the 2004 Report and Accounts did not include a correction for the tax associated with international assignments.
Mr Mdori and Mr Walsh resigned from the board on 31 May 2005 and 1 March 2005 respectively.
The allowances and benefits of Mr Mdori include a salary supplement of 84,000 2004: 103,600 in respect of the pensions earnings cap.
Total fees for non-executive directors services in the year were 508,000.
Included in this amount were the chairmans fees of 251,000.
Total directors remuneration in 2005 was 7.3 million compared with 6.8 million in 2004.
Mr Ferguson joined BOC on 15 September 2005 and was appointed a director on 30 September 2005.
As such he was not remunerated as a director during the year.
2 R 2 of the Listing Rules, Mr Ferguson received an award of shares to the value of 550,000 on the day he joined the company.
Two thirds of this award will vest in March 2006.
The remaining shares will vest in March 2007.
He also received an award of shares to the value of 200 per cent of salary under the LTIP.
The number of shares awarded under the LTIP is shown above.
34 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2005 Group profit and loss account Years ended 30 September 2005 2004 2003 Before After Before After Before After exceptional Exceptional exceptional exceptional Exceptional exceptional exceptional Exceptional exceptional items items items items items items items items items million million million million million million million million million Turnover, including share of joint ventures and associates 4,605.0 4,605.0 4,599.3 4,599.3 4,323.2 4,323.2 Less: Share of turnover of joint ventures 727.8 727.8 647.0 647.0 544.3 544.3 Share of turnover of associates 122.5 122.5 66.9 66.9 60.6 60.6 Turnover of subsidiary undertakings 3,754.7 3,754.7 3,885.4 3,885.4 3,718.3 3,718.3 Operating profit of subsidiary undertakings 436.6 20.7 415.9 464.4 14.8 449.6 407.4 60.2 347.2 Share of operating profit of joint ventures 107.1 107.1 99.4 2.6 96.8 86.8 6.8 80.0 Share of operating profit of associates 20.5 20.5 13.1 13.1 11.4 11.4 Total operating profit including share of joint ventures and associates 564.2 20.7 543.5 576.9 17.4 559.5 505.6 67.0 438.6 Profit loss on termination disposal of businesses continuing operations 98.1 98.1 79.5 79.5 Profit on disposal of fixed assets continuing operations 10.5 10.5 4.9 4.9 Profit on ordinary activities before interest 564.2 87.9 652.1 576.9 92.0 484.9 505.6 67.0 438.6 Interest on net debt 76.7 76.7 88.4 88.4 96.1 96.1 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 128.9 128.9 117.4 117.4 110.2 110.2 Expected return on pension scheme assets 147.1 147.1 133.2 133.2 119.6 119.6 Other net financing income 18.2 18.2 15.8 15.8 9.4 9.4 Profit on ordinary activities before tax 505.7 87.9 593.6 504.3 92.0 412.3 418.9 67.0 351.9 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 131.5 28.4 159.9 146.2 44.5 101.7 121.4 25.0 96.4 Profit on ordinary activities after tax 374.2 59.5 433.7 358.1 47.5 310.6 297.5 42.0 255.5 Minority interests equity 40.0 26.7 66.7 46.6 46.6 36.8 0.4 36.4 Profit for the financial year 334.2 32.8 367.0 311.5 47.5 264.0 260.7 41.6 219.1 Dividends 204.1 204.1 197.3 197.3 192.1 192.1 Retained profit for the financial year 130.1 32.8 162.9 114.2 47.5 66.7 68.6 41.6 27.0 Earnings per 25p Ordinary share basic 67.5p 6.6p 74.1p 63.2p 9.7 p 53.5p 52.9p 8.4 p 44.5p diluted 67.3p 6.6p 73.9p 63.1p 9.6 p 53.5p 52.9p 8.4 p 44.5p All turnover and operating profit arose from continuing operations.
35 Group balance sheet At 30 September 2005 2004 2003 million million million Fixed assets Intangible assets 142.6 174.9 206.1 Tangible assets 2,639.9 2,618.4 2,913.4 Investment in joint ventures 516.5 458.0 505.3 Investment in associates 82.8 55.7 64.5 Other investments 14.6 34.5 38.8 3,396.4 3,341.5 3,728.1 Current assets 1,241.1 1,255.3 1,104.9 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 1,157.5 1,134.7 1,168.2 Net current assets liabilities 83.6 120.6 63.3 Total assets less current liabilities 3,480.0 3,462.1 3,664.8 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 802.3 963.2 1,133.1 Provisions for liabilities and charges 360.8 345.2 376.6 Total net assets excluding pension assets and liabilities 2,316.9 2,153.7 2,155.1 Pension assets 88.7 68.9 50.7 Pension liabilities 352.5 344.5 341.8 Total net assets including pension assets and liabilities 2,053.1 1,878.1 1,864.0 Equity shareholders funds 1,942.0 1,675.3 1,686.7 Minority shareholders interests 111.1 202.8 177.3 Total capital and reserves 2,053.1 1,878.1 1,864.0 Significant accounting ratios 2005 2004 2003 1 Return on capital employed % 15.6 14.9 10.9 1, 2 Adjusted return on capital employed % 16.2 15.4 12.6 Interest cover times 7.1 6.3 4.6 2 Adjusted interest cover times 7.4 6.5 5.3 Net debt equity % 40.9 51.2 73.4 Net debt capital employed % 25.6 29.9 37.4 1.
Operating profit as a percentage of the average capital employed excluding net pension liabilities.
Capital employed comprises total capital and reserves, long-term liabilities and all current borrowings, net of cash and deposits.
The average is calculated on a monthly basis.
The summary financial statements on pages 34 to 39 were approved by the board of directors on 28 November 2005 and are signed on its behalf by: A E Isaac A M Ferguson Director Director 36 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2005 Group cash flow statement Years ended 30 September 2005 2004 2003 million million million Total operating profit before exceptional items 564.2 576.9 505.6 Depreciation and amortisation 301.9 324.0 333.4 Net retirement benefits charge less contributions 14.4 15.9 5.6 Operating profit before exceptional items of joint ventures 107.1 99.4 86.8 Operating profit before exceptional items of associates 20.5 13.1 11.4 Changes in working capital and other items 41.7 2.1 18.0 Exceptional cash flows 16.9 11.9 28.3 Net cash inflow from operating activities 665.5 758.5 700.1 Dividends from joint ventures and associates 51.1 79.1 35.0 Returns on investments and servicing of finance 131.6 91.2 94.4 Tax paid 118.4 98.2 90.7 Capital expenditure and financial investment 299.7 204.2 227.0 Acquisitions and disposals 128.8 92.5 118.3 Equity dividends paid 204.1 197.3 192.1 Net cash inflow before use of liquid resources and financing 91.6 339.2 12.6 Management of liquid resources 14.3 20.8 16.2 Net cash outflow from financing 156.1 168.3 131.3 Decrease increase in cash 50.2 150.1 102.5 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 2005 2004 2003 million million million Net debt at 1 October 962.4 1,368.1 1,325.6 Net cash inflow 91.6 339.2 12.6 Issue of shares 9.6 12.4 2.6 Net borrowings assumed at acquisition 6.2 4.7 0.8 Net borrowings liquid resources eliminated on disposal 40.9 31.0 Inception of finance leases 7.1 0.2 Exchange adjustment 6.1 59.0 20.7 Net debt at 30 September 839.7 962.4 1,368.1 37 Notes to the financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation These accounts are based on the historical cost accounting convention in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and comply with all applicable UK accounting standards.
The accounts are prepared on the going concern basis.
This means that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
The Group accounts include the accounts of the parent undertaking and of all subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
Subsidiary undertakings are those businesses controlled by the Group and their results are fully included.
Joint ventures are those businesses which the Group jointly controls with one or more other parties.
Associates are those businesses in which the Group has a participating interest and exercises significant influence.
The results of businesses acquired are included from the effective date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions during the year the difference between the fair value of the purchase price of a business and the fair value of the net assets acquired is capitalised and amortised over its useful economic life.
Exchange rates The majority of the Groups operations are located outside the UK and operate in currencies other than sterling.
Profit and loss and other period statements of the Groups overseas operations are translated at average rates of exchange for the financial year.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the end of the financial year.
The rates of exchange to sterling for the currencies which have principally affected the Groups results were: 2005 2004 2003 Average for the year: US dollar 1.85 1.79 1.60 Australian dollar 2.41 2.47 2.62 Japanese yen 198.20 195.17 191.01 South African rand 11.54 11.85 13.24 At 30 September: US dollar 1.77 1.81 1.66 Australian dollar 2.32 2.50 2.45 Japanese yen 200.51 199.44 185.60 South African rand 11.25 11.72 11.57 3.
38 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2005 Notes to the financial statements 4.
Legal proceedings BOC Group companies are parties to various legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business, including some in which claims for damages in large amounts have been asserted.
The outcome of litigation to which BOC Group companies are party cannot be readily foreseen, but the directors believe that such litigation should be disposed of without material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition or profitability.
Welding fumes litigation A US subsidiary of BOC, The BOC Group, Inc. currently is party to a number of lawsuits in the US for alleged injuries resulting from exposure to manganese, asbestos and or toxic fumes in connection with the welding process.
The BOC Group, Inc. has not manufactured welding rods in the US since 1986 when the welding electrodes business was sold.
The BOC Group, Inc. ceased selling welding rods in the US manufactured by others when the sale of the US packaged gas business, including the operations that distributed packaged gases and welding equipment, was completed in July 2004.
Manganese litigation At 30 September 2005, there were a total of approximately 8,574 claimants Total Claimants in pending manganese related cases in both US federal and state courts that name The BOC Group, Inc. as a defendant, a net decrease of approximately 1,100 claimants from 30 September 2004.
The BOC Group, Inc. is typically one of several defendants in these cases that claim compensatory and punitive damages, in most cases for unspecified amounts, for alleged neurological injury, including Parkinsons disease, through exposure to manganese in welding fumes.
Of the Total Claimants, approximately 4,607 claimants have filed in, or been transferred for pre-trial purposes to, the federal district court in the Northern District of Ohio, where a multi-district litigation MDL proceeding has been commenced, and approximately 50 claimants are in process to be transferred to or from the MDL.
The MDL proceeding is a vehicle for coordinating pre-trial proceedings in cases pending in different federal district courts in the US.
It is currently contemplated that the MDL court will try three cases during the MDL proceeding.
The first such case is currently scheduled for February 2006.
In addition to the cases in federal court, The BOC Group, Inc. is a defendant in a number of similar cases pending in state courts, which are in different stages of procedural development, and certain cases are scheduled for trial from time to time.
The BOC Group, Inc. has been a co-defendant in other manganese related claims that have been resolved as follows.
From 1 January 1997 to 30 September 2005, 3,965 claims were dismissed.
Through 30 September 2005, seven cases were tried to final jury verdicts in favour of the defendants, including The BOC Group, Inc. and one case was tried to a final jury verdict in favour of the plaintiffs, which is being appealed.
Asbestos litigation At 30 September 2005, there were a total of approximately 15,966 claimants in pending asbestos related cases that name The BOC Group, Inc. as a defendant, a net decrease of approximately 600 from 30 September 2004.
The BOC Group, Inc. is typically one of a large number of defendants in these cases that claim compensatory and punitive damages, in most cases for unspecified amounts, for alleged injuries, including cancer, through exposure to asbestos in welding fumes or from welding consumables.
A very small number of these claimants allege injuries from exposure to asbestos in non-welding rod products and premises.
The BOC Group, Inc. has been a co-defendant in other asbestos related claims that have been resolved as follows.
From 1 January 1997 to 30 September 2005, 11,776 claims were dismissed and 75 claims were dismissed on summary judgments.
Through 30 September 2005, nine cases were tried to final jury verdicts in favour of the defendants, including The BOC Group, Inc. and one case was tried to a final jury verdict in favour of the plaintiffs, which is being appealed.
The BOC Group, Inc. believes that it has strong defences to the claims asserted in all of the various manganese and asbestos related cases and intends to defend vigorously such claims.
In the manganese related claims, The BOC Group, Inc. believes that recent relevant scientific literature, based on epidemiological studies, strongly supports its defence of such claims.
Based on its experience to date, together with its current assessment of the merits of the claims being asserted and applicable insurance, BOC believes that continued defence and resolution of the welding fumes litigation will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or profitability and no provision has been made.
Nonetheless, it is not possible to predict either the number of future claims or the number of claimants that any future claims may present.
In addition, the outcome of welding fume cases, either involving BOC or other defendants, is inherently uncertain and always difficult to predict, and BOC cannot provide any assurances that any future resolutions of these types of claims will necessarily be consistent with its experience to date.
In the event of an adverse outcome to any of the proceedings, a liability would be recognised if it was considered likely that it would give rise to an outflow of future economic benefits.
Where there is applicable insurance, this would be recognised when its recoverability was virtually certain.
Fluorogas litigation The Fluorogas litigation is now settled and is no longer the subject of any legal proceedings.
Notes to the financial statements 39 5.
US accounting information The consolidated financial statements of the Group are prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
These differ in certain respects from accounting principles generally accepted in the US US GAAP.
The application of the different accounting principles results in adjustments being needed to show what the Groups profit would be under US GAAP.
The main adjustments are shown individually in the tables below.
a Reconciliation of net profit 2005 2004 2003 million million million Net profit under UK GAAP 367.0 264.0 219.1 Pensions 0.8 7.5 62.5 Revaluations realised on asset disposals 7.2 1.1 Amortisation of goodwill and other intangibles 12.0 13.5 13.4 Financial and other derivative instruments 1.1 15.7 2.8 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 3.5 0.3 0.6 Unrealised profit on disposal of subsidiary 8.2 Other adjustments on profit on disposal of subsidiary 20.7 Adjustment on disposal of the US packaged gas business 9.6 39.9 Goodwill impairments 16.3 Other 1.2 3.0 3.6 Taxation adjustments 27.0 14.8 20.7 Net income under US GAAP 326.7 297.7 264.3 Earnings per 25p Ordinary share Basic Profit from continuing operations and for the financial year 66.0p 60.4p 53.7p b Reconciliation of shareholders funds 2005 2004 million million Shareholders funds under UK GAAP 1,942.0 1,675.3 UK minority interests 111.1 202.8 2,053.1 1,878.1 Pensions 107.8 154.7 Post retirement medical costs 16.8 12.2 Revaluations of fixed assets 30.3 36.8 Goodwill previously charged to reserves 64.1 62.7 Non-amortisation of goodwill under SFAS142 40.1 31.4 Amortisation of other intangibles 1.1 1.0 Interest rate swaps 1.2 2.7 Share of net assets of joint ventures and associates 14.1 17.6 Securities investments 7.3 Consolidation of variable interest entity under FIN46 12.8 29.7 Goodwill on disposal of subsidiary 5.5 4.4 Fixed asset impairments 8.1 13.3 Restructuring provisions 4.0 6.5 Financial and other derivative instruments 3.1 2.0 Provision for executive share schemes 0.5 0.9 Sale and leaseback 1.8 1.9 Goodwill impairments 16.3 Deferred tax 6.2 10.2 Minority interests 97.9 180.7 Shareholders funds under US GAAP 2,122.2 1,920.1 40 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2005 Shareholder information Ordinary shareholdings by investor type at 30 September 2005 % Number of % Number of of total number 25p shares of ordinary accounts of accounts Type of investor million capital 29,683 79 Individuals 26.2 5 6,966 19 Institutional investors 467.3 93 913 2 Other corporate investors 9.0 2 37,562 100 502.5 100 Financial calendar 1 Ordinary Shares American Depositary Shares 12 4% Unsecured Loan Stock 2012 2017 1 First interim Second interim Half year Half year Ex-dividend 4 Jan 2006 28 Jun 2006 1 Mar 2006 30 Aug 2006 Record date 6 Jan 2006 30 Jun 2006 3 Mar 2006 1 Sep 2006 DRIP notice date 11 Jan 2006 11 Jul 2006 Payment date UK 1 Feb 2006 1 Aug 2006 2 Apr 2006 2 Oct 2006 US 8 Feb 2006 8 Aug 2006 Three months Half year Nine months Preliminary Report and accounts Group results 8 Feb 2006 11 May 2006 2 Aug 2006 23 Nov 2006 Dec 2006 1.
Proposed dates Shareholder enquiries Shareholding information Shareholders who have questions relating to the Groups business or wish to To view up-to-date information about your shareholding, change receive copies of the interim statements should write to: your address details, set up a new, or change an existing, dividend mandate, visit the Lloyds TSB Registrars shareview website at www.
co. uk Director Investor Relations The BOC Group plc The portfolio service provides access to more information on your Chertsey Road, Windlesham investments including balance movements, indicative share prices and details Surrey GU20 6HJ, England of recent dividend payments.
To register with Lloyds TSB Registrars as a user Telephone: 01276 477222 of the portfolio service and for more information visit the website at E-mail: ir@boc.
co. uk Registrar Electronic shareholder communications Administrative enquiries concerning shareholdings in the company such as the Shareholders can now elect to receive shareholder documents, such as loss of share certificates, change of address, dividend payment arrangements, annual and interim reports and notices of general meetings, electronically amalgamation of multiple accounts, or requests for the full report and from the companys website rather than in hard copy through the mail.
accounts should be sent directly to: This has the advantage of improving the speed of communications and reducing administrative costs of printing and postage.
The terms on which this Lloyds TSB Registrars electronic facility is provided can be found on the companys website The Causeway, Worthing www.
com or on request from the registered office.
Any shareholder West Sussex BN99 6DA, England wishing to take advantage of this free service may do so by registering their Telephone: 0870 600 3958 details on the Lloyds TSB Registrars shareview website at Fax: 0870 600 3980 www.
co. uk Teltex for shareholders with hearing difficulties: 0870 600 3950 If telephoning from outside the UK: 44 121 415 7035 or Fax: 44 1903 702424 Website: www.
co. uk Correspondence should refer to The BOC Group plc, stating clearly the registered name and address and, if available, the full account number which starts with 0385.
The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2005 Shareholder information 41 BOC touches many peoples lives.
40 Shareholder information The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2005 The BOC Group plc Registered office: Chertsey Road, Windlesham, Surrey GU20 6HJ, England Tel: 01276 477222 Fax: 01276 471333 Registered in England No.
com Making a difference The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2005
