91 Accounting policies General Basis of preparationThese financial statements are based on the historical cost accounting convention in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and comply with all applicable UK accounting standards.
UK accounting standards differ in certain respects from those generally accepted in the US and the major effects of these differences in the determination of net income and shareholders funds are shown in note 30 to the financial statements.
Disclosure requirements of both the UK and US are incorporated throughout the notes to these financial statements.
Basis of consolidationThe Group accounts include the accounts of the parent undertaking and of all subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
The results of businesses acquired during the year are included from the effective date of acquisition.
The results of businesses disposed of during the year are included up to the date of relinquishing control.
Material, separately identifiable business segments disposed of are analysed as discontinued operations and prior years analyses are restated to reflect those businesses as discontinued.
Accounting policiesThese accounts have been prepared on an accounting basis consistent with that applied in the financial year ended 30 September 2004.
Exchange Profit and loss and other period statements of the Groups overseas operations are translated at average rates of exchange for the financial year.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the financial year end.
Assets or liabilities swapped into other currencies are accounted for in those currencies.
Exchange differences are dealt with as a movement in reserves where they arise from: i the translation of the opening net assets of overseas operations: ii the retranslation of retained earnings of overseas operations from average to closing rates of exchange: and iii the translation or conversion of foreign currency borrowings taken to hedge overseas assets.
All other exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
The principal exchange rates affecting the Group are shown in the financial review on page 63.
Revenue recognition Turnover is based on the invoiced value of the sale of goods and services, and includes the sales value of long-term contracts appropriate to the state of completion.
It excludes sales between Group undertakings, VAT and similar sales-based taxes.
Turnover for goods and services is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer.
This is determined to be when delivery has occurred, title of the goods has passed to the purchaser, and where the price is fixed or determinable and reflects the commercial substance of the transaction.
Sales returns are not a significant business issue in the industries in which the Group operates.
Revenue on long-term supply contracts with customers generally contains two elements: i a fixed charge for the use of production or storage facilities.
This is recognised on a straight line basis over the period of the contract.
Where the charge is in respect of production facilities, it will also typically include the supply of a specified volume of product: ii a variable charge for the supply of product, or the supply of product in excess of a specified contract volume.
This is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer.
Profit on long-term contracts is recognised on a percentage of completion basis.
Provision is made for all losses incurred together with any foreseeable or anticipated future losses.
Retirement benefits Retirement benefits are accounted for under FRS17.
For defined benefit schemes the regular service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees during the year is charged to operating profit in the year.
The full cost of providing amendments to benefits in respect of past service is also charged to operating profit in the year.
A credit representing the expected return on the assets of the retirement benefit schemes during the year is included within other net financing income.
This is based on the market value of the assets of the schemes at the start of the financial year.
A charge representing the expected increase in the liabilities of the retirement benefit schemes during the year is included within other net financing income.
This arises from the liabilities of the schemes being one year closer to payment.
Differences between actual and expected returns on assets during the year are recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses in the year, together with differences arising from changes in assumptions.
For defined contribution schemes the cost of providing benefits is charged to operating profit as incurred.
Research and development Revenue expenditure on research and development is written off when incurred.
Operating leases The cost of operating leases is written off on the straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Intangible fixed assets Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a business, being the excess of the fair value of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired, is capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis over its useful economic life, generally up to a maximum period of 20 years.
An impairment review is carried out at the end of the first full financial year following acquisition.
Any impairment in the value of goodwill, calculated by discounting estimated future cash flows, is dealt with in the profit and loss account in the period in which it arises.
Negative goodwill, being the excess of the fair value of the net assets acquired over the fair value of the purchase price, is capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis, generally over a period equivalent to the realisation of the non-monetary assets acquired.
Goodwill, both positive and negative, arising on acquisitions before 30 September 1998 was taken to reserves and has not been reinstated on the balance sheet.
This is in line with the relevant accounting standard on goodwill, FRS10.
This goodwill will remain in reserves until such time as it becomes impaired or the business or businesses to which it relates are disposed of, at which time it will be taken to the profit and loss account or statement of total recognised gains and losses where appropriate.
Intangibles Other material intangible assets acquired, such as patents and trademarks, are capitalised and written off on the straight line basis over their effective economic lives.
92 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Accounting policies Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
No depreciation is charged on freehold land or construction in progress.
Depreciation is charged on all other fixed assets on the straight line basis to write them down to their residual values over the effective lives.
Straight line depreciation rates vary according to the class of asset, but are typically: Per annum Freehold property 2%4% Leasehold property or at higher rates based on the life of the lease 2%4% Plant and machinery 3%10% Cylinders 4%10% Motor vehicles 7%20% Computer hardware and major software 15%25% Until 30 September 1999, land and buildings were revalued periodically.
Following the adoption of FRS15, land and buildings are no longer revalued.
At 1 October 1999, the net book value of assets previously revalued is regarded as the historical cost.
Interest costs on major fixed asset additions are capitalised during the construction period and written off as part of the total cost.
Where finance leases have been entered into, the capital element of the obligations to the lessor are shown as part of borrowings and the rights in the corresponding assets are treated in the same way as owned fixed assets.
Any impairment in the value of fixed assets, calculated by comparing the carrying value against the higher of the net realisable value or value in use, is dealt with in the profit and loss account in the period in which it arises.
Investments Investments which are held for the long term and in which the Group has a participating interest and exercises joint control with one or more other parties are treated as joint ventures and accounted for on the gross equity method.
Investments which are held for the long term and in which the Group has a participating interest and exercises significant influence are treated as associates and accounted for on the equity method.
In both cases, the Groups share of the results of the investment is included in the profit and loss account, and the Groups share of the net assets is included in investments in the balance sheet.
Other investments are shown on the balance sheet at cost less any provision for impairment.
Stocks Stocks and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost where appropriate includes a proportion of overhead expenses.
Work in progress is stated at cost less progress payments received or receivable.
Cost is arrived at principally on the average and first-in, first-out FIFO basis.
The amount of long-term contracts, net of amounts transferred to cost of sales and after deducting foreseeable losses and payments on account, is included in stocks as long-term contract amounts.
Deferred tax The Group provides for deferred tax assets and liabilities arising from timing differences between the recognition of gains and losses in the financial statements and their recognition for tax purposes.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised where it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Provisions Provisions are made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
Restructuring provisions are made for direct expenditures of a business reorganisation where the plans are sufficiently detailed and well advanced, and where appropriate communication to those affected has been undertaken at the balance sheet date.
Provisions for warranties are based on contractual arrangements with customers and experience of product performance.
Financial instruments The Group uses financial instruments, including interest rate and currency swaps, to raise finance for its operations and to manage the risks arising from those operations.
All transactions are undertaken only to manage interest and currency risk associated with the Groups underlying business activities and the financing of those activities.
The Group does not undertake any trading activity in financial instruments.
Foreign exchange transaction exposuresThe Group generally hedges actual and forecast foreign exchange exposures up to two years ahead.
Forward contracts are used to hedge the forecast exposure and any gains or losses resulting from changes in exchange rates on contracts designated as hedges of forecast foreign exchange are deferred until the financial period in which they are realised.
If the contract ceases to be a hedge, any gains and losses are recognised through the profit and loss account.
Balance sheet translation exposures A large proportion of the Groups net assets are denominated in currencies other than sterling.
Where practicable and cost effective the Group hedges these balance sheet translation exposures by borrowing in relevant currencies and markets and by the use of currency swaps.
Currency swaps are used only as balance sheet hedging instruments, and the Group does not hedge the currency translation of its profit and loss account.
Exchange gains and losses arising on the notional principal of these currency swaps during their life and at termination or maturity are dealt with as a movement in reserves.
If the swap ceases to be a hedge of the underlying transaction, any gains or losses are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Interest rate risk exposuresThe Group hedges its exposure to movements in interest rates associated with its borrowings primarily by means of interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements.
Interest payments and receipts on these agreements are included with net interest payable.
They are not revalued to fair value and are not shown on the Group balance sheet at the balance sheet date.
