Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the twenty-eighth Annual General i to the allotment of equity securities in connection with or Meeting of the Company will be held at The Body Shop International pursuant to a rights issue, open offer or any other offer to PLC, Watersmead, Littlehampton, West Sussex, BN17 6LS on Friday the holders of shares in the Company where the equity 17 June 2005 at 11.00 am for the following purposes: securities respectively attributable under such issue or offer to each shareholder are proportionate as nearly as may be 1.
To receive the Reports of the Directors and the Auditors and to the respective numbers of equity securities held by them to adopt the Accounts for the year ended 26 February 2005. on a fixed record date but subject only to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report.
necessary, or expedient, to deal with fractional entitlements, or legal or practical problems under the laws of or the 3.
To declare a final dividend of 3.8 pence per share in respect requirements of any recognised regulatory body or stock of the year ended 26 February 2005. exchange in any territory: and 4.
To re-elect Adrian Bellamy who retires in accordance with ii to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph the Articles of Association as a Director.
i above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 534,479.
To re-elect Peter Saunders who retires in accordance with the Articles of Association as a Director.
This power shall expire on 16 September 2006 or the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, whichever is 6.
To re-appoint BDO Stoy Hayward LLP as Auditors of the the earlier save that the Company may before such expiry make Company until the next Annual General Meeting and to an offer or agreement which would or might require equity authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement As special business to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as if the power conferred by this Resolution had not expired.
resolutions of which Resolutions 7 and 10 will each be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution and Resolutions 8 and 9 will each be This power applies in relation to a sale of shares which is an proposed as Special Resolutions.
allotment of equity securities by virtue of Section 94 3A of the Act as if in the first paragraph of this Resolution the words Ordinary Resolution pursuant to the authority conferred on them by Resolution 7 above as varied from time to time by the Company in general 7.
That the Directors be and are hereby generally and meeting were omitted.
unconditionally authorised, pursuant to Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, to exercise all the powers 9.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning unconditionally authorised, in accordance with Article 10 of Section 80 of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of its Articles of Association and Chapter VII of the Act, to of 3,525,000 provided that this authority shall expire on make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 16 September 2006 or the conclusion of the next Annual of the Act on the London Stock Exchange plc London Stock General Meeting of the Company, whichever is the earlier, save Exchange of ordinary shares of 5p each in the capital of the that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or Company Ordinary Shares in such manner and on such agreement which would or might require relevant securities to terms as the Directors may from time to time determine, be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot relevant provided that: securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority hereby conferred had not expired.
This authority is in a the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby substitution for all subsisting authorities to the extent unused.
authorised to be so acquired is 21,379,178: Special Resolutions b the minimum price which may be paid for such shares is 5p per shares exclusive of expenses : 8.
That subject to the passing of Resolution 7, the Directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Act c the maximum price which may be paid for each such share to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 2 exclusive of expenses is, in respect of a share contracted to Section 94 3A of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority to be purchased on any day, an amount equal to 105% conferred on them by Resolution 7 above as varied from time of the average of the middle market quotations for an to time by the Company in general meeting as if Section 89 1 Ordinary Share derived from the Daily Official List of the of the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this London Stock Exchange during the period of ten business power shall be limited: days immediately preceding the day on which such share is contracted to be purchased: 34 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 d the authority hereby conferred shall expire 15 months after By Order of the Board the passing of this resolution or at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, whichever Jeremy Kett is the earlier: Company Secretary 28 April 2005 e the Company may under the authority hereby conferred and prior to the expiry of such authority make a contract to purchase its own shares which will or may be executed Notes: wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may 1.
Resolutions 4 and 5 relate to the re-appointment of Directors.
Biographical make a purchase of its own shares in pursuance of any information relating to the appointees appears on page 23. such contract as if the authority conferred hereby had not 2.
A shareholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint one expired: and or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote on his or her behalf.
The person so appointed need not be a shareholder of the Company.
A form of proxy is f the Company may, under the authority hereby conferred enclosed which, to be effective, must be lodged with the Companys registrars, and prior to its expiry, make a contract to purchase its Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6ZL not own shares with any Director of the Company or with any later than 48 hours before the meeting.
person connected with any Director of the Company or with 3.
The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertified Securities any person connected with any Director within the Regulations 2001, specifies that only those shareholders registered as at 6pm meaning of Section 346 of the Act.
on 15 June 2005 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the aforesaid general meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register of securities after 6pm on 15 June Ordinary Resolution 2005 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
That in accordance with Section 347C of the Act the Company is authorised: a to make donations to EU Political Organisations not exceeding 100,000 in total: and b to incur EU Political Expenditure not exceeding 100,000 in total during the period commencing on the date of this Resolution and ending with 16 September 2006 or, if sooner, the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2006.
For the purposes of this Resolution the terms donations, EU Political Organisations and EU Political Expenditure have the meanings set out in Section 347A of the Companies Act 1985, as amended by the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 35
