Consolidated Balance Sheet at 31 December 2005 2005 2004 Note Restated 24 m m Non-current assets Goodwill 154.2 139.7 11 Other intangible assets 3.7 1.4 12 Property, plant and equipment 442.9 425.9 13 Interests in associates 9.2 5.8 15 Other investments.
17 Deferred tax asset 22.7 18.9 21 Trade and other receivables 6.1 6.1 18 640.7 598.2 Current assets Inventories 11.9 8.9 16 Finance lease receivables 0.3.
17 Trade and other receivables 114.5 102.3 18 Cash and cash equivalents 124.8 142.1 18 251.5 253.3 Non-current assets classied as held for sale 1.2 6.9 8 Total assets 893.4 858.4 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 97.2 86.9 23 Dividends payable 7.5 7.2 9 Current tax liabilities 3.3 2.5 7 Obligations under finance leases 1.4 1.5 22 Bank overdrafts and loans 6.4 7.0 19 Short-term provisions 2.3 1.5 24 118.1 106.6 Net current assets 133.4 146.7 Non-current liabilities Bank loans 221.6 219.5 19 Retirement benefit obligation 29.9 24.2 37 Deferred tax liabilities 79.9 72.1 21 Obligations under finance leases 3.9 4.4 22 Long-term provisions 4.7 6.7 24 Other payables 1.8 2.9 23 341.8 329.8 Total liabilities 459.9 436.4 Net assets 433.5 422.0 Share capital 32.1 32.1 25 Share premium account 300.3 300.0 26 Own shares 2.5 0.8 27 Other reserves 1.7 1.5 28 Hedging and translation reserves 11.1 16.2 29 Retained earnings 89.4 72.0 30 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 432.1 421.0 Minority interest 1.4 1.0 Total equity 433.5 422.0 Approved by the Board of Directors on 28 February 2006 and signed on its behalf by: J. D. Hubbard Directors } D. F. Landless The accompanying notes and statement of accounting policies are an integral part of these financial statements.
28 Bodycote annual report 2005 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 31 December 2005 2005 2004 Note m m Net cash from operating activities 95.7 100.5 33 Investing activities Purchases of property, plant and equipment 51.8 37.5 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 8.6 3.6 Purchases of intangible xed assets 0.9 0.5 Acquisition of investment in an associate 2.3 5.2 Acquisition of subsidiaries 31.8 4.7 Disposal of subsidiaries 5.8 20.4 Net cash used in investing activities 72.4 23.9 Financing activities Interest received 5.4 4.2 Interest paid 14.9 12.9 Dividends paid 19.5 15.7 Dividends paid to a minority shareholder 0.1.
Repayments of bank loans 10.1 9.2 Repayments of obligations under finance leases 1.6 2.2 New bank loans raised 0.1 5.1 New obligations under finance leases 0.1 0.4 Proceeds on issue of ordinary share capital 0.3 62.0 Own shares purchased 1.7.
Net cash used in from nancing activities 42.0 31.7 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 18.7 108.3 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 138.7 29.8 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.7 0.6 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 120.7 138.7 The accompanying notes and statement of accounting policies are an integral part of these financial statements.
Bodycote annual report 2005 29 Accounting Policies BASIS OF ACCOUNTING BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The financial statements of the Group have been prepared in The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries adopted for use in the EU.
made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies Bodycote International plcs consolidated financial statements were of an investee entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP until 1 January 2005.
UK GAAP differs On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a in some areas from IFRS.
In preparing this financial information, subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
management has amended certain accounting and valuation methods Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the applied in the UK GAAP financial statements to comply with the identiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency recognition and measurement criteria of IFRS.
The comparative of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identiable net gures in respect of 2004 were restated to reect these adjustments.
assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to profit and loss in the period of acquisition.
The interest of minority shareholders The Group has adopted Standards and Interpretations issued by the is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets International Accounting Standards Board IASB and the International and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, any losses applicable to the Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee of the IASB.
Individual minority interest in excess of the minority interest are allocated standards and interpretations have to be adopted by the European against the interests of the parent.
Commission EC and the process leads to a delay between the issue and adoption of new standards and in some cases amendment by the EC.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date International Financial Reporting Standards are subject to ongoing of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
amendment by the IASB and subsequent endorsement by the EC Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements and are therefore subject to change.
of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those In addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRS used by the Group.
as adopted for use in the European Union, the group has also complied All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historic cost INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES convention, with the exception of accounting for share-based payments.
An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
significant inuence, but not control or joint control, through participation FIRST-TIME ADOPTION OF IFRS in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
IFRS 1, 'First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards', The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated has been applied in preparing these financial statements.
IFRS 1 sets in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
out the procedures that must be followed when adopting IFRS for the Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as first time as the basis for the group financial statements.
The Group adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net is required to establish its IFRS accounting policies at 31 December assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual 2005 and apply these retrospectively to determine the IFRS opening investments.
Losses of the associates in excess of the Groups interest balance sheet at the date of transition, 1 January 2004. in those associates are not recognised.
IFRS 1 provides a number of optional exemptions to this general rule, Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the the most significant of which are: fair values of the identiable net assets of the associate at the date Business combinations - the Group has elected not to restate of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of accounting for business combinations prior to the date of transition: acquisition below the Groups share of the fair values of the identiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition i. e. discount on Employee benets - the Group has elected to recognise all cumulative acquisition is credited in profit and loss in the period of acquisition.
actuarial gains and losses in respect of its dened benefit schemes Where a group company transacts with an associate of the Group, at the date of transition, with subsequent actuarial gains and losses profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in recognised in full in the period in which they occur in the Statement the relevant associate.
Losses may provide evidence of an impairment of Recognised Income and Expense: of the asset transferred, in which case appropriate provision is made Financial instruments - the Group has elected to adopt IAS 32 and for impairment.
IAS 39 from 1 January 2005 and comparative information is therefore NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE presented in accordance ith UK GAAP: and Non-current assets and disposal groups classied as held for sale are Share-based payments - the group has elected to apply IFRS 2 to all measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
share-based payments granted after 7 November 2002 but not vested Non-current assets and disposal groups are classied as held for sale if at 1 January 2005. their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classication.
30 Bodycote annual report 2005 GOODWILL FOREIGN CURRENCIES Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identiable at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are entity at the date of acquisition.
denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least are included in net profit or loss for the period.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the exchange rates for the period unless exchange rates uctuate profit or loss on disposal.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classied as Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS equity and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts, subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves which the operation is disposed of.
under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
The Group has elected to treat REVENUE RECOGNITION goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisitions before the Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received date of transition to IFRS as sterling-denominated assets and liabilities.
or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and BORROWING COSTS other sales-related taxes.
Borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the GOVERNMENT GRANTS rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
treated as deferred income and released to profit and loss over the Dividend income from investments is recognised when the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
OPERATING PROFIT THE GROUP AS LESSEE Operating profit is stated after charging restructuring costs, goodwill impairment, amortisation of acquired intangible assets and after the Leases are classied as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership post-tax share of results of associates but before investment income and finance costs.
All other leases are classied as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the RETIREMENT BENEFIT COSTS Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the Payments to dened contribution retirement benefit schemes are minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the charged as an expense as they fall due.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned to dened contribution schemes where the Groups obligations under between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a dened contribution to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the retirement benefit scheme.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
For dened benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost of providing Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on benets is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which Benets received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating they occur.
They are recognised outside profit or loss and presented lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
in the statement of recognised income and expense.
THE GROUP AS LESSOR Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded as benets are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straightreceivables at the amount of the groups net investment in the leases.
line basis over the average period until the benets become vested.
Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to reect The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet a constant periodic rate of return on the Groups net investment represents the present value of the dened benefit obligation, as outstanding in respect of the leases.
reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
