Explanation of transition to IFRS continued Explanatory notes: m Tax expense: Decrease due to the impact on deferred tax of no longer a Other intangible assets: IAS 38 Intangible Assets requires certain being permitted to discount the expected liability to present value.
software to be reported as intangible xed assets.
They were previously included in property, plant and equipment.
n Goodwill: IFRS 3 Business Combinations requires goodwill to be subject to an annual impairment review rather than be amortised over b Property, Plant and Equipment: Changes are made up as follows: a specified period.
m o Other intangible assets: IAS 38 Intangible Assets requires certain Reclassication of software to software to be reported as intangible xed assets.
They were previously Other Intangible Assets note a above 1.5 included in property, plant and equipment.
Reclassication to Non-current Assets p Property, Plant and Equipment: Changes are made up as follows: Held for Sale see note d below 1.9 Reclassication of maintenance spares m from inventory see note c below 4.7 Reclassication of software to Reclassication of operating leases 1.5 Other intangible assets note o above 1.4 2.8 Reclassication to Non-current Assets Held for Sale see note s below 7.3 Reclassication of maintenance spares c Inventories: Under IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment maintenance from inventory see note r below 4.4 spares are treated as non-current assets rather than inventory.
Reclassication of operating leases 1.5 d Non-Current Assets Held for Sale: Under IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets held 2.8 for sale and Discontinued Operations non-current assets, such as closed plant buildings, are presented separately from other non-current assets.
The adjustment represents the transfer from Property, Plant and Equipment q Deferred tax asset: Under IAS 12 Income Taxes restrictions are placed after fair value adjustments.
on the netting of deferred tax assets and liabilities.
e Accounts payable: Adjustments are primarily due to dividends which, r Inventories: Under IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment maintenance under IAS 10 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, may not be recognised spares are treated as non-current assets rather than inventory.
s Non-Current Assets Held for Sale: Under IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held f Obligations under finance leases: Increase is due to reclassication of for Sale and Discontinued Operations non-current assets, such closed operating leases to finance leases as required under IAS 17 Leases.
plant buildings, are presented separately from other non-current assets.
The adjustment represents the transfer from Property, Plant and Equipment g Retirement benefit obligation: The increase is due to the recognition after fair value adjustments.
of dened benefit pension deficits, as required under IAS 19 Employee Benets.
t Accounts payable: Adjustments are primarily due to dividends which, under IAS 10 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, may not be recognised until h Deferred tax liability: Under IAS 12 Income Taxes discounting of deferred appropriately approved.
tax balances is not permitted.
The adjustment reects the reversal of the disounting, 19.6 million, as was permitted under UK GAAP, less the u Obligations under finance leases: Increase is due to reclassication of deferred tax asset of 4.4 million arising from the increase in retirement operating leases to finance leases as required under IAS 17 Leases.
v Retirement benefit obligation: The increase is due to the recognition i Other payables: Reclassication of pension provisions under the of dened benefit pension deficits, as required under IAS 19 requirements of IAS 19 Employee benets.
j Currency and other reserves: Deferred tax adjustments.
w Deferred tax liability: Under IAS 12 Income Taxes discounting of deferred tax balances is not permitted.
The adjustment reects the reversal of k profit from operations after exceptional items: Increase of 9.5 million the disounting, 18.5 million, as was permitted under UK GAAP, plus is due to: the 18.9 million reclassication to deferred tax asset see note q above, m less the deferred tax asset of 6.5 million arising from the recognition of retirement benefit obligations.
Goodwill amortisation: No longer permitted under IFRS 8.5 Deferred tax charge: Effect of no longer discounting x Other payables: Reclassication of pension provisions under the to present value 0.9 requirements of IAS 19 Employee Benets.
Reduction in pension benefit service cost under IAS 19 0.2 y Currency and other reserves: Share based payments of 0.2 million Expense for share-based payments recognised under IFRS 0.1 less deferred tax adjustments of 0.4 million.
9.5 The cash ow differences between UK GAAP and IFRS are either movements within a classication adjustments netting to zero or l Finance costs: Increase of 0.9 million resulted from the transfer of presentational.
There is no impact on the final cash position nor the pension scheme finance charges from operating costs and the movement during the periods presented.
reclassication of operating leases to finance leases.
Events after the balance sheet date Five acquisitions have been completed by the Group since the year end.
