Independent Auditors' Report To The Members Of Bodycote International Plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Bodycote These comprise the amount of each element in the remuneration International plc for the year ended 31 December 2005, which comprise package and information on share options, details of long term incentive the consolidated income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, schemes, and money purchase and dened benefit schemes.
We give the consolidated cash ow statement, the consolidated statement of a statement, to the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
recognised income and expense, the statement of accounting policies We read the Directors Report and the other information contained in and the related notes 1 to 40.
These Group financial statements have the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section, been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have including the unaudited part of the Board Report on Remuneration, and also audited the information in the Board Report on Remuneration that consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any is described as having been audited.
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group The corporate governance statement and the Board Report on financial statements.
Remuneration are included in the individual company annual report BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION of Bodycote International plc for the year ended 31 December 2005.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards We have reported separately on the individual company financial on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
statements of Bodycote International plc for the year ended 31 An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant December 2005 and on the information in the Board Report on to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements and Remuneration included in the individual company annual report the part of the Board Report on Remuneration described as having that is described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Group in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors and adequately disclosed.
report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone, other than the and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
financial statements and the part of the Board Report on Remuneration RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the Board whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our Report on Remuneration and the financial statements in accordance opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting of information in the Group financial statements and the part of the Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union are set out Board Report on Remuneration described as having been audited.
OPINION Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements and the In our opinion: part of the Board Report on Remuneration described as having been the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union, of the state of requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements year then ended: and give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant financial reporting the Group financial statements and the part of the Board Report on framework and whether the Group financial statements and the part of Remuneration described as having been audited have been properly the Board Report on Remuneration described as having been audited prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act of the IAS Regulation.
1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial SEPARATE OPINION IN RELATION TO IFRS statements.
We also report to you if the company has not kept proper As explained in the statement of accounting policies, the Group in accounting records, if we have not received all the information and addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRS explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law as adopted for use in the European Union, has also complied with regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions with the the IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
Accordingly, in our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS, of the state of the Groups affairs We review whether the corporate governance statement reects as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended.
the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statement on internal control covers all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and Deloitte & Touche LLP control procedures.
Chartered Accountants and Manchester We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not Registered Auditors 28 February 2006 complied with any of the four Directors remuneration disclosure requirements specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
