Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 49 accounting policies The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which Joint ventures are those undertakings, not recognised as subsidiaries, in which the group has a are considered material in relation to the group and company financial statements except as participating interest and are jointly controlled.
The groups share of the results of joint noted below.
ventures, which are accounted for under the gross equity method, are included in the profit and loss account and its share of their net assets is included in investments in the group balance Implementation of FRS20 Share-based payment sheet.
During the year, the company has adopted FRS20, issued by the Accounting Standards Board In the company balance sheet, investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures are stated at cost in April 2004, and has restated comparatives accordingly.
The directors believe that the fair being the par value of shares issued where merger relief applies less impairments.
value approach underlying FRS20 gives a more appropriate view of the impact of share-based payment transactions than the previous amortisation treatment, and so the standard has been Foreign currencies adopted early.
The effects of implementation are shown in note 21.
The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries and the results of joint ventures are translated into sterling on an average exchange rate basis, weighted by the actual results of Implementation of UITF38 Accounting for ESOP trusts each month.
Assets and liabilities including currency swaps are translated into sterling at the During the year, the company has adopted UITF38, issued by the Accounting Standards Board rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
and requiring adoption for accounting periods ending on or after 22 June 2004.
Comparatives have been restated accordingly.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the results and net assets of overseas subsidiaries, less offsetting exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings and currency Basis of accounting swaps hedging those assets net of any related tax effects, are dealt with through reserves.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting Where foreign currency hedges are taken out for committed future foreign currency purchases, standards and under the historical cost convention, modified to include the revaluation of the fair value of those hedges are not included in the profit and loss account and balance sheet.
All other exchange differences are dealt with in the profit and loss account.
A separate profit and loss account for the company has not been presented as permitted by The cost of the company investment in shares in overseas subsidiaries is stated at the rate of section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985. exchange in force at the date each investment was made, except where hedge accounting applies in which case the year end rate is used.
Consolidation The group financial statements combine the results of the company and all its subsidiaries and Goodwill and intangible assets joint ventures, to the extent of group ownership and after eliminating intra-group transactions.
Goodwill on acquisitions comprises the excess of the fair value of the consideration plus any Unless otherwise stated, the acquisition method of accounting has been adopted.
Under this associated costs for investments in subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures over the fair method, the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the year are included value of net assets acquired.
Fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets and liabilities in the consolidated profit and loss account from the date of acquisition or up to the date of that existed at the date of acquisition, reflecting their condition at that date.
also made to bring the accounting policies of acquired businesses into alignment with those of the group.
The costs of integrating and reorganising acquired businesses are charged to the post-acquisition profit and loss account.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1st April 1998 has been set off against reserves.
On disposal of such businesses, any goodwill previously set off against reserves is charged in the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal.
For subsequent acquisitions goodwill is recognised within fixed assets in the year in which it arises and amortised on a straight line basis over its useful economic life, not exceeding 20 years.
50 Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 accounting policies The cost of intangible assets acquired which are capitalised only if separately identifiable is Shares are held at original cost in the own shares reserve which forms part of the overall profit not amortised except where the end of the useful economic lives of the acquired intangible and loss reserve.
asset can be reasonably foreseen.
Similar assets created within the business are not capitalised Expense arising from share based payments and expenditure is charged against profits in the year in which it is incurred.
The carrying value The fair value of the shares options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a of intangible assets including in particular those being amortised over periods greater than 20 corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at the grant date and spread over years is reviewed annually and any impairment in value charged to the profit and loss account.
the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the shares options.
The fair value is based on market value.
The amount recognised as an expense reflects the Tangible fixed assets and depreciation estimated number of shares options that are expected to vest except where forfeiture is only Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is provided to write off the cost or valuation, less residual due to total share holder return targets not being achieved.
value, by equal instalments over their expected useful economic lives as follows: Freehold land, assets in the course of construction not depreciated In accordance with the transitional provisions of FRS20, no expense is recorded in respect Freehold and long leasehold buildings, depreciated to their estimated residual values over of grants made under the above schemes prior to 7th November 2002. their useful economic lives of not more than 50 years Short leasehold properties remaining period of lease when less than 50 years Cash and liquid resources Computer equipment including software 3 to 8 years Cash, for the purpose of the cash flow statement, comprises cash in hand and deposits Motor cars 4 or 5 years repayable on demand, less overdrafts payable on demand.
Other motor vehicles 3 to 10 years Liquid resources are current asset investments which are disposable without curtailing or Fixtures and plant 3 to 20 years disrupting the business and are either readily convertible into known amounts of cash at or Any impairment in the value of fixed assets is recognised immediately.
close to their carrying values or traded in an active market.
Liquid resources comprise term deposits of less than one year other than cash.
The group adopted the transitional provisions of FRS15 Tangible Fixed Assets to retain the book value of land and buildings many of which were last revalued in 1993 and has not adopted Derivative financial instruments a policy of annual revaluations for the future.
The derivative financial instruments used by the group to manage its interest rate and currency Profits and losses arising from the disposal of properties which have previously been revalued risks are interest rate swaps, currency swaps and forward rate contracts.
Interest receipts and are calculated by reference to their carrying value.
payments arising on interest rate swaps are recognised within net interest payable over the period of the contract.
Termination payments made or received are amortised over the life of Share-based payment transactions the underlying exposure in cases where the exposure continues to exist, and taken to the profit Shares in the company which have been purchased for the benefit of employees under various and loss account immediately where the underlying exposure ceases to exist.
Interest receipts incentive schemes, are held in three employee share ownerships trusts: and payments arising on currency swaps are recognised gross within interest payable and The qualifying employee share ownership trust QUEST provides for the all employee interest receivable over the period of the contract.
Gains and losses arising on forward currency SAYE scheme contracts entered into to hedge trading transactions are recognised in the profit and loss Shares owned by the ESOP trusts form part of the Boots Long Term Bonus Scheme for account in the same period as the underlying exposure.
Forward contracts hedging cash and executive directors and senior employees borrowings are valued at closing rates of exchange at each period end, with gains and losses Shares owned by all the employee share ownership plan AESOP are conditionally gifted offset against the related cash and borrowings.
The interest differential on these instruments is to all employees employed at a qualifying date and then held in trust for a qualifying service recognised against net interest payable.
period of not less than three years Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 51 Turnover The cost of assets held under finance leases being leases which give rights to the group Turnover comprises sales to external customers excluding VAT and other sales taxes and rental approximating to ownership is included under tangible fixed assets and depreciation is income.
Consideration received from customers is only recorded as turnover when the group provided in accordance with the policy for the class of asset concerned.
The corresponding has completed full performance in respect of that consideration.
obligations under these leases are shown as creditors.
The finance charge element of rentals is charged to the profit and loss account to produce, or approximate to, a constant periodic rate Stocks of charge on the remaining balance of the outstanding obligations.
Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises purchase cost of goods, direct labour and those overheads related to manufacture and distribution based on Deferred taxation normal activity levels.
Deferred tax is provided in respect of all timing differences that have originated, but not reversed, by the balance sheet date except as required by FRS19 Deferred Tax.
Deferred tax Research and development is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods Expenditure on research and development, other than on buildings and plant, is charged against in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws substantively enacted at the profit in the year in which it is incurred.
No provision is made for taxation liabilities which would arise on the distribution of profits Pensions retained by overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures as there is no commitment to remit these Pension costs are recognised in the financial statements in accordance with the requirements profits.
It is not anticipated that any significant taxation will become payable on the revaluation of SSAP24 Accounting for Pension Costs.
surplus or sale of properties, as taxation on gains on properties used for the purpose of the The company and its UK subsidiaries operate pension schemes under which contributions by groups trade is expected to be deferred indefinitely or eliminated by capital losses.
employees and by the companies are held in trust funds separated from the companies finances.
Actuarial valuations of the schemes are conducted at three year intervals and include a review of contributions.
The cost of providing pensions is spread over the employees working lives with the companies.
The cost charged to the profit and loss account in any year may not always equal the employer contributions to the pension schemes.
The group continues to follow the transitional provisions as permitted by FRS17 Retirement Benefits at 31st March 2005 which are disclosed in Note 27.
Leases The rental costs of properties and other assets held under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis.
Benefits received as an incentive to sign a lease, whatever form they may take, are credited to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the lease term or, if shorter than the full lease term, over the period to the review date on which the rent is first expected to be adjusted to the prevailing market rate.
