Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and i the maximum number of shares hereby authorised sixteenth Annual General Meeting of The Edinburgh to be purchased is 14.99% of the issued share Investment Trust plc will be held at the Weston Link, capital of the Company as at the date of the National Galleries of Scotland, Princes Street, passing of this resolution: Edinburgh on Wednesday 20 July 2005 at 2.30pm, for the following purposes: ii the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall be 25p: ORDINARY BUSINESS 1.
To receive the report of the Directors and Auditors iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which and the financial statements for the year ended 31 may be paid for a share shall be an amount equal to March 2005.
105% of the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the London Stock 2.
To approve a final dividend on the ordinary shares.
Exchange Daily Official List for the shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date 3.
To elect Sir Nigel Wicks a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Richard Barfield a Director of the iv unless previously revoked, renewed or varied, the Company.
authority hereby conferred shall expire on the earlier of 19 January 2007 or at the conclusion of 5.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be the year ended 31 March 2005. held in 2006, save that the Company may, prior to such expiry enter into a contract or contracts to 6.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors of the purchase shares under such authority which would Company.
or might be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and the Company may 7.
To authorise the Directors to fix the remuneration of make such a purchase in pursuance of any such the Auditors for the year to 31 March 2006. contract or contracts as if the authority hereby conferred had not expired.
SPECIAL BUSINESS To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following 9.
That the revised Articles of Association, in the resolutions which will be proposed as special form produced to the Annual General Meeting and resolutions.
initialled by the Chairman for purposes of identification, be adopted as the Articles of Special resolution Association of the Company in substitution for and to 8.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, the the exclusion of the existing Articles of Association.
Company be and it is hereby authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, to make market purchases within the meaning By order of the Board of Section 163 3 of the Act of any of its ordinary Fidelity Investments International shares of 25p each shares in such manner and Secretary upon such terms as the Directors of the Company may 14 June 2005 from time to time determine, provided that: The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2005 Page 45 Notice of Meeting Notes: any adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or 1.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any provisions meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend in any enactment, the Articles of Association of the and, on a poll, vote on his her behalf.
A proxy need Company or other instrument to the contrary.
not be a member of the Company.
There are special arrangements for holders of 2.
A form of proxy for use by shareholders is enclosed shares through the Fidelity Investment Trust Share with these accounts.
Completion and return of the Plan and the Fidelity Investment Trust ISA PEP, and form of proxy will not prevent any shareholder from for holders through InvestIT - the Edinburgh Fund attending the meeting and voting in person.
To be Managers Investment Trust Savings Plan and valid, the form of proxy should be lodged, together ISA PEP and Pension arrangements.
These are with any power of attorney or other authority if any explained in the Letter of Direction which such under which it is signed or a notarially certified holders will have received with this report.
copy of such power or authority at the address stated thereon, so as to be received not less than 5.
Copies of the Directors letters of appointment will 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
be available prior to the Annual General Meeting.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated 6.
Copies of the existing Articles of Association of the Securities Regulations 2001, the Company specifies Company and the proposed revised Articles of that only those shareholders entered on the register Association will be available for inspection during of members of the Company as at 6.00pm on 18 normal business hours on any day Saturdays, July 2005 or, in the event that the meeting is Sundays and public holidays excepted until the close adjourned, on the register of members 48 hours of the Annual General Meeting at the registered before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be office of the Company, 3 Glenfinlas Street, Edinburgh entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect EH3 6AQ, at the offices of Fidelity Investments of the number of ordinary shares registered in their International, the Company Secretary, 25 Cannon name at that time.
Changes to the entries in the Street, London EC4M 5TA, and will also be available register of members after 6.00pm on 18 July 2005 at The Weston Link, National Galleries of Scotland, or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, on Princes Street, Edinburgh from at least 15 minutes the register of members 48 hours before the time of prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
Financial Calendar This years Annual General Meeting will be held at the Announcements, ordinary share dividend payments Weston Link, National Galleries of Scotland, Princes and the issue of the annual and interim reports may Street, Edinburgh on Wednesday 20 July 2005 at normally be expected in the following months: 2.30pm.
Shareholders are asked to reply on the enclosed card if they will be attending the meeting.
May Preliminary figures and recommended final dividend for year announced.
Following the meeting shareholders will have the opportunity to meet the Board informally and June Annual report and accounts published.
Tea and biscuits will be served.
July Annual General Meeting and final dividend paid.
October Interim figures and interim dividend announced.
Debenture stock interest payable November Interim report for half-year to 1 11 2 % debenture stock 2014 30 June and 31 December 30 September published.
3 7 4 % debenture stock 2022 31 March and 30 September December Interim dividend paid.
Page 46 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2005
