Notes to the Accounts 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include the revaluation of investments and in accordance with applicable Accounting Standards and with the Association of Investment Trust Companies AITC Statement of Recommended Practice: Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies the SORP dated January 2003.
They have also been prepared on the assumption that approval as an investment trust will continue to be granted.
a Revenue, expenses and interest payable Income from equity investments, including taxes deducted at source, is included in revenue by reference to the date on which the investment is quoted ex-dividend.
Foreign income is converted at the exchange rate applicable at the time of receipt.
Interest receivable on fixed interest securities, short term deposits, expenses and interest payable are treated on an accruals basis.
Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than cash, the amount of the cash dividend is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend is recognised in capital reserves.
Expenses are charged to capital where they are incurred in connection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of the investments.
In this respect the investment management fee and relevant finance costs are allocated between revenue and capital, in line with the Boards expectation of returns from the Companys investments over the long term in the form of revenue and capital respectively.
Since April 2000, the Company has allocated 70% of management fee and debenture interest to capital and 30% to income costs.
In accordance with the SORP the Board has reviewed this policy and, having examined consensus forecasts of capital return and dividend payments, sees no need to change the existing policy at this time.
b Investments Listed investments are valued at middle market prices.
Unlisted investments are valued at market prices ruling where an organised market in such investments exists: other unquoted investments are included at Directors valuation.
Where a price is not readily available the holding is valued at cost unless circumstances indicate a different valuation is warranted.
In general, valuations are increased where a substantial arms length transaction has occurred subsequent to acquisition, at a price higher than cost.
Valuations are decreased where subsequent transactions have taken place at a price lower than cost or where Fidelitys Fair Value Committee is aware that the company is experiencing operating difficulties, or there is a limited market place for the shares thus making them illiquid.
c Transactions denominated in foreign currencies Any such transactions are calculated in sterling at the rate of exchange ruling as at the date of the transactions.
Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Realised and unrealised capital gains and losses, including exchange differences on the translation of foreign currency assets and liabilities, are dealt with in capital reserves realised and unrealised.
d Realised capital reserves Gains and losses on realisation of investments and differences on exchange are dealt with in the realised capital reserves.
The capital element of the investment management fee along with the associated irrecoverable VAT and relevant finance costs are charged to this reserve.
Any associated tax relief is credited to this reserve.
e Unrealised capital reserves Increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held are dealt with in the unrealised capital reserve.
f Taxation Deferred taxation is provided for in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax in future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is only recognised to the extent that its recovery is considered more likely than not.
Deferred tax is recorded in accordance with FRS19 Deferred Tax.
Page 30 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2005
