Statement of Directors Responsibilities Company law requires the Directors to prepare prepare the financial statements on the going financial statements for each financial year which give a concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company that the Company will continue in business.
and of the revenue of the Company for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are The Directors confirm that they comply with all the required to: above requirements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with select suitable accounting policies and then apply reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position them consistently: of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act make judgements and estimates that are 1985.
They have a general responsibility for taking reasonable and prudent: such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent state whether applicable accounting standards have and to detect fraud and other irregularities.
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: Directors Remuneration Report This report has been prepared by the Board of recommendation, resolved that the Chairman should Directors in accordance with the requirements of receive an annual fee of 40,000 and that each Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 in respect of Director should be paid a fee of 22,000 per annum.
An ordinary resolution The increases in such fees were to be staged over for the approval of this report will be put to the three years with the first increase coming into effect on members at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The third and final increase was made with effect from 1 October 2003.
The Board also REMUNERATION POLICY decided that the Senior Independent Director and the The whole Board, which is comprised solely of nonChairman of the Audit Committee should receive an executive Directors, acts as a remuneration committee additional 5,000 per annum and 2,500 per annum as and when required to consider the level of the fees respectively with effect from 1 October 2001 in respect payable to Directors.
The Boards policy is that the of their additional responsibilities.
level of remuneration of non-executive Directors should be fair and sufficient to attract and retain the DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS Directors needed to oversee properly the Company It is the Boards policy that Directors do not have and to reflect the specific circumstances of the service contracts, but new Directors are provided with Company, the duties and responsibilities of the a letter of appointment.
The letter of appointment Directors and the value and amount of time committed provides that Directors should retire and be subject to to the Companys affairs.
It is intended that this policy election at the first Annual General Meeting after their will continue for the year ending 31 March 2006 and appointment.
Thereafter Directors are obliged to retire subsequent years.
The Companys Articles of by rotation, and offer themselves for re-election by Association limit the total fees payable to Directors to shareholders at least every three years after that.
Non-executive Directors are not is no notice period and no provision for compensation eligible for any performance related fees, bonuses, upon early termination of appointment.
pension benefits, share options, long-term incentive schemes or other benefits.
COMPANY PERFORMANCE The graph on page 25 compares the Companys net asset As mentioned in the 2003 report, at the beginning of value and share price performance on a total return basis 2001 a sub-committee was formed to review the level over the last five financial years ending 31 March 2005 with of remuneration payable to the Chairman and the the performance of the FTSE All-Share Index over the same Directors of the Company.
This Index has been chosen as it corresponds with considered, inter alia, the committees the Companys stated objectives as shown on page 1.
Page 24 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2005
