Investing in The Edinburgh Investment Trust The Manager of this trust Fidelity Investments International offers a range of options, so you can invest in the way that is best for you.
As The Edinburgh Investment Trust is a listed company you can also buy its shares through a stockbroker, share shop or bank.
INVESTING INSIDE AN ISA MOVING MONEY FROM A Fidelity ISA Individual Savings Account can be PREVIOUS PEPS AND ISAS an excellent way to get more from your investment, If you have opened ISAs or PEPs with other because you will not have to pay income or capital investment companies, you can move them into The gains tax on your returns.
Edinburgh Investment Trust without losing any tax benefits.
This is known as a transfer and it can be a up to 7,000 in a Maxi ISA great way to give your portfolio a new focus, or to realign it with your current investment goals.
Please up to 4,000 in a Mini stocks and shares ISA note that during the transfer your money will not be invested in the stock market so you may miss out on The minimum investment in the Fidelity Investment any growth during this time.
Trust ISA is 1,000 as a lump sum, 250 as a top-up or 50 a month in a regular savings plan.
Charges The standard initial charge for a transfer is 3.5%.
You will not have to pay any additional transfer 5 in 1 ISA The Edinburgh Investment Trust is one of costs.
However, please bear in mind that your current five investment trusts managed by Fidelity.
You can ISA or PEP manager may ask you to pay an exit fee.
invest in the entire range through the Fidelity 5-in-1 The annual charge is as shown in the Investing inside ISA, which spreads your money equally across all five an ISA section.
This offers a simple and convenient way to invest across Europe, the UK, Japan and Asia giving you a broadly diversified portfolio in a single investment.
Charges The standard initial charge for the Fidelity ISA is 3.5%.
The annual charge for the Edinburgh Investment Trust within an ISA is 0.5% VAT.
There is an additional annual charge of 0.5% VAT when you invest through an Independent Financial Adviser.
KEEPING YOU UPDATED If you hold The Edinburgh Investment Trust in an ISA or PEP, you will receive a yearly report detailing all your transactions and the value of your shares.
Investors with the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan will receive statements and valuations twice a year.
The share price of The Edinburgh Investment Trust appears daily in The Financial Times, The Times, The Guardian, The Daily Telegraph, The Scotsman and The Herald.
Price and performance information is also available at itseit.
Investors can obtain the real-time share price by phoning FT Cityline on 0906 843 2422.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2005 Page 47 Investing in The Edinburgh Investment Trust INVESTING OUTSIDE AN ISA MOVING EXISTING SHARES TO FIDELITY If you prefer to invest outside an ISA, or have already If you have an Edinburgh Investment Trust ISA or PEP used your full ISA allowance, the Fidelity Investment with the previous manager Edinburgh Fund Managers Trust Share Plan offers you a low-cost and convenient EFM you can transfer it to Fidelity, who will pay way to put money into The Edinburgh Investment Trust.
the exit fee charged by EFM.
The minimum investment is 1,000 as a lump sum, 250 Alternatively, if you have invested in the trust outside an as a top-up or 50 a month in a regular savings plan.
ISA through the EFM investment trust savings scheme InvestIT, you can move your shares to the Fidelity Investing for children The Share Plan is a flexible and Share Plan again Fidelity will cover any exit fees inexpensive way to invest on behalf of children.
This transfer could be particularly have to do is enter the initials or name of the child in useful for investors who are restarting a monthly savings the Designation Box on the Share Plan application plan no longer available with the EFM scheme and form.
A special leaflet on investing for children through want all their holdings together in one account.
investment trusts is available from Fidelity.
An additional bonus for investors transferring holdings Charges There are no charges for buying, selling or from EFM is that Fidelity will accept monthly savings holding shares through the Fidelity Investment Trust contributions below its normal minimum investment of Share Plan other than Stamp Duty of 0.5%, which is 50 a month.
currently payable on all share purchases.
However, if you invest through an Independent Financial Adviser, Holding shares directly Finally, if you have shares in there may be an initial charge of up to 3%.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust that you bought through a broker or share shop, you can transfer them into the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan.
Doing this allows you to reinvest your dividends and make further investments without having to pay brokerage fees.
You will also be able to set up a monthly savings plan and receive statements and valuations twice a year.
FURTHER INFORMATION For application forms or more information about any of the investment options described here, please call the Fidelity Investment Trust Line on 0800 41 41 10 and talk to a Fidelity customer representative 9am to 6pm.
Alternatively, you may like to visit the Fidelity London Investor Centre at 25 Cannon Street, next to St Pauls Cathedral.
You can also find out more by visiting itseit.
co. uk or contacting your Independent Financial Adviser.
The Fidelity Individual Savings Account ISA is offered and managed by Financial Administration Services Limited and the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is offered by Fidelity Investments International.
Both companies are authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
The value of savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will depend on individual circumstancces and all tax rules may change in the future.
Fidelity only provides information about its products and will not give investment advice based on individual circumstances.
Should you wish to seek advice, please contact an Independent Financial Adviser.
Issued by Fidelity Investments International.
CB22996 Page 48 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2005
