Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and first within the meaning of Section 94 2 of the Act Annual General Meeting of Edinburgh US Tracker for cash at a price not below the net asset value Trust plc will be held at the registered office of the per share, pursuant to any general authority company, Donaldson House, 97 Haymarket Terrace, conferred upon them for the purposes of Section Edinburgh, on Wednesday 12 May 2004 at 80 of the Act as if Section 89 1 of the Act did 11.00am for the purpose of transacting the not apply to any such allotment, up to an following business: aggregate nominal amount of 7,365,097, provided that this power shall be limited: ORDINARY BUSINESS 1.
To adopt the reports of the directors and auditors i to the allotment of equity securities in and the financial statements for the year ended connection with any rights issue in favour of 31 January 2004: the holders of ordinary shares on the register on a date fixed by the directors where the 2.
To approve the directors report on remuneration equity securities respectively attributable to for the year ended 31 January 2004: the interests of all the holders of ordinary 3.
To declare a final dividend of 2.85p per share: shares are proportionate as nearly as practicable to the respective numbers of 4.
To re-elect Mr Ferguson as a director: ordinary shares held by them on that date, 5.
To elect Mr Hunter as a director: provided that the directors may make such exclusions or other arrangements as they may 6.
To elect Mr Crawford as a director: deem necessary or expedient in relation to 7.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors: fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws in any territory or 8.
To authorise the directors to determine the the requirements of any relevant regulatory auditors remuneration for the year ended body or stock exchange: and 31 January 2005. ii to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to SPECIAL BUSINESS paragraph i of this resolution of equity To consider and, if thought fit, to pass Resolution 9 securities up to an aggregate nominal amount as an Ordinary Resolution and Resolutions 10 and of 2,209,529 being 10% of the nominal 11 as Special Resolutions.
value of the existing issued share capital of the company: Ordinary resolution 9.
That the board of directors be released from the and such power shall expire at the conclusion of obligation in Article 152 of the companys the next annual general meeting of the company articles of association to convene an after the passing of this resolution or 15 months Extraordinary General Meeting of the company from the passing of this resolution, whichever is to be held on 31 July 2003 at which an ordinary earlier, unless previously revoked, varied or resolution will be proposed pursuant to Section extended by the company in general meeting, 84 of the Insolvency Act 1986 requiring the save that the company may, before such expiry, company to be wound up voluntarily.
make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after Special resolutions such expiry and the directors may allot equity 10.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, securities pursuant to any such offer or the directors be and are hereby empowered agreement as if the power conferred hereby had pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act not expired.
1985 the Act to allot equity securities PAGE 33 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notice of Meeting 11.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, Note: the company be authorised, in accordance with 1.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote at Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the the meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to Act, to make market purchases within the attend and, on a poll, vote on his her behalf.
A meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act of proxy need not be a member of the company.
ordinary shares of 25p each ordinary shares, provided that:- 2.
A form of proxy for use by shareholders is enclosed with these accounts.
Completion and a the maximum number of ordinary shares return of the form of proxy will not prevent any hereby authorised to be purchased shall be shareholder from attending the meeting and 14.99% of the issued share capital of the voting in person.
To be valid, the form of proxy company as at the date of the passing of this should be lodged, together with any Power of resolution: Attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or an extract from the Books of b the minimum price which may be paid for Council and Session or a notarially certified copy an ordinary share shall be 25p: of such power or authority at the address stated thereon, so as to be received not less than 48 c the maximum price exclusive of expenses hours before the time of the meeting.
which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be an amount equal to 105% of the 3.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated average of the middle market quotations as Securities Regulations 2001, the company derived from the Daily Official List of the specifies that only those shareholders entered on London Stock Exchange for the ordinary the register of members of the company as at shares for the five business days immediately 6.00pm on 10 May 2004 or, in the event that the preceding the date of purchase: and meeting is adjourned, on the register of members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, meeting, shall be entitled to attend and vote at the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the meeting in respect of the number of ordinary 11 November 2005, save that the company shares registered in their name at that time.
may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract Changes to the entries on the register of to purchase ordinary shares under such members after 6.00pm on 10 May 2004 or, in authority which will or might be executed the event that the meeting is adjourned, in the wholly or partly after the expiration of such register of members 48 hours before the time of authority and may make a purchase of any adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract.
determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any By order of the board, provisions in any enactment, the articles of association of the company or other instrument Edinburgh Fund Managers plc to the contrary.
There are special arrangements for holders of shares through InvestIT The Edinburgh Fund Registered office: Managers Investment Trust Savings Plan and Donaldson House Individual Savings Account Personal Equity Plan 97 Haymarket Terrace and Pension arrangements.
These are explained Edinburgh EH12 5HD in the Letter of Direction which such holders will have received with this report.
PAGE 34 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Aberdeen US cover hfs 9 3 04 3:03 pm Page 2 Edinburgh Fund Managers plc Donaldson House 97 Haymarket Terrace Edinburgh EH12 5HD Tel 0131 313 1000 Fax 0131 313 6303
