Financial Calendar This years Annual General Meeting will be held on Wednesday 12 May 2004 at 11.00am.
Announcements, ordinary share dividend payments and the issue of the annual and interim reports may normally be expected in the following months: March Preliminary figures and recommended final dividend for year announced.
Annual report and accounts published May Annual General Meeting and final dividend paid September Interim results announced October Interim report for half-year to 31 July published and interim dividend paid Capital Gains Tax Information The market value on 31 March 1982 of the companys ordinary shares was 62.5p per share.
PAGE 30 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Information for Investors INVESTMENT TRUSTS investors to maximise the amounts placed in stocks It is the business of investment trusts, advised and shares.
Investors will have the opportunity to by their managers, to invest in the shares of invest up to 7,000 in each of the tax years up to other companies.
The investment objectives 2005 06 in Edinburgh US Tracker Trust where they vary from trust to trust ranging from take out a Maxi ISA.
investment for capital growth and or income, to trusts which invest internationally, in a The initial charge is 30 VAT and the annual specific area of the world or in a single country management fee is 0.5% VAT capped at market.
Investing in investment trusts can 60 VAT.
No charges are made for buying or provide a spread of investments, managed by selling shares other than Government Stamp Duty experts, at low cost.
HOW TO INVEST As with all equity investments, the value of Ordinary shares investment trusts purchased will immediately be Investors can buy and sell shares in Edinburgh US reduced by the difference between the buying and Tracker Trust directly through a stockbroker or selling prices of the shares, the market makers spread.
indirectly through a lawyer, accountant or other professional adviser.
Alternatively shares can be PEP bought directly through The Edinburgh Fund PEP investors can continue to hold their existing Managers Investment Trust Savings Plan, Investment PEPs.
No further contributions can be made to a Trust ISA PEP and the Investment Trust Pension.
PEP other than reinvestment of any income generated.
However, investors will be able to PRODUCT DETAILS transfer between different PEP funds and different InvestIT The Edinburgh Fund Managers PEP providers without losing their tax advantages.
Investment Trust Savings Plan To enable investors to take advantage of transferring InvestIT provides a straightforward way to invest in into a PEP in Edinburgh US Tracker Trust, a PEP Edinburgh US Tracker Trust and other investment transfer brochure is available.
Again charges are low trusts managed by Edinburgh Fund Managers.
with no entrance transfer fee being charged.
An Investors can make regular monthly payments annual management charge of 0.5% VAT capped at minimum 30 per month or invest occasional 40 is charged.
lump sums minimum 250 initially and 30 thereafter.
Lower amounts of 20, 150 and 20 Investors should further bear in mind that the value respectively can be made in InvestIT for Children.
of any tax relief will depend on the individual Existing shareholders can also invest in the Plan and circumstances of the investor and that tax rates and have their dividends reinvested.
There is no charge reliefs, as well as the tax treatment of ISAs and for buying or holding shares through InvestIT other PEPs, may be changed by future legislation.
than 0.5% Government Stamp Duty which is currently payable on all share purchases.
A The Edinburgh Fund Managers transaction fee of 10 VAT is levied on all sales.
Investment Trust Pension The Investment Trust Pension enables investors to Edinburgh Fund Managers save for retirement by investing in Edinburgh US Investment Trust ISA PEP Tracker Trust.
A wide range of investors can enjoy the ISA benefits of a Personal Pension Plan.
Contributions The Edinburgh Fund Managers Investment Trust can be made monthly, yearly or by lump sums, and Individual Savings Account ISA is a tax efficient there are low minimum investment amounts.
There are two types of ISAs available, a Maxi and a Mini.
A Maxi ISA allows PAGE 31 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Information for Investors Note Website: www.
co. uk Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to the future.
Stock market and For information and application forms on the currency movements may cause the value of shares InvestIT, ISA PEP, Pension and Share Exchange and the income from them to fall as well as rise and Schemes please contact: investors may not get back the amount they originally invested.
Shareholder Relations Edinburgh Fund Managers plc Keeping you informed Donaldson House The companys share price appears under the 97 Haymarket Terrace heading Investment Trusts in the Financial Times, Edinburgh EH12 5HD The Daily Telegraph, The Times, The Independent Telephone: 0131-313 1000 and The Scotsman.
Investors can also obtain the or FREE on 0800-028 6789 24 hours latest share price by phoning FT Cityline on 0906-003 1598.
All calls cost 60p per minute.
InvestIT Administrator Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland For internet users, detailed data on Edinburgh US Registrar Department SP Tracker Trust, including price and performance PO Box 28448 information, is available on the companys website Finance House www.
com and on the Orchard Brae Edinburgh Fund Managers website www.
com Edinburgh EH4 1WQ and the TrustNet website www.
Telephone: 0870-606 0268 For information concerning your shareholding, Individual Savings Account please contact: Personal Equity Plan Administrator Bank of New York Europe Ltd Registrars Edinburgh Fund Managers plc Computershare Investor Services PLC ISA PEP Department PO Box 82, The Pavilions 12 Blenheim Place Bridgewater Road Edinburgh EH7 5ZR Bristol BS99 7NH Telephone: 0800-028 6789 Telephone: 0870-702-0010 Pension Administrator Edinburgh Pension Centre Personal Pension Management Limited 141 Castle Street Salisbury Wiltshire SP1 3TB Telephone: 0800-137 079 The above has been approved for the purposes of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 by Edinburgh Fund Managers plc which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
PAGE 32 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
