Accounting policies A summary of the principal accounting policies, all of which have been consistently applied throughout the year and the preceding year is set out below.
a Basis of accounting The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include the revaluation of investments.
The accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, with the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and on the assumption that approval as an investment trust will continue to be granted.
b Investment income and interest receivable Dividends are included in revenue in the year in which they are quoted ex-dividend.
Interest on investments and other interest receivable are dealt with on an accruals basis.
c Taxation Deferred taxation is provided on all timing differences, calculated at the current rate of tax relevant to the benefit or liability.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that there will be, more likely than not, taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
d Investments Listed investments are valued at the closing market prices ruling at the relevant balance sheet date.
e Capital reserve Realised Gains and losses on realisation of investments and exchange differences of a capital nature are dealt with in this reserve.
Unrealised Unrealised depreciation appreciation of investments is accounted for in this reserve.
f Foreign currency Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are converted at the rates of exchange ruling on the balance sheet date.
Transactions involving foreign currencies are converted at the rate ruling on the date of the transaction.
Gains and losses on the realisation of foreign currencies are transferred directly to capital reserve.
g Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis and are charged through the revenue account except where i they directly relate to the acquisition or disposal of an investment, in which case, they are added to the cost of the investment or deduced from the sale proceeds, and ii expenses are charged to capital reserve realised where a connection with maintenance or enhancement of the value of investments can be demonstrated.
2004 2003 000 000 2 Investment income Dividends from overseas listed investments 7,687 7,746 3 Investment management fee Investment management fee 1,047 1,104 On 16 October 2003, the management fee paid to Edinburgh Fund Managers plc was decreased from 0.0625% per quarter of the total assets to 0.05% per quarter of the total assets.
The fee is subject to VAT at the appropriate rate although the company currently recovers all VAT paid.
The management agreement between the company and Edinburgh Fund Managers plc is terminable by either party on 3 months notice.
PAGE 23 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
