Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting Item 1: Report and accounts The directors must present to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting the report of the directors and the accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2005.
The report of the directors, the accounts and the report of the Company's auditors on the accounts are contained within the annual report and accounts.
Item 2: Directors remuneration The directors are required to present the report on directors remuneration, which sets out remuneration policy, to shareholders for approval under the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The report on directors remuneration can be found on pages 28 to 35 of the report and accounts.
Item 3: Final dividend Subject to the declaration of the final dividend at the meeting, the dividend will be paid on 26 May 2006 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 31 March 2006.
It is intended that a scrip dividend alternative will also be offered to shareholders.
Items 4, 5 and 6: Re-appointment of directors The Company's Articles of Association require that at every Annual General Meeting one third of the directors who are subject to retirement by rotation shall retire from office.
Mark Patrick Nicholls and Malcolm Robert Harris will retire by rotation and offer themselves for re-appointment.
The Company's Articles of Association also require that any director appointed by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting shall hold office only until the next following Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, John Anthony Warren will offer himself for re-appointment.
The 2003 Combined Code on Corporate Governance contains provisions dealing with the re-appointment of non-executive directors.
In relation to the re-appointment of Mark Patrick Nicholls as a non-executive director, the Chairman has confirmed following the formal performance evaluation conducted during 2005 that he continues to be effective in and demonstrate commitment to his role, including commitment of time for Board and committee meetings and his appointment as Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman has also confirmed that John Anthony Warren has been effective in and demonstrated commitment to his role, including commitment of time for Board and Committee meetings, since his appointment on 1 March 2006.
Brief details of all the directors are to be found on pages 18 and 19 of the report and accounts.
Items 7 and 8: Re-appointment of auditors and auditors remuneration The auditors of a company must be re-appointed at each general meeting at which accounts are presented.
Resolution 7 proposes the re-appointment of the Company's existing auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, for a further year.
Resolution 8 gives authority to the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Item 9: Authority to allot shares Resolution 9 renews the authority given to your directors at the last Annual General Meeting to allot relevant securities in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of the resolution.
The directors intend to seek renewal of this authority at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
The authority sought is limited to an aggregate nominal amount of 15,278,944 being 25.58% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 17 March 2006.
The Company did not hold any shares in treasury as at 17 March 2006.
The Board has no specific plans to exercise this authority other than in connection with employee share schemes, and the operation of any scrip dividend offer and any scrip dividend mandate scheme.
It wishes to obtain the necessary authority from shareholders so that allotments can be made should it be desirable and should suitable market conditions arise at short notice and without the need to convene an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company which would be both costly and time consuming.
Item 10: Disapplication of pre-emption rights Resolution 10 seeks to renew the authority given to your directors at the last Annual General Meeting to make limited allotments of ordinary shares for cash without application of the statutory pre-emption rights which require a company to offer all allotments of ordinary shares for cash proportionately to existing shareholders first pursuant to Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985.
This power would provide the directors with the flexibility to act in the best interests of shareholders when opportunities arise, so that: i the Company can follow normal practices in the event of a rights issue: and ii ordinary shares may be issued wholly for cash other than proportionately to existing ordinary shareholders up to a maximum of 2,986,052.50 which represents 5% of the Company's total ordinary share capital in issue as at 17 March 2006.
There are presently no plans to allot ordinary shares wholly for cash other than in connection with employee share schemes.
Shares allotted under an employee share scheme are not subject to statutory pre-emption rights.
The authority sought by Resolution 10 will last until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of the resolution.
The directors intend to seek renewal of this power at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 69 Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting continued Item 11: Authority to purchase own shares In accordance with Article 45 the directors are seeking renewal of the authority granted at last years Annual General Meeting to enable the Company to make market purchases of up to 11,944,211 of its own shares representing approximately 10% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 17 March 2006.
Before exercising such authority, the directors would ensure that the Company was complying with the current relevant UK Listing Authority and ABI guidelines.
No purchases would be made unless the directors believe that the effect would be to increase the earnings per share of the remaining shareholders and the directors consider the purchases to be in the best interest of shareholders generally.
Any shares so purchased would be cancelled.
The directors have no present intention of making such purchases but, in view of the strong balance sheet position, would like to have the flexibility to consider such purchases in the future.
Any purchase of ordinary shares would be by means of market purchases through the London Stock Exchange.
The maximum price per share for any purchase would not be in excess of 5% above the average of the market values for an ordinary share of the Company derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for each of the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary shares are purchased.
The minimum price would be 50 pence being the nominal value of each ordinary share.
The authority will only be valid until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting in 2007.
As at 17 March 2006 there were options over 1,488,873 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company which represent 1.25% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
If the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares was exercised in full, these options would represent 1.39% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
Page 70 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
