How can we make energy more distinctive?
As indispensable as energy is to everyday life and economic progress, we also know its often considered as merely a commodity.
We believe that our products can and should be seen differently and that they should offer customers something of greater value.
We work hard to build brands that offer customers not only a fill-up or convenient meal but also a welcome break in their busy lives.
From single consumers to our significant business-to-business partners in key market segments, our brand relationships encourage customers to see BP as a source of assurance and confidence as well as a source of products and services.
12 Making energy more THE EDGE IN LUBRICANTS Castrol Edge is extending BPs presence in the high-performance synthetics end of the lubricants market.
Castrol Edge aims to appeal to passionate car enthusiasts with high-performance technology, credible technical endorsements and contemporary marketing.
Launched in 2005, Castrol Edge is now available in selected markets in Europe, Australasia and Africa.
ULTIMATE EXPANSION Ultimate, BPs premium fuel for clean performance and improved fuel economy, is now available in 13 countries around the world.
Ultimate has distinctive brand value an advantage that we reinforce through continual communications and product innovations.
CLOSE, ENDURING PARTNERSHIPS More than a supplier of fuels, BP is a strategic partner to some of the worlds best-known brands and largest-scale businesses.
These partners rely on us to be actively and closely engaged with multiple areas of their operations, and to deliver solutions such as energy strategy, operating efficiency or co-branding that provide advantage to both partners.
GROWING WITH ASIA BPs aromatics and acetyls A&A business is one of our largest businessto-business operations.
Its products are distinctive in technological sophistication, history of growth and importance in key markets.
BPs A&A investment bias is towards Asia, with a special focus on China, where burgeoning growth for our products generates opportunities to apply our leading technology in world-class projects.
BP Annual Review 2005 13 GROWING OIL AND NATURAL GAS PRODUCTION Projected 00 05 10 INVESTING FOR THE FUTURE BPs scale of investment in exploration in Indonesia and Australia.
Eight important and production more than $50 billion projects have already come on stream during since 2000 has been guided by our 2004 and 2005, together representing over project focus.
During the next three 25% of incremental production from our new years, we plan to underpin our upstream profit centres.
In our mature areas, decline investment with 24 major new projects, is being actively managed, both through new from deepwater locations in Angola projects coming on stream at existing fields and the Gulf of Mexico to greenfield and also through breakthrough technologies opportunities in Russia and LNG facilities that enable us to recover more oil and gas.
14 Making energy more How can we make energy more lasting?
At current consumption rates, we estimate that the world has a 40-year supply of oil and almost 70 years of natural gas.
The future of fossil fuels will be defined as much by resourcefulness as by resources.
At BP, we apply our scale and consistently reinvest cash in ways that utilize our resourcefulness and sustain supply.
Were confident that our strategy, access and capabilities should see our production of oil and natural gas expanding until the end of the decade and beyond.
BP Annual Review 2005 15 TECHNOLOGICAL VISION At BP, technology is a strategic asset.
Its how we access new hydrocarbon deposits and manage the decline of existing producing assets.
Our investments in technology seismic expertise, innovative drilling techniques, manufacturing efficiency and proprietary products enable us to explore, produce and manufacture efficiently to meet growing demand.
During 2005, BP deployed its newest technique in the search for new reserves: Wide Azimuth Towed Streamer WATS.
This advanced technology uses multiple source boats to send seismic signals at different angles to the seabed, rather than the typical single source.
Our computing centre in Houston then processes the data to create a clearer picture of underlying geology.
WATS is now planned for use on additional fields in the US Gulf of Mexico during 2006.
FINDING MORE OIL AND NATURAL GAS AT LOWER COST THAN OUR COMPETITORS BP Competitors Finding cost $ boe Source: Wood Mackenzie Exploration Strategy and Performance study, September 2005 DELIVERING AMID DISASTER Every day around the world, multiple energy markets and redeployed from Europe to ports on the US Gulf Coast in delivery infrastructures are at work, directing resources fewer than three days.
Our operating US refineries quickly and refined products to meet customer demand.
But what adjusted their gasoline formulations to increase supply happens when fuel supplies are interrupted by one of the made possible through increased flexibility on regional worst hurricane seasons in history?
And in the midst of environmental requirements provided by federal and state very strong demand?
Our Gulf Coast refinery in Texas After the devastation of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, City modified its dock operation, enabling it to distribute nearly 20% of US refining capacity was out of service.
imported cargoes while the manufacturing facilities were Our energy trading function, refining and marketing business out of action.
As a result, BP was able to meet almost and shipping operations co-ordinated BPs global response.
all its contractual demands while also contributing to A flotilla of 12 gasoline and diesel tanker ships was an unprecedented, industry-wide logistical response.
16 Making energy more Value created $ billion
