How can we make energy more efficient?
With scale and reach comes complexity.
Managing this complexity with operational effectiveness requires BP to connect assets to markets efficiently and to put the right supply in the right place at the right time.
While BP is one of the most efficient finders and producers of fossil fuels among the independent oil companies, these elements are only part of the equation.
Look across BPs operations and youll find a set of carefully positioned assets, from fuels for transport and gas for power generation to the strong positions of our aromatics and acetyls business.
The knowledge and relationships within BPs global trading and supply function help us and our customers to manage effectively an energy value chain that has become more global, more dispersed and vastly more complex in recent decades.
BP Annual Review 2005 17 How can we make energy more sustainable?
Its clear that the world will need more energy, not less, in the future.
Economic growth, social progress, population growth and human well-being are all dependent on access to tomorrows energy.
Experts project that up to 40% of the power stations the world will need by 2020 have yet to be built.
In response, BP is investing to offer real alternatives for the generation of power with low-carbon emissions.
In 2005, we announced our plans to invest $8 billion over 10 years in a new business called BP Alternative Energy, which aims to extend significantly our capabilities in solar, wind power, hydrogen power and gas-fired power generation.
Our intention is to build a long-term, material business from cleaner energy the first energy business dedicated to the development and wholesale marketing and trading of low-carbon power from different technologies at this scale.
18 Making energy more SOLAR POWER WIND POWER BP has built its solar manufacturing and marketing The wind power market is growing at 12% a year and global capabilities into a profitable business in a sector that has wind power capacity is projected to quadruple by 2020. been growing at 30% a year.
We manufacture around Today, BP is a small operator, with two wind farms in the 100MW of solar panels worldwide and are in the process Netherlands and another planned for the UK.
However, of doubling that capacity.
We plan to triple sales to 300MW we plan to grow our wind business to more than 450MW by 2008. in 2008, becoming a top-tier wind power operator by 2015.
HYDROGEN POWER GAS-FIRED POWER In the UK and US, we are planning to create the worlds first This technology is vital to low-carbon solutions for the power commercial hydrogen power and carbon storage projects.
BP owns, operates or contracts for 12 gigawatts of gasfuels such as coal, oil or gas are converted into hydrogen and fired power capacity, enough to power over 10 million homes.
The hydrogen is used to generate electricity, Most of these produce electricity with combined cycle gas 2 while the CO is captured and stored in depleted reservoirs turbines and co-generation plants, a more efficient and cleaner 2 to help push out more oil.
The emissions from generating that alternative to coal.
During the next three years, we plan to start power are 90% lower than those from burning the fossil fuel.
construction of two gas-fired co-generation power facilities.
BP ALTERNATIVE ENERGY We are determined to add to the choice of available energies for a world concerned about the environment, and we believe we can do so in a way that will yield robust returns.
Lord Browne, 28 November 2005 BP Annual Review 2005 19 EXTENDING OUR REACH The worlds demand for cleaner-burning natural gas is taking BP in new directions, both geographically and technologically.
At Tangguh, Indonesia, our LNG project began development in 2005 in one of the most remote locations in our portfolio.
The project, on track to deliver LNG to markets in China, South Korea and Mexico in 2008, incorporates innovations in energy efficiency and sophisticated drilling and well technologies.
A major project was approved in 2005 for Wamsutter, Wyoming, the site of one of the largest but most challenging gas fields in the US.
Its geological formation requires simultaneous application of many technologies to produce and process gas.
Together, these technologies not only make resource recovery more efficient but also limit our impact on this environmentally sensitive area.
BP BIODIESEL COMPONENT USAGE IN GERMANY thousand tonnes Projected 220 191 122 04 05 06 ENERGYS NEW ROOTS As the landscape of energy changes, so does the idea that only one type of fuel will be the answer for the future.
At BP, we believe that biofuels will become a complementary addition to conventional transport fuels.
Today, biofuels are produced from food crops but, in the future, crops grown specifically for bioenergy are also likely to be important.
BP has been working for years towards real-world, renewable sources of transport fuels.
Today, for example, we are one of largest users of biodiesel components in the German market and one of the largest blenders of bioethanol into gasoline in the US.
In India, we have recently begun a biodiesel partnership to cultivate and produce fuel from the indigenous jatropha plant.
