How can we make energy morethan words?
Beyond commenting on conditions in the energy marketplace or noting the challenges of rising energy demand and a lower-carbon future, how should an integrated oil company lead?
Putting ideas into action is the true test of a companys character.
At BP, we believe words must be matched by actions.
We were the first oil and gas company to acknowledge publicly that precautionary action in addressing climate change was justified and set our own targets for operational emissions.
And we continue to act on our beliefs by playing a part in the successful development of the countries in which we operate not just extracting resources and paying taxes but investing in education, the environment and local enterprise and providing local access to energy.
Well-chosen words of assurance in an uncertain marketplace may be soothing.
But at BP wed prefer to be judged by the quality of our actions.
24 Making energy more INVESTING LOCALLY BPs commitment to build local capability and develop sustainable enterprises contributed to the successful in-country completion of the Cannonball platform in Trinidad & Tobago in 2005.
We managed our supply chain specifically to develop local competencies and foreign suppliers, and formed joint ventures with national companies to handle local fabrication, construction and engineering.
Beyond the significant investment in local resources made by the Cannonball project, BP is contributing to the development of adult and childhood literacy programmes in Mayaro, a rural fishing area on the countrys south-east coast.
As well as being fundamental to the educational and economic empowerment of individuals, these programmes also represent an important investment in BPs future workforce.
ACCESS EQUALS PROGRESS Concerns about security of supply typically focus on the way developed nations can continue to access and afford fossil fuels.
But access to energy has implications for basic human rights, healthcare, education, enterprise and agriculture worldwide.
In India, where only 31% of households have electricity and just 9% have gas for cooking, BP is in the early stages of developing a business model to market liquefied petroleum gas and a biomass burner, or chulha.
This simple technology has the potential to reach under-served rural areas and to provide access to cleaner energy for cooking at an affordable price.
In South Africa, we have launched a package giving low-income households a safe, affordable and more effective fuel for cooking.
This  offer is now serving 3,000 households that currently rely on more polluting fuels such as paraffin, dried cow dung or coal.
