How can we make energy more secure?
Security of energy supply is really about three things: access, trading and distribution.
For an oil and gas company to assure supply to energy consumers, each of those capabilities must be robust and closely linked.
For BP, these capabilities are the heart of our long-term strategy.
They have enabled us to move first and to serve markets worldwide.
Today, BPs ability to find, develop and produce oil and gas in increasingly challenging locations makes us a leader in our industry.
And when you link BPs advantages efficiency, scale and high-quality assets brought to market through distinctive trading capability, flexible manufacturing and quality retail outlets you have a business platform that offers greater supply stability and opportunity to sustain growth.
10 Making energy more CASPIAN RESOURCEFULNESS In February 2005, oil was produced from the first phase of the massive  full-field development.
Three months later, oil began to flow into the 1,768-kilometre Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan BTC pipeline, marking the culmination of an 11-year project to develop and access the landlocked reserves of the Caspian region.
Filling of the pipeline continued through the remainder of 2005, and by mid-2006 the pipeline is expected to export more than 300,000 barrels of oil a day to world markets.
By 2009, that rate is expected to exceed 1 million barrels of oil a day.
The opening of this new area has the potential to double BPs production in Azerbaijan during 2006, and to account for 20% of our production growth until 2010.
CASPIAN PRODUCTION The opening of the landlocked reserves of the Caspian region has the potential to account for 20% of BPs production growth until 2010.
GAS AND POWER TO NEW MARKETS BP is connecting gas resources with gas markets over greater distances around the globe.
In South Korea, one of the fastest-growing gas markets in the world, BP became the first energy company to supply the Korean private sector when it delivered its first liquefied natural gas LNG cargo to steel company Posco and electricity producer K-Power.
This shipment established supply relationships in advance of production from our newly sanctioned LNG project in Tangguh, Indonesia, scheduled for start-up in 2008.
In South Korea, we went further by investing in K-Power to construct a new 1,074MW gas-fired power station that will use BP-supplied gas to provide electricity for homes and businesses.
The result is a combination of BPs ability to meet growing needs for gas and provide lower-carbon power for our customers.
