47 Remuneration of directors and key management REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS $ million 2005 2004 2003 Total for all directors Emoluments 18 19 17 Ex-gratia payments to executive directors retiring in the year 1 Gains made on the exercise of share options 3 1 Amounts awarded under incentive schemes 8 6 4 Emoluments These amounts comprise fees paid to the non-executive chairman and the non-executive directors and, for executive directors, salary and benefits earned during the relevant financial year, plus bonuses awarded for the year.
Pension contributions Five executive directors participated in a non-contributory pension scheme established for UK staff by a separate trust fund to which contributions are made by BP based on actuarial advice.
One US executive director participated in the US BP Retirement Accumulation Plan during 2005.
Office facilities for former chairmen and deputy chairmen It is customary for the company to make available to former chairmen and deputy chairmen, who were previously employed executives, the use of office and basic secretarial facilities following their retirement.
The cost involved in doing so is not significant.
Further information Full details of individual directors remuneration are given in the directors remuneration report on pages 164-173.
REMUNERATION OF KEY MANAGEMENT $ million 2005 2004 2003 Total for all key management Short-term employee benefits 25 24 20 Post-retirement benefits 4 3 2 Share-based payment 27 20 20 Key management, in addition to executive and non-executive directors, includes certain senior managers who are members of the Group Chief Executives Meeting.
Short-term employee benefits In addition to fees paid to the non-executive chairman and non-executive directors, these amounts comprise, for executive directors and senior managers, salary and benefits earned during the year, plus bonuses awarded for the year.
Post-retirement benefits The amounts represent the estimated cost to the group of providing pensions and other post-retirement benefits to key management in respect of the current year of service measured in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
Share-based payments This is the cost to the group of key managements participation in share-based payment plans, as measured by the fair value of options and shares granted accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payments.
The main plans in which key management have participated are the Executive Directors Incentive Plan EDIP, the Medium Term Performance Plan MTPP and the Long Term Performance Plan LTPP.
For details of these plans refer to Note 45, Share-based payments.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2005 101
