Supplementary information on oil and natural gas quantities BP RESERVES GOVERNANCE RESERVES REPORTING BP manages its hydrocarbon resources in three major categories: Our proved reserves are associated with both concessions tax and prospect inventory, non-proved resources and proved reserves.
When royalty arrangements and production-sharing agreements PSAs.
In a a discovery is made, volumes transfer from the prospect inventory to concession, the consortium of which we are a part is entitled to the the non-proved resource category.
The resources move through reserves that can be produced over the licence period, which may be various non-proved resource sub-categories as their technical and the life of the field.
In a PSA, we are entitled to recover volumes that commercial maturity increases through appraisal activity.
equate to costs incurred to develop and produce the reserves and an Resources in a field will only be categorized as proved reserves agreed share of the remaining volumes or the economic equivalent.
when all the criteria for attribution of proved status have been met, As part of our entitlement is driven by the monetary amount of costs including an internally imposed requirement for project sanction, or to be recovered, price fluctuations will have an impact on both for sanction expected within six months and, for additional reserves production volumes and reserves.
Twenty per cent of our proved in existing fields, the requirement that the reserves be included in reserves are associated with PSAs.
The main countries in which we the business plan and scheduled for development within three years.
operate under PSA arrangements are Algeria, Angola, Azerbaijan, Internal approval and final investment decision are what we refer to Egypt, Indonesia and Vietnam.
As a UK-registered company, BP estimates its proved reserves At the point of sanction, all booked reserves will be categorized under UK accounting rules for oil and gas companies contained in the as proved undeveloped PUD.
Volumes will subsequently be Statement of Recommended Practice, Accounting for Oil and Gas recategorized from PUD to proved developed PD as a consequence Exploration, Development, Production and Decommissioning of development activity.
The first PD bookings will occur at the point Activities UK SORP.
In estimating its reserves under UK SORP, of first oil or gas production.
Major development projects typically BP uses long-term planning prices: these are the long-term price take one to four years from the time of initial booking to the start of assumptions on which the group makes decisions to invest in the production.
Adjustments may be made to booked reserves owing development of a field.
Using planning prices for estimating proved to production, reservoir performance, commercial factors, acquisition reserves removes the impact of the volatility inherent in using yearand divestment activity and additional reservoir development activity.
end spot prices on our reserve base and on cash flow expectations BP has an internal process to control the quality of reserve over the long term.
The groups planning prices for estimating reserves bookings that forms part of a holistic and integrated system of internal through the end of 2005 were $25 per barrel for oil and $4.00 per control.
BPs process to manage reserve bookings has been centrally mmBtu for natural gas.
controlled for over 15 years and it currently has several key elements.
In determining reasonable certainty for UK SORP purposes, The first element is the accountabilities of certain officers of the BP applies a number of additional internally imposed assessment company, which ensure that there is clear responsibility for review principles, such as the requirement for internal approval and final and, where appropriate, endorsement of changes to reserves investment decision which we refer to as project sanction, or for bookings: that the review is independent of the operating business such project sanction within six months and, for additional reserves unit for the integrity and accuracy of the reserve estimates: and that in existing fields, the requirement that the reserves be included in the there are effective controls in the reserve approval process and business plan and scheduled for development within three years.
verification that the groups reserve estimates and the related financial On the basis of UK SORP, our total proved reserves for impacts are reported in a timely manner.
subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities at the end of 2005 were The second element is the capital allocation processes whereby 18,271mmboe, representing a proved reserve replacement ratio RRR delegated authority is exercised to commit to capital projects that are before acquisitions and divestments of 100%, versus 110% in 2004. consistent with the delivery of the groups business plan.
A formal Our principal equity-accounted entity is TNK-BP.
For subsidiaries only, process exists to review that both technical and commercial criteria the RRR is 71% and, for equity-accounted entities only, the RRR is are met prior to the commitment of capital to projects.
The proved reserve replacement ratio also known as the The third element is internal audit, whose role includes production replacement ratio is the extent to which production is systematically examining the effectiveness of the groups financial replaced by proved reserve additions.
This ratio is expressed in oil controls designed to assure the reliability of reporting and equivalent terms and includes changes resulting from revisions to safeguarding of assets and examining the groups compliance with previous estimates, improved recovery, extensions, discoveries and laws, regulations and internal standards.
other additions, excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestments.
The fourth element is a quarterly due diligence review, which is Natural gas is converted to oil equivalent at 5.8 billion cubic feet bcf separate and independent from the operating business units, of equals 1 million barrels.
By their nature, there is always some risk reserves associated with properties where technical, operational or involved in the ultimate development and production of reserves, commercial issues have arisen.
including but not limited to final regulatory approval, the installation of The fifth element is the established criteria whereby reserves above new or additional infrastructure as well as changes in oil and gas certain thresholds require central authorization.
Furthermore, the prices and the continued availability of additional development capital.
volumes booked under these authorization levels are reviewed on a The estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves on this basis are periodic basis.
The frequency of review is determined according to shown on pages 133-134. field size and ensures that more than 80% of the BP reserves base The US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC rules undergoes central review every two years and more than 90% is for estimating reserves are different in certain respects from reviewed every four years.
SORP: in particular, the SEC requires the use of year-end prices.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2005 131 Supplementary information on oil and natural gas quantities continued At 31 December 2005, the marker price for Brent crude was $58.21 basis, the net impact of these changes, comprising some reductions per barrel and for Henry Hub gas it was $9.52 per mmBtu.
and some additions, is a decrease of 378mmboe compared with Applying higher year-end prices to reserve estimates and assuming our reserves under UK SORP, resulting in total proved reserves of they apply to the end-of-field life have the effect of increasing proved 17,893mmboe including equity-accounted entities.
Excluding reserves associated with concessions tax and royalty arrangements equity-accounted entities, our proved reserves on an SEC basis were for which additional development opportunities become economic at 14,023mmboe.
higher prices or where higher prices make it more economic to extend The total net movement in subsidiaries and equity-accounted the life of a field.
On the other hand, applying higher year-end prices to entities comprises a decrease of 397mmboe as a result of using the reserves in fields subject to PSAs has the effect of decreasing proved year-end price, offset by a net increase of 19mmboe in respect of fuel reserves from those fields because higher prices result in lower gas and technology interpretations.
Following SEC rules for reserves, our total proved reserves for The companys proved reserves estimates on an SEC basis for subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities at the end of 2005 were the year ended 31 December 2005 reflect year-end prices and some 17,893mmboe, representing a proved reserve replacement ratio RRR adjustments that have been made vis--vis individual asset reserve before acquisitions and divestments of 95% versus 89% in 2004.
For estimates based on different applications of certain SEC subsidiaries only, the RRR is 68% and, for equity-accounted entities interpretations of SEC regulations relating to the use of technology only, the RRR is 151%.
mainly seismic to estimate reserves in the reservoir away from The estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves prepared on an wellbores and the reporting of fuel gas i. e. gas used for fuel in SEC basis are shown on pages 135-136. operations on the lease within proved reserves.
On an aggregate 132 Making energy more
