Notes on financial statements 1 Resegmentation With effect from 1 January 2005, there have been the following changes to the business segments reported by the group: a The Mardi Gras pipeline system in the Gulf of Mexico has been transferred from Exploration and Production to Refining and Marketing.
b The aromatics and acetyls operations and the petrochemicals assets that are integrated with our Gelsenkirchen refinery in Germany have been transferred from the former Petrochemicals segment to Refining and Marketing.
c The olefins and derivatives operations have been transferred from the former Petrochemicals segment to the Olefins and Derivatives business.
The legacy historical results of other petrochemicals assets that had been divested during 2004 and 2003 are included within Other businesses and corporate.
d The Grangemouth and Lavra refineries have been transferred from Refining and Marketing to the Olefins and Derivatives business to maintain existing operating synergies with the co-located olefins and derivatives operations.
e A small US operation, the Hobbs fractionator, which supplies petrochemicals feedstock, has been transferred from Gas, Power and Renewables to the Olefins and Derivatives business.
The Olefins and Derivatives business is reported within Other businesses and corporate.
This reorganization was a precursor to seeking to divest the Olefins and Derivatives business.
As indicated in Note 4, Discontinued operations, during 2005 we divested Innovene and show its activities as discontinued operations in these accounts.
Innovene represented the majority of the Olefins and Derivatives business.
Comparative financial and operating information is shown after resegmentation, the change in accounting policy and the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
2 Change in accounting policy The groups accounting policy has been to present oil, natural gas and power forward sales and purchases gross in the income statement.
However, during 2005, a review was undertaken into the presentation of these commodity derivative transactions and related activity.
These transactions have previously been presented gross in the income statement, although in certain areas of the groups activity, physical delivery can be optional and avoided by buying or selling offsetting contracts through a market mechanism.
This led to the conclusion that it was more appropriate to represent transactions in these areas net rather than gross.
These sale and purchase transactions are now offset and reported net in sales and other operating revenues.
Other derivative contracts where physical delivery is the norm continue to be reported gross.
This change in accounting policy, while reducing sales and other operating revenues and purchases, has no impact on reported profit, cash flows and the balance sheet.
Sales and other operating revenues and purchases for prior periods have been restated as set out below.
The impact of the change in accounting policy on sales and other operating revenues and purchases for the year ended 31 December 2005 was approximately $105,000 million.
