Parent company financial statements of BP p. l. c. Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the parent company financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required: To select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: To make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: To state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: To prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors confirm that they have complied with these requirements, and having a reasonable expectation that the company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
142 Making energy more Independent auditors report We have audited the parent company financial statements of BP p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the balance sheet, cash flow statement, statement of total recognized gains and losses, accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 11.
These parent company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the consolidated financial statements of BP p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2005.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report or for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice as set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the parent company financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises the United States accounting principles, the supplementary information on oil and natural gas quantities, the other financial and operating data, the Directors Report, the Chairmans letter, and Governance: board performance report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations that we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
OPINION In our opinion: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2005: and the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor London 6 February 2006 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2005 143 Parent company financial statements of BP p. l. c. continued Accounting policies At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense ACCOUNTING STANDARDS is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has These accounts are prepared in accordance with applicable UK expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or accounting standards.
In preparing the financial statements for the otherwise of non-market conditions and number of equity instruments current year, the company has adopted Financial Reporting Standards that will ultimately vest or in the case of an instrument subject to a No.
21 Events after the market condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
The Balance Sheet Date FRS 21, No.
23 movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates, No.
24 Financial date is recognized in the income statement, with a corresponding Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies, No.
Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, No.
26 Financial Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new Instruments: Measurement, No.
28 award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the Corresponding Amounts.
cost based on the original award terms continues to be recognized The adoption of FRS 20 has resulted in changes in accounting over the original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognized policy for share-based payment transactions and the adoption of over the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair FRS 21 has resulted in changes in accounting policy for dividends.
value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair FRS 20 requires that the fair value of options and shares awarded to value of the original award and the fair value of the modified award, employees is charged to the income statement over the vesting both as measured on the date of the modification.
Under UK GAAP, no charge was made in respect of share recognized if this difference is negative.
Dividends proposed or declared on equity instruments after Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had the balance sheet date are no longer recognized as a liability at the vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognized in balance sheet date.
These changes in accounting policy have resulted the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
Any in a prior year adjustment.
Shareholders interest at 1 January 2004 compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation has been increased by $1,750 million and profit for the years ended or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair 31 December 2004 and 2003 reduced by $64 million and $47 million value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
The statement of total recognized gains and losses includes a prior year adjustment representing deferred taxation on Cash-settled transactions The cost of cash-settled transactions is share-based payments.
Profit for the current year has been reduced measured at fair value using an appropriate option valuation model.
by approximately $86 million as a result of the changes in Fair value is established initially at the grant date and at each accounting policy.
balance sheet date thereafter until the awards are settled.
During the vesting period, a liability is recognized representing the product of the ACCOUNTING CONVENTION fair value of the award and the portion of the vesting period expired as The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention.
at the balance sheet date.
From the end of the vesting period until settlement, the liability represents the full fair value of the award as at FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSACTIONS the balance sheet date.
Changes in the carrying amount for the Foreign currency transactions are booked in the functional currency at liability are recognized in profit or loss for the period.
the exchange rate ruling on the date of transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated into the functional PENSIONS AND OTHER POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS currency at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
For defined benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit Exchange differences are included in profit for the year.
schemes, scheme assets are measured at fair value and scheme liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit INVESTMENTS method and discounted at an interest rate equivalent to the current Investments in subsidiary and associated undertakings are held at rate of return on a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent currency cost.
The company assesses investments for impairment whenever and term to the scheme liabilities.
Full actuarial valuations are obtained events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of at least every three years and are updated at each balance sheet date.
an investment may not be recoverable.
If any such indication of The resulting surplus or deficit, net of taxation thereon, is presented impairment exists, the company makes an estimate of its recoverable separately above the total for net assets on the face of the balance amount.
Where the carrying amount of an investment exceeds its sheet.
recoverable amount, the investment is considered impaired and is The service cost of providing pension and other post-retirement written down to its recoverable amount.
benefits to employees for the year is charged to the income statement.
The cost of making improvements to pension and other SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS post-retirement benefits is recognized in the income statement on a Equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions straight-line basis over the period during which the increase in with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date benefits vests.
To the extent that the improvements in benefits vest at which they are granted and is recognized as an expense over the immediately, the cost is recognized immediately.
vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant A charge representing the unwinding of the discount on the employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is scheme liabilities during the year is included within other finance determined by using an appropriate valuation model.
settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the company market conditions.
No expense is recognized for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
144 Making energy more Accounting policies continued A credit representing the expected return on the scheme assets during the year is included within other finance expense.
This credit is based on the market value of the scheme assets and expected rates of return at the beginning of the year.
Actuarial gains and losses may result from differences between the expected return and the actual return on scheme assets: differences between the actuarial assumptions underlying the scheme liabilities and actual experience during the year: or changes in the actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of the scheme liabilities.
Actuarial gains and losses, and taxation thereon, are recognized in the statement of total recognized gains and losses.
DEFERRED TAXATION Deferred tax is recognized in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax in the future.
In particular: Provision is made for tax on gains arising from the disposal of fixed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is a binding agreement to dispose of the replacement assets concerned.
However, no provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to tax only where the replacement assets are sold.
Provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable.
Deferred tax assets are recognized only to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
USE OF ESTIMATES The preparation of accounts in conformity with generally accepted accounting practice requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual outcomes could differ from these estimates.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2005 145
