How can we make energy more diverse?
A more diverse energy future is taking shape.
It demands the kind of leadership that asks not just How many places can we drill?
but How broadly can we think?
For years, BP has understood that the effective choices we make today, both large and small, expand the options well have tomorrow.
We moved early to invest in natural gas, which now represents 36% of our global production and is the cleanest-burning fossil fuel available.
Today, BP has a world-class gas business, with production underpinned by a significant investment in pipelines, LNG facilities, LNG ships, regasification facilities and marketing and trading capabilities.
Beyond natural gas, our research into biofuels those made from crop-based biomass materials has convinced us of their capability to complement fossil fuels in certain transportation markets and also their potential to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
BP Annual Review 2005 21 How can we make energy more reliable?
In an energy marketplace driven by demand, the refineries that we all depend on to turn crude oil into fuels and chemicals have an increasing responsibility to demonstrate their reliability anticipating and meeting customer demand safely, efficiently and with integrity.
To offer reliable supply to customers even in the most demanding conditions, BP has made a significant investment in its manufacturing and supply operations in recent years.
Were already handling a wider range of crude oils than ever and growing our capability to meet new, more stringent, fuel specifications.
We plan to invest several billion dollars over the next five years to enhance our capability to create distinctive BP products.
By operating a flexible and geographically advantaged manufacturing system, BP can consistently match sources of supply with products that meet consumer demand.
This level of integration allows us to optimize our own manufacturing capacity.
Just as important, it helps us deliver the right products to the right place at the right time.
22 Making energy more APPLYING BEST PRACTICES SAFETY As part of our approach to improve continuously, BP On 23 March 2005, an explosion and fire at our Texas City has been putting in a system to adopt the principles of refinery in the US claimed the lives of 15 workers and a high-reliability organization within our refining operations.
BP has set aside $700 million to Across the group, we have also been implementing a new compensate victims and has reached settlements with integrity management standard.
Developed by a team of many of the workers who were injured and most family operations, maintenance and engineering experts from members of the workers who died.
We have learned much across BP, our new standard combines and improves a from the actions and failures identified in Texas City, and are number of existing safety processes and technical practices.
now applying that knowledge widely across BPs operations.
CONTINUED INVESTMENT FOR THE FUTURE OF REFINING $ billion Base integrity Upgrading 1.4 0.8 03 - 05 06 - 08 average average BP Annual Review 2005 23
