Accounting policies AUTHORIZATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND STATEMENT OF consent of the venturers.
A jointly controlled entity is a joint venture COMPLIANCE WITH INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS that involves the establishment of a company, partnership or other The financial statements of the BP group for the year ended entity to engage in economic activity that the group jointly controls 31 December 2005 were authorized for issue by the results with its fellow venturers.
committee on behalf of the board of directors on 6 February 2006 and The results, assets and liabilities of a jointly controlled entity are the balance sheet was signed on the boards behalf by Peter incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method Sutherland and The Lord Browne of Madingley.
BP p. l. c. is a public of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment in a jointly limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
controlled entity is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus postThe companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock acquisition changes in the groups share of net assets of the jointly Exchange.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared controlled entity, less distributions received and less any impairment in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs in value of the investment.
The group income statement reflects the as adopted by the European Union EU and in accordance with the groups share of the results after tax of the jointly controlled entity.
provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
The consolidated financial The group statement of recognized income and expense reflects the statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as groups share of any income and expense recognized by the jointly issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The controlled entity outside profit and loss.
principal accounting policies adopted by the group are set out below.
Financial statements of jointly controlled entities are prepared for the same reporting year as the group.
Where necessary, adjustments BASIS OF PREPARATION are made to those financial statements to bring the accounting This is the first year in which the group has prepared its financial policies used into line with those of the group.
statements under IFRSs and the comparative financial information Unrealized gains on transactions between the group and its jointly has been restated from UK generally accepted accounting practice controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest UK GAAP to comply with IFRSs.
Reconciliations to IFRSs from the in the jointly controlled entities.
Unrealized losses are also eliminated previously published UK GAAP primary financial statements are unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the shown in Note 50.
The accounting policies that follow set out those asset transferred.
policies that apply in preparing the consolidated financial statements The group ceases to use the equity method of accounting on the for the year ended 31 December 2005. date from which it no longer has joint control over, or significant The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars influence in the joint venture, or when the interest becomes held and all values are rounded to the nearest million dollars $ million, for sale.
Certain of the groups activities, particularly in the Exploration and Production segment, are conducted through joint ventures where the BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION venturers have a direct ownership interest in and jointly control the The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements assets of the venture.
The income, expenses, assets and liabilities of BP p. l. c. and the entities it controls its subsidiaries drawn up to of these jointly controlled assets are included in the consolidated 31 December each year.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial statements in proportion to the groups interest.
financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct and indirect INTERESTS IN ASSOCIATES ownership of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible An associate is an entity over which the group is in a position to potential voting rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
exercise significant influence through participation in the financial Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being and operating policy decisions of the investee, but which is not a the date on which the group obtains control, and continue to be subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity.
consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
The financial The results, assets and liabilities of an associate are incorporated statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
Under the equity method, the investment in an associate is carried in All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealized the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the groups profits arising from intragroup transactions, have been eliminated in share of net assets of the associate, less distributions received and full.
Unrealized losses are eliminated unless the transaction provides less any impairment in value of the investment.
The group income evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
statement reflects the groups share of the results after tax of the Minority interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net associate.
The group statement of recognized income and expense assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the group and is presented reflects the groups share of any income and expense recognized by separately within equity in the consolidated balance sheet.
the associate outside profit and loss.
The financial statements of associates are prepared for the same INTERESTS IN JOINT VENTURES reporting year as the group.
Where necessary, adjustments are made A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more to those financial statements to bring the accounting policies used parties venturers undertake an economic activity that is subject to into line with those of the group.
Joint control exists only when the strategic financial and Unrealized gains on transactions between the group and its operating decisions relating to the activity require the unanimous associates are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in the 30 Making energy more associates.
Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless the transaction As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
each of the cash-generating units expected to benefit from the The group ceases to use the equity method of accounting on the combinations synergies.
For this purpose, cash-generating units are date from which it no longer has significant influence in the associate set at one level below a business segment.
Impairment is determined or when the interest becomes held for sale.
by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment In individual companies, transactions in foreign currencies are initially loss is recognized.
recorded in the functional currency by applying the rate of exchange Goodwill arising on business combinations prior to 1 January 2003 ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities is stated at the previous UK GAAP carrying amount.
denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional Goodwill may also arise upon investments in jointly controlled currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any entities and associates, being the surplus of the cost of investment resulting exchange differences are included in the income statement.
over the groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of Such goodwill is recorded within investments in jointly controlled historical cost in a foreign currency are translated into the functional entities and associates, and any impairment of the goodwill is included currency using the rates of exchange as at the dates of the initial within the income from jointly controlled entities and associates.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE using the rate of exchange at the date the fair value was determined.
Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale In the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less of non-US dollar functional currency subsidiaries, jointly controlled costs to sell.
entities and associates, including related goodwill, are translated into Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held US dollars at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered through a sale The results and cash flows of non-US dollar functional currency transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates are translated regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset into US dollars using average rates of exchange.
Exchange or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present adjustments arising when the opening net assets and the profits for condition.
Management must be committed to the sale, which should the year retained by non-US dollar functional currency subsidiaries, be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one jointly controlled entities and associates are translated into US dollars year from the date of classification.
are taken to a separate component of equity and reported in the Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets once classified statement of recognized income and expense.
Exchange gains and as held for sale are not depreciated.
losses arising on long-term foreign currency borrowings used to finance the groups non-US dollar investments are also taken to equity.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS On disposal of a non-US dollar functional currency subsidiary, jointly Intangible assets are stated at cost, less accumulated amortization controlled entity or associate, the deferred cumulative amount and accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets include recognized in equity relating to that particular non-US dollar operation expenditure on the exploration for and evaluation of oil and natural is recognized in the income statement.
gas resources, computer software, patents, licences, trademarks and product development costs.
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND GOODWILL Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are carried Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition initially at cost.
The initial cost is the aggregate amount paid and the method of accounting.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
cash paid and the fair value of other assets given, equity instruments An intangible asset acquired as part of a business combination is issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, recognized separately from goodwill if the asset is separable or arises plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The acquired from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value can be identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at measured reliably.
their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of Product development costs are capitalized as intangible assets acquisition over the net fair value of the identifiable assets acquired is when a project has obtained internal sanction and the future recognized as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition recoverability of such costs can reasonably be regarded as assured.
below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. Intangible assets with a finite life are amortized on a straight-line discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the basis over their expected useful lives.
For patents, licences and period of acquisition.
Where the group does not acquire 100% trademarks, expected useful life is the lower of the duration of the ownership of the acquired company, the interest of minority legal agreement and economic useful life, which can range from shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of three to 15 years.
Computer software costs have a useful life of the assets and liabilities recognized.
Subsequently, any losses three to five years.
applicable to the minority shareholders in excess of the minority The expected useful lives of the assets are reviewed on an annual interest are allocated against the interests of the parent.
basis and, if necessary, changes in useful lives are accounted for Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost being the prospectively.
excess of the cost of the business combination over the acquirers The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured value may not be recoverable.
In addition, the carrying value of at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed capitalized product development expenditure is reviewed for for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in impairment annually before being brought into use.
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2005 31 OIL AND NATURAL GAS EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURE group, the expenditure is capitalized.
Inspection costs associated with Oil and natural gas exploration and development expenditure is major maintenance programmes are capitalized and amortized over accounted for using the successful efforts method of accounting.
the period to the next inspection.
Overhaul costs for major maintenance programmes are expensed as incurred.
All other Licence and property acquisition costs Exploration and property maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
leasehold acquisition costs are capitalized within intangible fixed Oil and natural gas properties are depreciated using a unit-ofassets and amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated production method.
The cost of producing wells is amortized over period of exploration.
Each property is reviewed on an annual basis proved developed reserves.
Licence acquisition, decommissioning to confirm that drilling activity is planned and it is not impaired.
If no and field development costs are amortized over total proved reserves.
future activity is planned, the remaining balance of the licence and The unit-of-production rate for the amortization of field development property acquisition costs is written off.
Upon determination of costs takes into account expenditures incurred to date, together with economically recoverable reserves proved reserves or commercial sanctioned future development expenditure.
reserves, amortization ceases and the remaining costs are Other property, plant and equipment is depreciated on a straightaggregated with exploration expenditure and held on a field-by-field line basis over its expected useful life.
basis as proved properties awaiting approval within other intangible The useful lives of the groups other property, plant and equipment assets.
When development is approved internally, the relevant are as follows: expenditure is transferred to property, plant and equipment.
Land improvements 15 to 25 years Buildings 20 to 40 years Exploration expenditure Geological and geophysical exploration costs Refineries 20 to 30 years are charged against income as incurred.
Costs directly associated Petrochemicals plants 20 years with an exploration well are capitalized as an intangible asset until the Pipelines Unit-of-throughput drilling of the well is complete and the results have been evaluated.
10 to 50 years These costs include employee remuneration, materials and fuel Service stations 15 years used, rig costs, delay rentals and payments made to contractors.
If Office equipment 3 to 7 years hydrocarbons are not found, the exploration expenditure is written Fixtures and fittings 5 to 15 years off as a dry hole.
If hydrocarbons are found and, subject to further The expected useful lives of property, plant and equipment are appraisal activity, which may include the drilling of further wells reviewed on an annual basis and, if necessary, changes in useful lives exploration or exploratory-type stratigraphic test wells, are likely to be are accounted for prospectively.
capable of commercial development, the costs continue to be carried The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed for as an asset.
All such carried costs are subject to technical, commercial impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate and management review at least once a year to confirm the continued the carrying value may not be recoverable.
intent to develop or otherwise extract value from the discovery.
When An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized upon this is no longer the case, the costs are written off.
When proved disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise reserves of oil and natural gas are determined and development is from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on sanctioned, the relevant expenditure is transferred to property, derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the plant and equipment.
net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item is included in the income statement in the period the item is derecognized.
Development expenditure Expenditure on the construction, installation or completion of infrastructure facilities such as platforms, pipelines IMPAIRMENT OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND PROPERTY, PLANT and the drilling of development wells, including unsuccessful AND EQUIPMENT development or delineation wells, is capitalized within property, The group assesses assets or groups of assets for impairment plant and equipment.
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable.
Individual assets PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT are grouped for impairment assessment purposes at the lowest level Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, less accumulated at which there are identifiable cash flows that are largely independent depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
of the cash flows of other groups of assets.
If any such indication of The initial cost of an asset comprises its purchase price or impairment exists or when annual impairment testing for an asset construction cost, any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset group is required, the group makes an estimate of its recoverable into operation, the initial estimate of any decommissioning obligation, amount.
An asset groups recoverable amount is the higher of its fair if any, and, for qualifying assets, borrowing costs.
The purchase price value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Where the carrying or construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value amount of an asset group exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
The capitalized group is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable value of a finance lease is also included within property, plant amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows and equipment.
are adjusted for the risks specific to the asset group and are Exchanges of assets are measured at the fair value of the asset discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that given up unless the exchange transaction lacks commercial substance reflects current market assessments of the time value of money.
or the fair value of neither the asset received nor the asset given up An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is reliably measurable.
is any indication that previously recognized impairment losses may no Expenditure on major maintenance refits or repairs comprises the longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the cost of replacement assets or parts of assets, inspection costs and recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognized impairment overhaul costs.
Where an asset or part of an asset that was separately loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used depreciated and is now written off is replaced and it is probable that to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the impairment loss was recognized.
If that is the case, the carrying 32 Making energy more amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That recognition, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have value, with gains or losses being recognized as a separate component been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been of equity until the investment is derecognized or until the investment recognized for the asset in prior years.
Such reversal is recognized in is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or profit or loss.
After such a reversal, the depreciation charge is adjusted loss previously reported in equity is included in the income statement.
in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
Fair values The fair value of quoted investments is determined by reference to bid prices at the close of business on the balance sheet FINANCIAL ASSETS date.
Where there is no active market, fair value is determined using Financial assets are classified as financial assets at fair value through valuation techniques.
These include using recent arms-length market profit or loss: loans and receivables: held-to-maturity investments: or transactions: reference to the current market value of another as available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
Financial assets instrument which is substantially the same: discounted cash flow include cash and cash equivalents: trade receivables: other analysis: and pricing models.
Otherwise assets are carried at cost.
receivables: loans: other investments: and derivative financial instruments.
The group determines the classification of its financial IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS assets at initial recognition.
When financial assets are recognized The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial initially, they are measured at fair value, normally being the transaction asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
price plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
As explained in Assets carried at amortized cost If there is objective evidence that an Note 50, the group has not restated comparative amounts, on first impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortized cost has applying IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, as between the assets carrying amount and the present value of permitted in IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original Reporting Standards.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced, All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are with the amount of the loss recognized in administration costs.
recognized on the trade date, being the date that the group commits If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss to purchase or sell the asset.
Regular way transactions require decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event delivery of assets within the timeframe generally established by occurring after the impairment was recognized, the previously regulation or convention in the marketplace.
The subsequent recognized impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an measurement of financial assets depends on their classification, impairment loss is recognized in the income statement, to the extent as follows: that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortized cost at the reversal date.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets classified as held for trading and other assets designated as such on Assets carried at cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment inception are included in this category.
Financial assets are classified loss on an unquoted equity instrument that is not carried at fair value as held for trading if they are acquired for sale in the short term.
because its fair value cannot be reliably measured, or on a derivative Derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are asset that is linked to and must be settled by delivery of such an designated as hedging instruments.
Assets are carried on the unquoted equity instrument, has been incurred, the amount of the loss balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognized in the is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount income statement.
and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not Available-for-sale financial assets If an available-for-sale asset is quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or net of any principal payment and amortization and its fair value is available-for-sale.
Such assets are carried at amortized cost using the transferred from equity to the income statement.
effective interest method if the time value of money is significant.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt instruments are taken Gains and losses are recognized in income when the loans and through the income statement if the increase in fair value of the receivables are derecognized or impaired, as well as through the instrument can be objectively related to an event occurring after the amortization process.
impairment loss was recognized in profit or loss.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not recognized Held-to-maturity investments Non-derivative financial assets with fixed in the income statement.
or determinable payments and fixed maturity are classified as held-tomaturity when the group has the positive intention and ability to hold INVENTORIES to maturity.
Held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortized cost Inventories, other than inventory held for trading purposes, are stated using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognized at the lower of cost and net realizable value.
Cost is determined by in income when the investments are derecognized or impaired, as the first-in first-out method and comprises direct purchase costs, well as through the amortization process.
Investments intended to be cost of production, transportation and manufacturing expenses.
held for an undefined period are not included in this classification.
Inventories held for trading purposes are stated at fair value less costs to sell and any changes in net realizable value are recognized Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are in the income statement.
those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or Supplies are valued at cost to the group mainly using the average are not classified in any of the three preceding categories.
After initial method or net realizable value, whichever is the lower.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2005 33 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Where the group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows Trade and other receivables are carried at the original invoice amount, from an asset and has neither transferred nor retained substantially less allowances made for doubtful receivables.
Where the time value all the risks and rewards of the asset nor transferred control of the of money is material, receivables are carried at amortized cost.
asset, the asset is recognized to the extent of the groups continuing Provision is made when there is objective evidence that the group will involvement in the asset.
Continuing involvement that takes the form be unable to recover balances in full.
Balances are written off when of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the lower the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the group could be required to repay.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Where continuing involvement takes the form of a written and or Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand: current balances purchased option including a cash-settled option or similar provision with banks and similar institutions: and short-term highly liquid on the transferred asset, the extent of the groups continuing investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash, involvement is the amount of the transferred asset that the group may are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have a maturity repurchase, except that in the case of a written put option including a of three months or less from the date of acquisition.
cash-settled option or similar provision on an asset measured at fair For the purpose of the group cash flow statement, cash and cash value, the extent of the groups continuing involvement is limited to equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, the lower of the fair value of the transferred asset and the option net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Financial liabilities A financial liability is derecognized when the Trade and other payables are carried at payment or settlement obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Where the time value of money is material, payables Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the are carried at amortized cost.
same lender on substantially different terms or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability All loans and borrowings are initially recognized at cost, being the and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the fair value of the proceeds received net of issue costs associated with respective carrying amounts, together with any costs or fees incurred the borrowing.
are recognized in profit or loss.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS method.
Amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any issue The group uses derivative financial instruments to manage certain costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or rates and commodity prices.
From 1 January 2005, such derivative cancellation of liabilities are recognized respectively in interest and financial instruments are initially recognized at fair value on the date other revenues and other finance expense.
on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the LEASES fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Finance leases, which transfer to the group substantially all the Contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are in cash or another financial instrument, or by exchanging financial capitalized at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased instruments, as if the contracts were financial instruments, with the property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease exception of contracts that were entered into and continue to be held payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of a non-financial item in charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant accordance with the groups expected purchase, sale or usage rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance requirements, are financial instruments.
charges are charged directly against income.
For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which hedge Capitalized leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the accounting is desired, the hedging relationship is documented at estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
This documentation identifies the hedging instrument, Operating lease payments are recognized as an expense in the the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
and how effectiveness will be measured throughout its duration.
Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective.
DERECOGNITION OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: Financial assets A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a Fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the fair financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets is value of a recognized asset or liability: derecognized where: Cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with The group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, a recognized asset or liability or a highly probable forecast but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material transaction, including intra-group transactions: or delay to a third party under a pass-through arrangement: or Hedges of the net investment in a foreign entity.
The group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of all other asset and either a has transferred substantially all the risks and derivatives, which are classified as held for trading, are taken to the rewards of the asset or b has neither transferred nor retained income statement.
These may arise from derivatives for which hedge substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset but has accounting is not applied because they are either not designated or transferred control of the asset.
not effective as hedging instruments or from derivatives that are acquired for trading purposes.
34 Making energy more The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash hedging relationship, as follows: flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to Fair value hedges For fair value hedges, the carrying amount of the the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision hedged item is adjusted for gains and losses attributable to the risk due to the passage of time is recognized as other finance expense.
being hedged: the derivative is remeasured at fair value and gains and Any change in the amount recognized for environmental and litigation losses from both are taken to profit or loss.
For hedged items carried and other provisions arising through changes in discount rates is at amortized cost, the adjustment is amortized through the income included within other finance expense.
statement such that it is fully amortized by maturity.
When an A contingent liability is disclosed where the existence of an unrecognized firm commitment is designated as a hedged item, obligation will only be confirmed by future events or where the this gives rise to an asset or liability in the balance sheet, representing amount of the obligation cannot be measured with reasonable the cumulative change in the fair value of the firm commitment reliability.
Contingent assets are not recognized, but are disclosed attributable to the hedged risk.
where an inflow of economic benefits is probable.
The group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or the group revokes Environmental expenditures that relate to current or future revenues the designation.
are expensed or capitalized as appropriate.
Expenditures that relate to an existing condition caused by past operations and do not contribute Cash flow hedges For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the to current or future earnings are expensed.
gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognized directly in equity, Liabilities for environmental costs are recognized when while the ineffective portion is recognized in profit or loss.
Amounts environmental assessments or clean-ups are probable and the taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when the associated costs can be reasonably estimated.
Generally, the timing hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast of these provisions coincides with the commitment to a formal plan sale or purchase occurs.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a nonof action or, if earlier, on divestment or on closure of inactive sites.
financial asset or liability, the amounts taken to equity are transferred The amount recognized is the best estimate of the expenditure to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
Where the liability will not be settled for a number of years, If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised the amount recognized is the present value of the estimated without replacement or rollover, the hedged transaction ceases to be future expenditure.
highly probable, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognized in equity remain in equity until the forecast DECOMMISSIONING transaction occurs and are transferred to the income statement or to Liabilities for decommissioning costs are recognized when the group the initial carrying amount of a non-financial asset or liability as above.
has an obligation to dismantle and remove a facility or an item of plant If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts and to restore the site on which it is located, and when a reasonable previously recognized in equity are transferred to profit or loss.
estimate of that liability can be made.
Where an obligation exists for a new facility, such as oil and natural gas production or transportation Hedges of the net investment in a foreign entity For hedges of the facilities, this will be on construction or installation.
An obligation for net investment in a foreign entity, the effective portion of the gain or decommissioning may also crystallize during the period of operation loss on the hedging instrument is recognized directly in equity, while of a facility through a change in legislation or through a decision to the ineffective portion is recognized in profit or loss.
The amount recognized is the present value of Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement the estimated future expenditure determined in accordance with local when the foreign entity is sold.
A corresponding item of property, plant and equipment of an Embedded derivatives Derivatives embedded in other financial amount equivalent to the provision is also created.
This is instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives subsequently depreciated as part of the capital costs of the facility when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those or item of plant.
of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value.
Any change in the present value of the estimated expenditure is Contracts are assessed for embedded derivatives when the group reflected as an adjustment to the provision and the corresponding becomes a party to them, including at the date of a business property, plant and equipment.
These embedded derivatives are measured at fair value at each period end.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair EMPLOYEE BENEFITS value are taken directly to net profit or loss for the period.
Wages, salaries, bonuses, social security contributions, paid annual leave and sick leave are accrued in the period in which the associated PROVISIONS services are rendered by employees of the group.
Deferred bonus Provisions are recognized when the group has a present obligation arrangements that have a vesting date more than 12 months after the legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an period end are valued on an actuarial basis using the projected unit outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required credit method and amortized on a straight-line basis over the service to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the period until the award vests.
The accounting policy for pensions and amount of the obligation.
Where the group expects some or all of a other post-retirement benefits is described below.
provision to be reimbursed, for example, under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognized as a separate asset, but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in the income statement net of any BP Annual Report and Accounts 2005 35 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS actuarial assumptions and the resultant gain or loss recognized in Equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions the income statement during the period in which the settlement with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the or curtailment occurs.
date at which they are granted and is recognized as an expense over The interest element of the defined benefit cost represents the the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant change in present value of scheme obligations resulting from the employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is passage of time, and is determined by applying the discount rate to determined by using an appropriate valuation model.
In valuing equitythe opening present value of the benefit obligation, taking into settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, account material changes in the obligation during the year.
The other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the company expected return on plan assets is based on an assessment made at market conditions.
the beginning of the year of long-term market returns on scheme No expense is recognized for awards that do not ultimately vest, assets, adjusted for the effect on the fair value of plan assets of except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market contributions received and benefits paid during the year.
The condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not difference between the expected return on plan assets and the the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance interest cost is recognized in the income statement as other finance conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense Actuarial gains and losses are recognized in full in the group is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has statement of recognized income and expense in the period in expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or which they occur.
otherwise of non-market conditions and the number of equity The defined benefit pension asset or liability in the balance sheet instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument comprises the total for each plan of the present value of the defined subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described benefit obligation using a discount rate based on high quality above.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous corporate bonds, less any past service cost not yet recognized and balance sheet date is recognized in the income statement, with a less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be corresponding entry in equity.
Fair value is based on market price information and, in Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new the case of quoted securities, is the published bid price.
The value of a award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the net pension benefit asset is restricted to the sum of any unrecognized cost based on the original award terms continues to be recognized past service costs and the present value of any amount the group over the original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognized expects to recover by way of refunds from the plan or reductions in over the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair the future contributions.
value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair Contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognized in value of the original award and the fair value of the modified award, the income statement in the period in which they become payable.
both as measured on the date of the modification.
No reduction is recognized if this difference is negative.
CORPORATE TAXES Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had Tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and vested on the date of cancellation and any cost not yet recognized in deferred tax.
the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
Any The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profits for the compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
taxable or deductible in other periods and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The groups liability for current tax Cash-settled transactions The cost of cash-settled transactions is is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively measured at fair value using an appropriate option valuation model.
enacted by the balance sheet date.
Fair value is established initially at the grant date and at each Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on all balance sheet date thereafter until the awards are settled.
During the temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax vesting period, a liability is recognized representing the product of the bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial fair value of the award and the portion of the vesting period expired as reporting purposes.
at the balance sheet date.
From the end of the vesting period until Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable temporary settlement, the liability represents the full fair value of the award as differences: at the balance sheet date.
Changes in the carrying amount for the Except where the deferred tax liability arises on goodwill that is liability are recognized in profit or loss for the period.
not tax deductible or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time PENSIONS AND OTHER POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans is profit or loss: and determined separately for each plan using the projected unit method, In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the to determine the present value of defined benefit obligation and is temporary differences can be controlled by the group and it is based on actuarial advice.
Past service costs are recognized in profit probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the or loss on a straight-line basis over the vesting period or immediately foreseeable future.
if the benefits have vested.
When a settlement eliminating all Deferred tax assets are recognized for all deductible temporary obligations for benefits already accrued or a curtailment reducing differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the scheme to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available membership or a reduction in future entitlement occurs, the against which the deductible temporary differences and the carryobligation and related plan assets are remeasured using current forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilized: 36 Making energy more REVENUE Except where the deferred income tax asset relating to the Revenue arising from the sale of goods is recognized when the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business and it can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and receivable for goods provided in the normal course of business, net In respect of deductible temporary differences associated with of discounts, customs duties and sales taxes.
investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and Revenues associated with the sale of oil, natural gas liquids, associates, deferred tax assets are only recognized to the extent liquefied natural gas, petroleum and chemicals products and all other that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the items are recognized when the title passes to the customer.
Supply foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which buy sell arrangements with common counterparties are reported net the temporary differences can be utilized.
Similarly, oil and natural gas forward The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at sales purchase contracts and sales purchases of trading inventory each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer are included on a net basis in sales and other operating revenues.
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or Generally, revenues from the production of oil and natural gas part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilized.
properties in which the group has an interest with other producers Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates are recognized on the basis of the groups working interest in those that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realized properties the entitlement method.
Differences between the or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have production sold and the groups share of production are not significant.
been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Interest income is recognized as the interest accrues using the Tax relating to items recognized directly in equity is recognized effective interest rate method that is the rate that exactly discounts in equity and not in the income statement.
estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset.
CUSTOMS DUTIES AND SALES TAXES Dividend income from investments is recognized when the Revenues, expenses and assets are recognized net of the amount shareholders right to receive the payment is established.
of customs duties or sales tax except: Where the customs duty or sales tax incurred on a purchase of RESEARCH goods and services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, Research costs are expensed as incurred.
in which case the customs duty or sales tax is recognized as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense FINANCE COSTS item as applicable: and Finance costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction Receivables and payables are stated with the amount of customs or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily duty or sales tax included.
take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use, The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the are substantially ready for their intended use.
All other finance costs are recognized in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
OWN EQUITY INSTRUMENTS The groups holding in its own equity instruments, including shares USE OF ESTIMATES held by Employee Share Ownership Plans ESOPs, are classified as The preparation of financial statements requires management to treasury shares, and shown as deductions from shareholders equity make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts at cost.
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also of assets and liabilities as well as the disclosure of contingent assets recognized in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from and liabilities at the balance sheet date and the reported amounts sale and the original cost being taken to revenue reserves.
No gain or of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual loss is recognized in the performance statements on the purchase, outcomes could differ from those estimates.
sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2005 37 NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS NOT APPLIED During the year, the IASB and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements: International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs Effective date IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2007 IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures 1 January 2007 IAS 21 Amendment Net Investment in Foreign Operation Yet to be adopted by the EU 1 January 2006 IAS 39 Fair Value Option 1 January 2006 IAS 39 Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 Financial Guarantee Contracts 1 January 2006 IFRIC interpretations IFRIC 5 Rights to Interests Arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds 1 January 2006 IFRIC 6 Liabilities Arising from Participating in a Specific Market a Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment 1 December 2005 IFRIC 7 Applying IAS 29 for the First Time Yet to be adopted by the EU 1 March 2006 IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Yet to be adopted by the EU 1 May 2006 The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements in the period of initial application.
Upon adoption of IFRS 7, the group will disclose additional information about its financial instruments, their significance and the nature and extent of risks to which they give rise.
More specifically, the group will be required to disclose the fair value of its financial instruments and its risk exposure in greater detail.
There will be no effect on reported income or net assets.
a IFRIC 6 is effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 December 2005.
