Investing in Fidelity European Values PLC The Manager of the Company Fidelity Investments International offers a range of options, so that you can invest in the way that is best for you.
As Fidelity European Values PLC is a company listed on the London Stock Exchange you can also buy its shares through a stockbroker, share shop or bank.
INVESTING INSIDE AN ISA INVESTING OUTSIDE AN ISA A Fidelity ISA Individual Savings Account can be an If you prefer to invest outside an ISA, or have already excellent way to get more from your investment, used your full ISA allowance, the Fidelity Investment because you will not have to pay income or capital Trust Share Plan offers you a low-cost and convenient gains tax on your returns.
way to put money into Fidelity European Values PLC.
up to 7,000 in a Maxi ISA The minimum investment is 1,000 as a lump sum, 250 as a top-up or 50 a month in a regular savings plan.
up to 4,000 in a Mini stocks and shares ISA Investing for children The Share Plan is a flexible and The minimum investment in the Fidelity ISA is 1,000 inexpensive way to invest on behalf of children.
All you as a lump sum, 250 as a top-up or 50 a month in a have to do is enter the initials or name of the child in regular savings plan.
the Designation Box on the Share Plan application form.
A special leaflet on investing for children through 5 in 1 ISA Fidelity European Values PLC is one of five investment trusts is available from Fidelity.
investment trusts managed by Fidelity.
You can invest in the entire range through the Fidelity 5-in-1 ISA, Charges There are no charges for buying, selling or which spreads your money equally across all five trusts.
holding shares through the Fidelity Investment Trust This offers a simple and convenient way to invest Share Plan other than Stamp Duty of 0.5%, which is across Europe, the UK, Japan and Asia giving you a currently payable on all share purchases.
However, if broadly diversified portfolio in a single investment.
you invest through a Financial Adviser, there may be an initial charge of up to 3% to pay for advice.
Charges The standard initial charge for the Fidelity ISA is 3.5%.
There are no other charges for the Fidelity ISA, Holding shares directly If you have shares in Fidelity but the Company pays an annual management charge to European Values PLC that you bought through a Fidelity of 1% plus VAT, as set out in the Annual Report.
broker or share shop, you can transfer them into the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan.
Doing this allows MOVING MONEY FROM you to reinvest your dividends and make further PREVIOUS PEPS AND ISAS investments without having to pay brokerage fees.
You If you have opened ISAs or PEPs with other investment will also be able to set up a monthly savings plan and companies, you can move them into the Fidelity ISA and receive statements and valuations twice a year.
invest in Fidelity European Values PLC without losing any tax benefits.
This is known as a transfer and it can be INVESTING ONLINE a great way to give your portfolio a new focus, or to You can invest online in Fidelity European Values PLC realign it with your current investment goals.
Please note shares via www.
Fidelity that during the transfer your money will not be invested Share Network enables you to buy or sell shares in any in the stockmarket so you may miss out on any growth listed company during normal London Stock Exchange during this time.
trading hours between 8am and 4.30pm any working day.
Shares in Share Network can either be held direct Charges The standard initial charge for a transfer is or in an ISA, subject to the normal ISA limits and 3.5%.
You will not have to pay any additional transfer restrictions.
You will be shown a live price and be able costs.
However, please bear in mind that your current to buy or sell immediately.
If an order is placed when ISA or PEP manager may ask you to pay an exit fee.
the market is closed, it will be processed as soon as The annual management charge is as described above.
Unlike many online share dealing Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP Internet site: http: www.
co. uk its KEEPING YOU UPDATED The share price of Fidelity European Values PLC appears daily in The Financial Times.
Page 44 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2005 Investing in Fidelity European Values PLC services, Fidelity Share Network gives you CREST Holders of ordinary shares Capita Registrars, personal membership for shares held direct.
This Registrars to Fidelity European Values PLC, means that shares are registered on the CREST system The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent in your own name and everything relating to your BR3 4TU Telephone: 0870 162 3100 shares dividends, annual reports and so on will be sent direct to you and you will be able to attend and Share Plan investors Fidelity Investment Trust Share vote at shareholder meetings in your own name.
Plan, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, Personal CREST membership does not apply to ISA West Sussex BN99 6DA holdings which must be held in the name of the ISA managers nominee under ISA regulations.
Fidelity ISA PEP investors Fidelity, using the freephone Share Network has a very competitive cost structure.
numbers given above, or by writing to: Share purchases or sales are executed on line for only UK Customer Service, Fidelity Investments, Oakhill 9 per trade.
Stamp duty is also payable on House, 130 Tonbridge Road, Hildenborough, purchases at the rate of 0.5%.
There is an account Tonbridge, Kent TN11 9DZ administration fee of 5 per month, however many different shares you own and whatever their value.
co. uk sharenetwork CONTACT INFORMATION Private investors: call free to 0800 41 41 10, 9am to 6pm.
General enquiries should be made to Fidelity, the Investment Manager and Secretary, at the Companys Financial advisers: call free to 0800 41 41 81, 8am to registered office: 6pm, Monday to Friday.
Fidelity Investments International Investment Trusts Existing shareholders who have a specific query Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Kingswood, regarding their holding or need to provide update information, for example a change of address, should contact the appropriate administrator: Price and performance information is also available at fidelity.
co. uk its Investors can obtain the real-time share price by phoning FT Cityline on 0906 843 2287.
FURTHER INFORMATION For application forms or more information about any of the investment options described here, please call the Fidelity Investment Trust Line on 0800 41 41 10 and talk to a Fidelity customer representative 9am to 6pm.
Alternatively, you may like to visit the Fidelity London Investor Centre at 25 Cannon Street, next to St Pauls Cathedral.
You can also find out more by visiting fidelity.
co. uk its or contacting your Financial Adviser.
The Fidelity Individual Savings Account ISA is offered and managed by Financial Administration Services Limited.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is managed by Fidelity Investments International.
Both companies are authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is administered by Lloyds TSB Registrars and shares will be held in the name of Lloyds TSB Registrars Savings Nominees Limited.
The value of savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will depend on individual circumstances and all tax rules may change in the future.
Fidelity only provides information about its products and will not give investment advice based on individual circumstances.
Should you wish to seek advice please contact a Financial Adviser.
Issued by Fidelity Investments International.
For the purposes of Sections 21 and 25 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, the content of this report has been approved by Fidelity Investments International.
Please note that the value of investments and the income from them may fall as well as rise and the investor may not get back the amount originally invested.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2005 Page 45
