Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
"ACCOUNTING POLICIES The Company has prepared its financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice ""UK GAAP"" and the AITC Statement of Recommended Practice ""SORP"" for Investment Trusts dated January 2003 and revised in December 2005."
Prior year adjustments, as shown in note 20 on page 41, have arisen due to the change in the accounting treatment of proposed dividends as explained in note i. a Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention, modified to include the revaluation of fixed asset investments and on the assumption that approval as an investment trust will be granted.
b Income Income from equity investments is credited to revenue on the date on which the right to receive the payment is established.
Interest receivable on fixed interest securities is accounted for on an accruals basis so as to reflect the effective interest rate on the security.
Franked dividends are accounted for net of any tax credit.
Unfranked investment income includes tax deducted at source.
Interest receivable on short term loans and deposits, interest payable and expenses of management are dealt with on an accruals basis.
Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than cash, the amount of the cash dividend is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend is recognised in capital reserves.
c Special dividends Special dividends are treated as a capital receipt or a revenue receipt depending on the circumstances and facts of each particular case.
d Expenses and finance costs All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis and are charged in full to the revenue column of the Income Statement.
"Finance costs are accounted for on an accruals basis and in accordance with the provisions of Financial Reporting Standard ""FRS"" 26 ""Financial Instruments: Measurement""."
e Taxation The tax effect of different items of income or expenses is allocated between the capital return and revenue return using the marginal basis.
Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated, but not reversed, at the balance sheet date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred.
A deferred tax asset is recognised when it is more likely than not that the asset will be recoverable.
f Foreign currency The Directors, having regard to the currency of the Company's share capital and the predominant currency in which its investors operate, have determined the functional currency to be sterling.
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are calculated in sterling at the rate of exchange ruling as at the date of transactions.
Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Realised and unrealised capital gains and losses, including exchange differences on the translation of foreign currency assets and liabilities, are dealt with in capital reserves - realised and unrealised.
g Valuation of investments In accordance with FRS26 investments are classified as held at fair value through profit or loss.
Listed investments are valued at bid market price.
However, no adjustments have been made to the prior period's results as the Company has taken advantage of paragraph 108D of the Standard and disclosed the effect of valuing investments at bid price as shown in Note 9 on page 34.
Unlisted investments are valued at bid market prices ruling where an organised market in such investments exists: other unquoted investments are included at Directors' estimate of fair value.
Where a price is not readily available the holding would be valued at cost unless circumstances indicate a different valuation is warranted.
In general, valuations are increased where a substantial arm's length transaction has occurred subsequent to acquisition, at a price higher than cost.
Valuations are decreased where subsequent transactions have taken place at a price lower than cost or where Fidelity's Fair Value Committee is aware that the company is experiencing operating difficulties.
h Capital reserve realised Gains and losses on the realisation of investments and realised exchange differences of a capital nature are accounted for in the capital reserve realised.
Capital reserve unrealised Increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held at the year end and unrealised exchange differences of a capital nature are accounted for in the capital reserve unrealised.
"i Dividends FRS21: ""Events after the Balance Sheet Date"" In accordance with FRS21 dividends declared and approved by the Company after the balance sheet date have not been recognised as a liability of the Company at the balance sheet date."
Prior year results have been restated accordingly and this is shown on note 20 on page 41.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2005 Page 31
