Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General earlier, but so that this authority shall allow the Meeting of Fidelity European Values PLC will be held Company to make offers or agreements before the at 25 Cannon Street, London EC4M 5TA on 19 May expiry of this authority which would or might 2006 at 12 noon for the following purposes: require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry as if the authority conferred by this resolution ORDINARY BUSINESS had not expired.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005.
THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution 9 set out above, the Directors be and they are hereby 2.
authorised, pursuant to Section 95 of the Act to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 of 3.
To re-elect Mr Walther as a Director.
the Act for cash pursuant to the authority given by the said Resolution 9 as if Section 89 1 of the Act 4.
To re-elect Mr Fraser as a Director.
did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: 5.
To re-elect Mr Simpson as a Director.
a to the allotment of equity securities in connection 6.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for with a rights issue in favour of all holders of a class the year ended 31 December 2005. of relevant equity securities where the equity securities attributable respectively to the interests 7.
To re-appoint  LLP as of all holders of securities of such class are either Auditors of the Company, to hold office until the proportionate as nearly as may be to the conclusion of the next general meeting at which respective numbers of relevant equity securities accounts are laid before the Company.
held by them or are otherwise allotted in accordance with the rights attaching to such equity 8.
To authorise the Directors to determine the securities subject in either case to such exclusions Auditors remuneration.
or other arrangements as the Board may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional SPECIAL BUSINESS entitlements or legal or practical problems under Resolutions 9 and 10 will, if approved, authorise the the laws of, or the requirements of, any regulatory Directors to allot a limited number of the currently body or any stock exchange in any territory or unissued ordinary shares for cash without first offering otherwise : and such shares to existing ordinary shareholders pro rata to their existing holdings.
The limit set by the Board is b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to a rights 5% of the number of ordinary shares of the Company issue of equity securities up to an aggregate in issue on 6 March 2006.
The Directors will only issue nominal amount of 786,290 approximately 5% of new shares under this authority to take advantage of the aggregate nominal amount of the issued share opportunities in the market as they arise and only if capital of the Company as at 6 March 2006 : and they believe it is advantageous to the Companys shareholders to do so.
c to the allotment of equity securities at a price of not less than the net asset value per share To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions which will be proposed, Resolution 9 as an and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the ordinary resolution and Resolution 10 as a special next Annual General Meeting of the Company or resolution: the date 15 months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, save that this 9.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby authority shall allow the Company to make offers or generally and unconditionally authorised in agreements before the expiry of this authority, and accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act the Directors may allot equity securities in relation 1985 the Act to exercise all the powers of the to such an offer or agreement as if the authority Company to allot relevant securities as defined in conferred by this resolution had not expired.
that section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 786,290 approximately 5% of the aggregate Resolution 11 is a special resolution which, if approved, nominal amount of the issued share capital of the will renew the Companys authority to purchase its Company as at 6 March 2006 such authority to shares for cancellation.
The limit set by the Board is expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General 14.94% of the number of ordinary shares in issue on 6 Meeting of the Company or the date 15 months March 2006.
Purchases of shares will be made at the after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the discretion of the Board and within guidelines set from Page 42 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2005 Notice of Meeting time to time by the Board and in the light of prevailing Notes: market conditions.
Purchases will only be made in the 1 A shareholder entitled to attend and vote is entitled market at prices below the prevailing net asset value to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and, on a per share, thereby resulting in an increase in net asset poll, vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a value per share.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and 2 A form of proxy is enclosed for use by shareholders.
unconditionally authorised in accordance with Completion and return of the form of proxy will not Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act prevent a shareholder from subsequently attending to make market purchases within the meaning of the meeting and voting in person if they so wish.
Section 163 of the Act of shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company the shares provided 3 To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy, that: and any power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a copy of any such authority a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised certified notarially or in some other way approved to be purchased shall be 9,400,000: by the Directors, must be deposited with the Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, The b the minimum price which may be paid for a share is Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent 25p: BR3 4BR not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting or, in c the maximum price which may be paid for a share is the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after it an amount equal to 105% of the average of the is demanded, not less than 24 hours before the middle market quotations for a share taken from time appointed for the taking of the poll at which it the London Stock Exchange Official List for the five is to be used.
business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is purchased: 4 In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who tenders the vote shall be accepted to the d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the Company unless such authority is renewed prior the order in which the names stand in the Register to such time: and of Members.
e the Company may make a contract to purchase 5 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to Securities Regulations 2001 the Company has the expiry of such authority which will or may be specified that only those shareholders registered in executed wholly or partly after the expiration of the Register of Members of the Company at such authority and may make a purchase of shares 5.30pm on 17 May 2006 shall be entitled to attend pursuant to any such contract.
and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
By Order of the Board Changes to the Register of Members after 5.30pm on 17 May 2006 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and Fidelity Investments International vote at the meeting.
Secretary 3 April 2006 6 Shareholders and any proxies or representatives they appoint agree by attending the meeting that they are expressly agreeing that they are willing to receive any communications, including communications relating to the Companys securities, made at the meeting.
7 No Director has a service contract with the Company.
Registered Office: Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Kingswood, Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2005 Page 43
