RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DIRECTORS FOR THE PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The directors are required by company law to prepare financial statements which give In preparing these financial statements on a going concern basis, the directors have ensured a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group as at the end that appropriate accounting policies have been used and been applied consistently, that of each financial year and of the profit or loss of the group for that period.
They are also applicable accounting standards have been followed and that reasonable and prudent responsible for maintaining proper accounting records, for safeguarding the assets of the judgements have been made.
group and for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BPB PLC We have audited the groups financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2005 which We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is comprise the group profit and loss account, balance sheets, group cash flow statement, consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises the group statement of total recognised gains and losses and the related notes 1 to 30.
These directors report, unaudited part of the remuneration committee report, chairmans financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set out statement, chief executives review, operating and financial review, corporate responsibility therein.
We have also audited the information in the remuneration committee report that statement, corporate governance statement, the financial highlights and five year statistical is described as having been audited.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with do not extend to any other information.
Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the we have formed.
remuneration committee report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, including the financial circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
statements which are required to be prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards as set out in the statement of directors responsibilities above.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations The directors are also responsible for preparing the remuneration committee report.
which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the remuneration Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the remuneration committee report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by committee report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the listing rules of the Financial adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of Services Authority.
the remuneration committee report to be audited.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair OPINION view and whether the financial statements and the part of the remuneration committee In our opinion: report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have and of the group as at 31 March 2005 and of the profit of the group for the year to that not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information date: and specified by law or the listing rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the group is not disclosed.
the financial statements and the part of the remuneration committee report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the groups compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Ernst & Young LLP listing rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not Registered Auditor required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and London 18 May 2005 controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
