NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Basis of preparation Mineral deposits are depleted in the proportion that extraction for the year bears to the These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable UK Accounting latest estimate of the usable tonnage.
Standards under the historical cost convention.
They incorporate the results of the parent company and its subsidiary undertakings and include the results of joint ventures and The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment if events or associated undertakings.
Joint ventures are long-term investments which are jointly changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
controlled by the group and one or more other venturers.
They are accounted for using the gross equity method.
Entities, other than subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures, in Capital grants which the group has a participating interest and over whose operating and financial policies Capital grants are treated as a deferred credit and are transferred to the profit and loss the group exercises a significant influence are treated as associated undertakings.
All account over the lives of the relevant assets.
subsidiary and associated undertakings and joint ventures are companies, and are referred to as such in these financial statements.
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Leases Act 1985, no separate profit and loss account is shown for the parent company, BPB plc.
Assets held through finance leases are capitalised and depreciated similarly to other assets.
The interest element of the rental payment is charged to the profit and loss account over The accounts of all subsidiaries have been prepared for the year to 31 March 2005. the period of the lease.
Rentals for assets used under operating leases are charged to the The groups share of associated companies and joint ventures profits is based, for the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
principal companies, on the latest audited accounts, which cover in all cases the year to 31 December 2004.
Shareholders funds, minority interests and dividends referred to in Stocks these financial statements are wholly attributable to equity interests.
Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is arrived at mainly on a first-in first-out basis and includes all the expenditure incurred in bringing stocks to Changes in accounting standards their present location and condition.
Provision is made where necessary against slowDuring the year the Accounting Standards Board issued UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for moving, damaged or obsolete stock.
ESOP Trusts and UITF Abstract 17 Revised Employee Share Schemes.
These have both been adopted in the current year.
Employee share schemes No charge is made to the profit and loss account in respect of SAYE schemes that are Abstract 38 changes the presentation in the balance sheet of an entitys own shares held offered on similar terms to all, or substantially all, UK employees.
in an employee share trust from requiring them to be recognised as assets to requiring their value to be deducted in arriving at shareholders funds.
The impact of this change in Pension costs and post-retirement benefits accounting policy has been to reduce fixed asset investments by 0.7 million and to reduce The cost of providing pensions and other benefits for employees is charged against profit shareholders funds by 0.7 million at 31 March 2004. systematically, with actuarially assessed surpluses or deficits being amortised over employees expected average remaining period of service.
Turnover Turnover represents the value of sales stated net of trade discounts, VAT and other sales taxes.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised as a liability or asset if the transactions or events that give rise Acquisitions and disposals to an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax in the future have occurred by the The results of subsidiary and associated companies and joint ventures sold or acquired are balance sheet date.
In particular: included in the group accounts up to, or from, the date when control effectively passes.
provision is made for gains on disposal of fixed assets that have been rolled over into The net assets of subsidiaries are included at fair values on acquisition: any goodwill replacement assets only where, at the balance sheet date, there is a commitment to arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary, associated company or joint venture is treated dispose of the replacement assets as described below.
Group reserves include the groups share of the post-acquisition reserves of associated companies and joint ventures.
provision is made for the tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures only to the extent Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 31 March 1998 was written off directly against that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable reserves.
This goodwill was not reinstated on implementation of FRS10.
Positive goodwill arising on acquisitions since 1 April 1998 is capitalised, classified as an asset on the balance Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is considered more likely than sheet and amortised on a straight line basis over its useful life up to a presumed maximum not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences of 20 years.
It is reviewed for impairment at the end of the first full financial year following can be deducted.
the acquisition, and in other periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively Goodwill, whether previously written off to reserves or capitalised as an asset, is included in enacted at the balance sheet date, and is not discounted.
the calculation of profit or loss on any subsequent disposal or termination of the entities to which it relates.
Recultivation provisions Recultivation provisions are made when the group has either a legal or constructive Tangible fixed assets obligation to restore mineral workings to an agreed condition.
These provisions are stated Depreciation is provided to write off the cost, less residual value, of tangible fixed assets after discounting the estimated liability to present values.
on the straight line basis over the expected future lives in their current location.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land where the cost is separately identifiable, and major projects are not depreciated whilst in the course of construction.
Typical asset lives used are: Freehold buildings up to 33 years Leasehold property the period of the lease Plant and machinery 8 to 20 years Mobile plant and vehicles 3 to 7 years BPB ANNUAL REPORT 2005 51
