Notice of Annual General Meeting hereby revoked, provided that such revocation shall not Notice is hereby given that the thirty third Annual General Meeting of Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC will be held at have retrospective effect: and Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2NY on c words and expressions defined in or for the purposes of Thursday, 15 December 2005 at 10.30 am for the following Part IV of the Act shall bear the same meanings in this purposes: resolution.
Ordinary Business: 10 To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution 1 To receive and adopt the Directors Report and Accounts as a special resolution: for the year ended 30 September 2005.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report.
unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 166 3 To declare a dividend on the ordinary shares.
of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market 4 To re-elect Mr D F E Bierbaum as a Director.
purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the Act of 5 To re-elect Mr R Kanza as a Director.
ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the capital of the 6 To re-elect Mr C P McDougall as a Director.
Company ordinary shares on such terms and in such 7 To re-appoint  LLP as auditors to manner as the Directors may from time to time determine, the Company.
provided that: 8 To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby the auditors.
authorised to be purchased is 8,835,070: Special Business b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary 9 To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution share shall be 25 pence: as a special resolution: c the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary THAT: share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the a the Directors be and they are hereby: middle market quotations for an ordinary share as i generally and unconditionally authorised, in derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act List for the five business days immediately preceding 1985 the Act, to exercise all the powers of the the date on which the ordinary share is contracted to be Company to allot relevant securities up to an purchased: aggregate nominal amount of 736,747 during the d the minimum and maximum prices per ordinary share period commencing on the date of the passing of this referred to in sub-paragraphs b and c of this resolution and expiring at the conclusion of the annual resolution are in each case exclusive of any expenses general meeting of the Company in 2006: and payable by the Company: ii empowered, pursuant to Section 95 of the Act, to allot e the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 14 June equity securities pursuant to the authority referred to in 2007 unless it is renewed at the annual general meeting paragraph a i of this resolution as if Section 89 1 of of the Company in 2006, or is varied, revoked or the Act did not apply to any such allotment: renewed prior to such time by the Company in general but so that this authority and power shall enable meeting by special resolution: and the Company to make offers or agreements which f the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary would or might require relevant securities or equity shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the securities to be allotted after the expiry of this expiry of such authority which will or may be completed authority and power: wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority.
b all authorities and powers previously conferred under Section 80 or Section 95 of the Act be and they are Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC | Report and Accounts 2005 43 CITY ROAD Y. R T S X C E U S E ST.
I L D D B R I WORSHIP STREET M SOUTH ELDON PLACE STREET SUN S REE T LIVERPOOL STREET STATION LONDON WALL EXCHANGE SQUARE LIVE P R OOL PRIMROSE STREET S C CHISWELL STREET FINSBURY SQUARE FINSBURY SQUARE WORSHIP STREET N U MOORGATE BROADGATE CIRCLE Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes: By Order of the Board Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, only F&C Management Limited shareholders registered on the register of members of the Company at 11.00 pm on 13 December 2005 the specified time shall be entitled to attend and vote or to be Secretary represented at the meeting in respect of the shares registered in their name at that time.
7 November 2005 Changes to entries on the register of members after 11.00 pm on 13 December 2005 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
If Registered Office: the meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the time applicable to the original meeting, the specified time will also apply for the purpose of determining the Exchange House entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the Primrose Street number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
If, however, the meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the London EC2A 2NY Companys register of members at 11.00 pm on the day which is 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at any time specified in that notice.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to Location of Meeting attend and vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
To be valid, a form of proxy for use at the meeting and the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed, or a notarially certified or office copy of such EXCHANGE HOUSE power or authority, must be deposited with the Companys registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 1075, Bristol, BS99 3ZZ, not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
In view of this requirement, investors holding shares in the Company through the F&C Private Investor, Personal Equity or Pension Savings Plans or in a F&C Individual Savings Account should ensure that forms of direction are returned to Computershare Investor Services PLC at the address on the form not later than 96 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
The register of Directors holdings is available for inspection at the registered office of the BROADGATE Company during normal business hours on any weekday and will be available at the place of the meeting from 15 minutes prior to the commencement of the meeting until the conclusion thereof.
No Director has any contract of service with the Company.
The final dividend in respect of the year ended 30 September 2005 will, if approved, be paid on 22 December 2005 to holders of ordinary shares on the register at the close of business on 18 November 2005.
The special dividend declared by the Directors on 4 November 2005 will also be paid on 22 December 2005 to holders of ordinary shares on the register at the close of business on 18 November 2005.
44 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC | Report and Accounts 2005 I S F BISHOPSGATE PO L P D A S SHOREDITCH CURTAIN ROAD T MOORGATE WILSON STREET BLOMFIELD ST. R BROAD STREET E E T WILSON STREET TABERNACLE STREET W I L S O T E N E S TR I S H O FINSBURY SQUARE FINSBURY SQUARE P S B G A T E
