Notes on the Accounts 1 Accounting policies a Basis of accounting The accounts have been prepared on the historical cost basis of Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in the accounting, modified to include fixed asset investments at form of additional shares rather than in cash, the amount of the valuation and in accordance with accounting standards applicable cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
Any excess in in the United Kingdom and with the Statement of Recommended the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies dividend foregone is recognised in capital reserve.
SORP, issued in January 2003. e Expenses The principal accounting policies are set out below.
All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses b Valuation of investments are charged through the revenue account except those expenses As an investment trust, the Company treats all transactions on the incidental to the acquisition or disposal of investments and realisation and the revaluation of investments held as transactions performance-related management fees insofar as they relate to on capital account.
These items, whether profits or losses, are not capital performance which are charged through capital reserves.
part of and are not reflected in the revenue account but are f Finance costs charged or credited to capital reserves.
Listed investments are Finance costs are accounted for on an accruals basis and are shown at middle market value and unlisted investments at charged through the revenue account.
g Taxation c Foreign currency Deferred tax is provided in accordance with FRS19 on all timing Foreign currency assets and liabilities are expressed in sterling at differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted sales of investment securities, dividends and interest income and to reflect the time value of money.
Deferred tax assets are only expenses are translated at rates of exchange prevailing on the recognised to the extent that they are recoverable respective dates of such transactions.
The Company does not h Capital reserves isolate that portion of gains and losses on investment securities Capital reserve realised which are due to changes in exchange rates from that which is The following are accounted for in this reserve: due to changes in the market price of securities.
Exchange profit gains and losses on the realisation of investments and losses on currency balances are charged or credited to realised exchange differences of a capital nature capital reserves except where they relate to revenue items.
other capital charges and credits charged or credited to this d Income account in accordance with the above policies Income from equity shares is brought into account except where, cost of purchasing ordinary share capital.
in the opinion of the Directors, their nature indicates they should Capital reserve unrealised be recognised as capital on the ex-dividend date or, where no exThe following are accounted for in this reserve: dividend date is quoted, when the Companys right to receive increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held payment is established.
at the year end Fixed returns on non-equity shares and debt securities are unrealised exchange differences of a capital nature.
recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on the investment.
"Dividends are accounted for in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 16 FRS16 ""Current Taxation"" on the basis of the income actually receivable, without adjustment for the tax credit attaching to the dividends."
Dividends from overseas companies are shown gross of withholding tax.
30 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC | Report and Accounts 2005
