Information for Shareholders Net Asset Value and Share Price Association of Investment Trust Companies The Companys net asset value is released daily, on AITC the working day following the calculation date, to the Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust is a member of London Stock Exchange.
the AITC, which publishes a monthly statistical information service in respect of member companies.
The current share price of Foreign & Colonial The publication also has details of ISA, PEP and Investment Trust is shown in the investment trust other investment plans available.
For further details, section of the stockmarket page in most leading please contact the AITC on 020 7282 5555, or visit newspapers, usually under For & Col. Investors in the website: www.
New Zealand and Germany can obtain share prices from leading newspapers in those countries.
UK Capital Gains Tax CGT An approved investment trust does not pay tax on Performance Information capital gains.
UK resident individuals may realise net Information on the Companys performance is provided capital gains of up to 8,500 in the tax year ended in the interim and final reports which are sent to 5 April 2006 tax year ending 5 April 2007: 8,800 shareholders in August and April respectively.
without incurring any tax liability.
More up-to-date performance information is available on the Internet at www.
com under Up to April 1998, the cost of investments for CGT Prices and Performance.
The F&C website at purposes was adjusted to allow for inflation between www.
com also provides a monthly update on the month of acquisition and the month of disposal of the Companys geographic spread and largest the investments.
For investments held at 6 April 1998 holdings, along with comments from the Fund and disposed of after that date, this indexation Manager.
allowance will be computed for the period from the date of acquisition to April 1998, with taper relief applying after April 1998.
For assets acquired on or Summary Financial Statement after 6 April 1998, only taper relief applies.
The taper An Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement reduces the amount of chargeable gain according to for the year ended 31 December 2005 is obtainable the number of complete years after 5 April 1998 for during normal working hours from the Companys which the investment has been held.
Registered Office at Exchange House, Primrose For UK investors who acquired Foreign & Colonial Street, London EC2A 2NY.
This document contains Investment Trust stock prior to 31 March 1982, the the Chairmans Statement and the Business Review, costs for CGT purposes, based on the price at that together with a Summary Report of the Directors and date, adjusted for capital changes, are as follows: their compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, Directors Remuneration Unit of quotation Market price Report, Summary Income Statement, Summary Reconciliation of Movement in Shareholders Funds, Ordinary shares 25p 14.875p Summary Balance Sheet and Notes.
It does not 4.25% perpetual contain sufficient information to allow as full an debenture stock 100 28.25 understanding of the results and state of affairs of the Company as is provided by the full Annual Report Income Tax and Accounts.
The proposed final dividend of 2.55p per share is The full Annual Report and Accounts and Annual payable on 24 May 2006.
Individual UK resident Review and Summary Financial Statement shareholders who are subject to UK income tax at the are also published on the Internet at lower rate or the basic rate have no further tax liability.
Shareholders not resident in the UK, and any shareholders in doubt as to their tax position, should consult their professional advisers.
76 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
