General information Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC is an Investment Company, incorporated in the United Kingdom with a primary listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company Registration number is 12901, and the Registered office is Exchange House, Primrose Street, London, EC2A 2NY, England.
The Company conducts its affairs so as to qualify as an Investment Trust under the provisions of Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act, 1988.
Approval of the Company under S842 has been received subject to there being no subsequent enquiry in respect of the year ended 31 December 2004 and all previous applicable financial years.
Such approval exempts the Company from UK Corporation Tax on gains realised in the relevant year on its portfolio of fixed assets investments.
Significant accounting policies a Basis of accounting The accounts of the Company have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include fixed assets investments at fair value, and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, Accounting Standards applicable in the United Kingdom and with the Revised Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies SORP issued in December 2005.
The functional and reporting currency of the Company is pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
The Company had no operating subsidiaries at any time during the year ended 31 December 2005.
Consequently, consolidated accounts have not been prepared.
b Changes in presentation In accordance with the SORP, the Income Statement formerly called the Statement of Total Return has been analysed between a Revenue Account dealing with items of a revenue nature and a Capital Account relating to items of a capital nature.
Revenue returns include, but are not limited to, dividend income and operating expenses and tax insofar as the expenses and tax are not allocated to capital, as described in note 2 below.
Net revenue returns are allocated via the revenue account to the Revenue Reserve, out of which interim and final dividend payments are made.
Capital returns include, but are not limited to, realised and unrealised profits and losses on fixed asset investments and currency profits and losses on cash and borrowings.
Net capital returns may not be distributed by way of dividend and are allocated via the capital account to the Capital Reserves.
Dividends payable to equity shareholders are no longer reflected in the Income Statement, although they continue to be shown in the Reconciliation of Movement in Shareholders Funds which is now presented as a primary statement.
c Changes in accounting policies With effect from 1 January 2005, the Company has adopted Financial Reporting Standards FRS 21 to 26.
The effect of adoption, where it has resulted in a change in a significant accounting policy, is described below.
FRS 21 Events after the Balance Sheet date Dividends paid by the Company are accounted for in the period in which the Company is liable to pay them.
Previously, the Company accrued dividends in the period in which the net revenue, to which those dividends related, was accounted for.
"FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Measurement The Company has designated its assets as being measured at ""fair value through profit or loss""."
The fair value of fixed asset listed investments is deemed to be the bid value of those investments at the close of business on the relevant date.
Previously, all listed investments were valued at mid value.
There have been no other changes to significant accounting policies during the year.
The comparatives for the year ended 31 December 2004 have been restated to give effect to the above changes.
Notes 9, 11, 20 and 25 on the accounts further explain the restatements.
54 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
