FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS Notes to the EEV results the net pension liability of FPPS on an IAS 19 basis but including 1.
Methodology holdings in non-transferable securities issued by the Group both net of deferred tax : 1.1 Basis of preparation a provision for future corporate costs: The EEV results presented in this document have been prepared in the present value of future profits attributable to shareholders accordance with the European Insurers Chief Financial Officers from existing policies of the Life & Pensions business.
Forums EEV Principles issued in May 2004 and the Additional Guidance issued in 2005.
They provide supplementary information The shareholders net worth includes the corporate debt of the Group.
for the year ended 31 December 2005.
This debt is valued at market value, consistent with the EEV guidance.
The comparative figures for 31 December 2004 were presented in EEV and other balance sheet items denominated in foreign the EEV restatement on 12 October 2005.
Certain comparatives currencies have been translated to sterling using the appropriate have been restated to ensure consistency in preparation and closing exchange rate.
The new business contribution and other presentation of these results.
income statement items have been translated using an average exchange rate for the relevant period.
The EEV basis of reporting is designed to recognise profit as it is earned over the term of the policy.
The total profit recognised over 1.2 Covered business the lifetime of the policy is the same as that recognised under the The covered business incorporates the Life & Pensions business IFRS basis of reporting, but the timing of recognition is different.
defined as long-term business by UK and overseas regulators.
The reported embedded value provides an estimate of the value of F&C is not included in the definition of covered business.
shareholders interest in the covered business, excluding any value that may be generated from future new business.
This value 1.3 Allowance for risk comprises the sum of the shareholders net worth, the provision for future corporate costs and the value of existing business.
The The allowance for risk in the shareholder cash flows is a key feature shareholders net worth is the net assets attributable to of the EEV Principles.
The EEV guidance sets out three main areas shareholders, and is represented by the sum of required capital and available to allow for risk in an embedded value: free surplus.
The value of existing business is the present value of the projected stream of future distributable profits available to the risk discount rate: shareholders from the existing business at the valuation date, on a the allowance for the cost of financial options and guarantees: best estimate basis allowing for risk, adjusted for the cost of holding the cost of holding both prudential reserves and any additional required capital.
The supplementary information should be read in conjunction with The market-consistent approach has been used to allow for risk in all the Groups IFRS results.
These contain information regarding the three areas.
Groups financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and adopted 1.4 Deriving risk discount rates for use in the EU.
A market-consistent embedded value has been calculated for each product line by valuing the cash flows in line with the prices of The EEV principles have been followed in respect of non-covered similar cash flows traded on the open market.
In other respects the IFRS basis of reporting has been applied unless the EEV principles dictate otherwise.
In particular the In principle, each cash flow is valued using the discount rate principles have been applied to reflect Step-up Tier one Insurance consistent with that applied to such a cash flow in the capital Securities STICS as debt rather than as equity.
For example, an equity cash flow is valued using an equity risk discount rate, and a bond cash flow is valued using a bond risk In addition, a pro forma embedded value is reported showing discount rate.
If a higher return is assumed for equities, the equity ordinary shareholders funds on an EEV basis adjusted to include cash flow is discounted at this higher rate.
the F&C listed subsidiary at market value.
In practice, for liabilities where the payouts are either independent or Shareholders net assets on an EEV basis for the Group consist move linearly with market movements, a method known as the of the following: certainty equivalent approach has been applied whereby all assumed assets are assumed to earn the risk-free rate and all cash Life & Pensions net assets: flows are discounted using the risk-free rate.
This gives the same the Groups share of its investment in the Asset Management result as applying the method in the previous paragraph.
business including the net pension liability on an IFRS basis: corporate net liabilities: 182 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005
