EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 30.
Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating risks e Movement in available capital The Groups risk management policies and the processes for At 31 December 2005 FPLP's total available capital resources had identifying risks across the Group, including strategic and operational increased by 430m to 2,467m.
risks, are described in the Corporate governance report.
These processes include identification and control of financial, insurance, The available capital in FPLP With Profits Fund increased by 105m and other risks, the key components of which are: to 236m.
This increase primarily results from assumption changes - in particular increases in surrender charges which are now in line Market risk the risk of loss arising from changes in the values with the Scheme of Demutualisation and which have increased of, or income from, assets or in interest or exchange rates.
There have also been a number of risk of loss also arises from changes in the volatility of asset refinements to the model to improve the accuracy of the liabilities.
prices, interest rates or exchange rates.
The available capital in FPLA With Profits Fund increased by 36m Insurance risk the risk of loss due to the inherent uncertainties to 118m as a result of the surplus arising in the year.
as to the occurrence, amounts and timing of insurance liabilities.
Credit risk the risk of loss due to the default of a company, The available capital in the UK non-participating funds reduced by individual or country, or a change in investors risk appetite.
332m to 814m mainly due to the non inclusion of implicit items Liquidity risk the risk of loss because a firm, although solvent, 2004: 110m and the subordinated debt 2004: 215m.
Capital of either does not have sufficient financial resources available to it 205m has been injected to meet new business strain of 267m.
in order to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can secure Other surpluses net of transfers to shareholders amount to 55m.
them only at excessive cost.
The available capital in the overseas funds increased by 27m to For each of the above risks, the Group determines its risk appetite 56m as a result of surpluses arising in the year and the acquisition and sets its investment and underwriting policies accordingly.
Group companies set their respective qualitative risk appetites in a range from no appetite for the risk, through to actively pursuing those The available capital in the shareholders funds increased by 594m risks where they have competitive advantage.
This primarily relates to an increase in capital of 290m documented in each of the above areas, including the actions to plus surpluses in shareholders funds transfers from non profit funds mitigate those risks.
A summary of how each risk is mitigated is of 434m, less 130m dividend to parent company.
provided below with, where appropriate, quantitative information on the exposure to that risk.
a Market risk Market risk includes equity and property risk, foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk.
The Group manages market risk attaching to assets backing specific policyholder liabilities and to assets held to deliver income and gains for the shareholder.
Within the unit-linked funds and with-profits funds, the Group manages market risk so as to provide a return in line with the expectations of policyholders.
The principal objective for shareholder assets is to manage them so that they meet the capital requirements of the Group, and support its future strategic and operational objectives.
Appetite for market risk varies for different asset classes and by the nature of the liabilities or funds that they represent.
For example, in the Life & Pensions business, in relation to equity risk, appetite varies from taking on the risk when it is beneficial to do so for shareholder earnings at risk from annual management charges on unit-linked policies to avoiding risk wherever possible for assets backing non-linked, non-profit policies.
For assets backing policyholder liabilities, market risk is managed by matching, where possible, the duration and profile of assets to the policyholder liabilities they are backing.
This helps manage market risk to the extent that changes in the values of assets are matched by a corresponding movement in the values of liabilities.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 143 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued derivatives may be held to manage currency risk, but only if 31.
Risk management objectives and policies for permitted by individual fund mandates.
mitigating risks continued In addition to the mandates, the Group undertakes a programme of Market risk arises on guarantees and options offered on certain asset liability management.
For example, in order to manage the of the Groups products.
As described within the section on impact of interest changes on profit, corporate bonds and gilts are policyholder liabilities see note 28, the Group is exposed to held to match the duration of annuity and permanent health guarantees on bonus additions that become more valuable as insurance policies held.
This provides matching of cash flows and investment values fall.
In addition, the Group is exposed to valuation movements and is supplemented by the use of interest guaranteed cash and annuity options on certain pension policies that rate swaps to improve asset liability matching as necessary.
become more valuable as interest rates fall.
In order to manage the exposure arising from guarantees and Shareholders earnings are further exposed to market risk to the options, the Group purchases a number of derivatives, including extent that the income from policyholder funds is based on the value interest rate swaps, equity put options and interest rate swaptions, of financial assets held within those unit-linked or with-profits funds.
to manage exposures to falls in equity prices or interest rates.
Hedge accounting has not been applied to these derivatives, as Within F&C, there is no net market risk in relation to customer movements in the fair value of these instruments will be offset by assets because the risk is fully borne by the clients concerned.
the movement in the valuation of the liability.
As noted, the majority Other assets and liabilities do not expose the Asset Management of these guarantees arise within FPLPs With Profits Fund and so business to significant market risk.
F&C actively pursues market risk any net fair value movement will be reflected in the FFA rather than in relation to the impact on management fees of movements in within shareholders funds.
market variables such as equity prices and interest rates.
The following provides additional information on the exposure to The following summarises the key actions undertaken by the Group equity and property risk, foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk: to manage all aspects of market risk: i Equity and property risk The Group Board Investment Committee oversees investment For with-profits and unit-linked policies, the policyholders bear the policy and strategy, which the Group actions primarily through the majority of the investment risk and any change in asset values is use of investment fund mandates.
Day-to-day implementation of matched by a broadly equivalent change in the liability.
Shareholder investment policy and strategy is managed predominantly by F&C in funds invest in equities and are subject to risk from fluctuation in line with these approved mandates, subject to robust monitoring by their value.
Charges which are expressed as a percentage of fund the Group.
The approximate impact of a 10% change in equity and property values on post-tax shareholder profits and equity Mandates are set for each relevant fund within each of the is 72m 2004: 61m.
insurance legal entities within the Group taking account of the relevant factors outlined above.
Unit-linked funds are managed in ii Foreign exchange risk line with their underlying objectives.
The mandates set limits on the The Group invests in financial instruments denominated in level of market risk permitted using some or all of the following currencies other than its measurement currency pounds sterling.
mechanisms: Consequently, the Group is exposed to the risk that the exchange rate of its measurement currency relative to other currencies may defined performance benchmarks, change in a manner that has an adverse effect on the value of the a maximum proportion of the fund that can be held in equities Groups financial assets and liabilities.
and, for with-profits funds, a minimum level, restrictions on the size of companies within which equity For unit-linked contracts, currency risk is borne by the policyholder.
investment can be held eg potentially restricting UK equity to As noted above, the shareholders are subject to currency risk only to FTSE 100 stocks, the extent that income from policyholder funds is based on the defined asset allocations between UK and overseas equity value of the financial assets held in those funds.
The liability for nonexposure in specific regions, linked insurance contracts in currencies other than sterling is restrictions on the variation of the duration of the portfolio of immaterial.
bonds from the benchmark duration.
The impact of exchange rate movement on F&C is minimised by Equity derivatives are permitted to be held to facilitate efficient repatriation of excess foreign currency funds to sterling, and by portfolio management or to reduce investment risk without holding regulatory capital in the local currency.
disproportionately increasing other types of risk, and appropriate approval must be obtained for their use.
Currency futures and other 144 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 31.
Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating risks continued iii Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to fair value interest rate risk where changes to interest rates result in changes to fair values rather than cash flows, for example fixed interest rate loans and assets and derivatives that convert floating rate interest payments to fixed rates.
Conversely, floating rate loans and derivatives that convert fixed interest rates to floating rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
The following table shows effective interest rates for those financial instruments held at amortised cost and hence where such a rate is deemed applicable.
2005 2004 % % Assets Cash and cash equivalents 4.639 4.327 Liabilities 215m Undated subordinated guaranteed bonds 9.125 9.125 380m Floating rate secured notes 4.977 5.094 230m Secured bonds 5.230 - 290m Convertible bonds 5.250 5.250 Bank overdrafts 5.625 5.250 If interest rates increased by 1% across the whole yield curve there would be a fall in the value of fixed interest assets but the discount rate for valuing liabilities would be increased to partially offset the impact.
The net effect of a 1% increase in interest rates at all terms would reduce post-tax profit and equity by about 86m 2004: 64m.
The impact of a 1% reduction in interest rates would be to increase post tax profit and equity by about 79m 2004: 54m.
The following table indicates the contractual re-pricing dates for the Groups significant financial assets and liabilities and insurance and investment contracts that are exposed to interest rate risk there were no instances where the re-pricing dates were before maturity dates.
Assets and liabilities held within unit-linked funds where all financial risks are borne by the policyholder are excluded from the table below, as are any assets not directly exposed to interest rate risk.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 145 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 31.
Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating risks continued Year ended 31 December 2005 Less More than than No one 1-5 6-10 11-15 16-20 20 fixed Total year years years years years years term 2005 m m m m m m m m Financial and insurance assets: Cash flow interest rate risk Shares and other variable yield securities -------- Units in unit trusts and shares in open ended investment companies -------- Debt securities and other fixed income securities 55 68 33 49 15 197 - 417 Participation in investment pools -------- Derivative financial instruments - 15 40 14 73 144 - 148 Deposits with credit institutions 144 ------ 144 Fair value interest rate risk Shares and other variable yield securities ------ 9,778 9,778 Units in unit trusts and shares in open ended investment companies ------ 262 262 Debt securities and other fixed income securities 404 951 3,337 2,192 2,084 4,682 - 13,650 Participation in investment pools - - - 141 - - - 141 Derivative financial instruments 6 17 45 28 13 4 - 101 Deposits with credit institutions -------- Reinsurance assets 8 4 16 29 50 70 6 183 Financial and insurance liabilities: Fair value interest rate risk Insurance contracts 524 2,152 2,705 1,415 609 435 5,471 13,311 Investment contracts 269 675 824 715 634 833 2,510 6,460 Note that while significant cash flows often occur at the maturity date there are other cash flows which occur throughout the term of the contracts including income from investments, premiums, annuity payments, death and sickness payments, expenses and commission.
146 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 31.
Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating risks continued Year ended 31 December 2004 Less More than than No one 1-5 6-10 11-15 16-20 20 fixed Total year years years years years years term 2004 m m m m m m m m Financial and insurance assets: Cash flow interest rate risk Shares and other variable yield securities - - - - - - - - Units in unit trusts and shares in open ended investment companies - - - - - - - - Debt securities and other fixed income securities 155435228136-270 Participation in investment pools - - - - - - - - Derivative financial instruments 3 6 26 5 37 60 - 63 Deposits with credit institutions 86 - - - - - - 86 Fair value interest rate risk Shares and other variable yield securities - - - - - - 4,716 4,716 Units in unit trusts and shares in open ended investment companies - - - - - - 38 38 Debt securities and other fixed income securities  Participation in investment pools - - - 262 - - - 262 Derivative financial instruments 9 20 44 29 12 5 - 101 Deposits with credit institutions - - - - - - - - Reinsurance assets - 3 12 17 28 48 4 112 Financial and insurance liabilities: Fair value interest rate risk Insurance contracts 466 2,033 2,796 1,548 661 597 4,499 12,600 Investment contracts 248 633 734 648 556 800 2,686 6,305 Note that while significant cash flows often occur at the maturity date there are other cash flows which occur throughout the term of the contracts including income from investments, premiums, annuity payments, death and sickness payments, expenses and commission.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 147 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued F&C insurance contracts are all annuity contracts with guaranteed 31.
Risk management objectives and policies for payment during the life time of the annuitant at a specified level or mitigating risks continued with a specified escalation factor.
They are 100 per cent reinsured to Friends Provident Pensions Limited.
b Policy cash flow risk including insurance risk Policy cash flow risk consists of the following four main areas: i Mortality and morbidity risk Insurance risks: Life assurance mortality risk risk of loss arising due to policyholder deaths Most insurance policies other than annuities and deferred annuity experience being different from expectations: or for annuities, policies include life assurance.
When pricing policies, an assumption risk of annuitants living longer than expected called annuity is made as to the likelihood of death and this assumption is longevity risk : reviewed as part of the annual valuation of policies.
To the extent morbidity risk risk of loss arising due to policyholder health that actual mortality experience is worse than that anticipated in experience being different from expectations: pricing and subsequently in the insurance liability valuation a loss will be made.
The risk is greater for those policies such as term Other risks: assurance where the maturity or surrender benefit is small in policyholder decision risk risk of loss arising from experience relation to the death benefit.
Other policies which have a savings of actual policyholder behaviour eg lapses, option take-up being element, such as endowment assurance have significant liabilities different from expectations: relating to the maturity benefit, particularly as the policy approaches expense risk risk of loss due to expense experience being maturity.
Critical illness The Life & Pensions business actively pursues mortality risk and The Group writes a number of critical illness policies that pay out in morbidity risk in those areas where it believes it has a competitive the event of a policyholders ill health.
As for life assurance, the advantage in managing these risks to generate shareholder value amount payable on ill health can be significantly higher than the without compromising the interests of policyholders, and the need amount payable if the policy is surrendered.
Policyholder decision risk and expense risk are taken on when it is deemed financially beneficial for the An increase in experienced mortality and morbidity will reduce IFRS organisation to do so, or where the taking of these risks is in support profit.
A 5% increase in assurance mortality and critical illness of the Groups strategic objectives.
experience will reduce post-tax profit and equity by 26m 2004: 22m before allowing for reinsurance and 6m 2004: 7m net of Underpinning the Groups management of policy cashflow risk is: reinsurance.
This takes into account the impact from increasing the adherence to an approved underwriting policy that takes into provision for future mortality as well as the impact from actual account the level of risk that the Group is prepared to accept: experience.
A 5% reduction in assurance mortality and critical illness controls around the development of products and their pricing: experience would increase post-tax profit and equity by 22m 2004: and 16m before reinsurance and 4m 2004: 4m net of reinsurance.
regular analysis of actual mortality, morbidity and lapse experience which feeds into the development of products and policies.
Income protection Income protection policies pay a regular level of benefit if the Risks in excess of agreed underwriting limits may be reinsured.
The policyholder is unable to work due to incapacity for more than a Groups objective is to purchase reinsurance in the most costspecified period.
The two main risks involved are an increase in the effective manner from reinsurers whose creditworthiness is deemed frequency of claims the inception rate and an increase in the average appropriate.
length of the claim a reduction in recovery rate.
Most income protection policies are regular premium with the premium and cover Substantially all insurance contracts, and 60% of the combined fixed at inception.
Some group policies allow premiums to be reviewed insurance and investment contract portfolio, are written in the UK but the premium rates are usually guaranteed for three years.
and so results are sensitive to changes in the UK insurance market and tax regime.
Otherwise the Group sells a diverse range of The impact of inception rates increasing by 5% and recovery rates products to a diverse group of people.
reducing by 5% would be a 45m reduction in post-tax IFRS profit and equity 2004: 43m.
A 5% reduction in inception rates and a Note 28 describes the main insurance contracts written by the 5% increase in recovery rates would increase post-tax profit and Group and the basis of setting assumptions in measuring insurance equity by about 33m 2004: 31m.
The impact assumes that the liabilities which will take into account the risks above.
The following reserving basis is adjusted to reflect the change in experience.
sections describe how policy cashflow risks are managed and provide an indication of the sensitivity of reported profit to the risk.
Each sensitivity has been calculated independently of the remaining risks ie correlations between risks have been ignored.
148 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued iii Expense risk 31.
Risk management objectives and policies for Though under IFRS 4 expense risk is not a component of insurance mitigating risks continued risk, it is an important financial risk in the context of insurance and investment contracts.
Annuities Life annuities are contracts that, in return for a lump sum, pay a The whole of the impact of changes in expense levels is borne by regular amount usually monthly or annually and sometimes shareholders with the following exceptions.
In 2009 the charges increasing at a fixed or index-linked rate, until the death of the made to the FPLP With Profits Fund for managing policies will be policyholder.
As a result, if annuitants live longer than expected on reviewed to reflect market rates at the time.
Pre-demutualisation average, profits will reduce.
In many cases the annuity is guaranteed with-profits policyholders will bear the impact of any resulting payable for a fixed term usually five years even in the event of changes to charges.
Also FPLA closed fund with-profits death.
Many policies are written on joint lives so that when the first policyholders bear the full expense risk for the fund.
life dies the benefit continues, sometimes at a reduced level.
These features tend to reduce the volatility of results to random fluctuations Contractual terms for unit-linked and unitised with-profits products in experience but not the impact of a general increase in longevity.
include provision for increases in charges.
Certain expenses such as fees commissions are fixed at the time a contract is written.
If the Deferred annuities are contracts whereby there is a promise to pay a remaining renewal expenses were to increase by 10%, the impact on life annuity starting from a specified date in the future.
These policies post-tax profits and equity would be approximately 14m 2004: 11m.
are subject to a similar risk from the impact of longevity, the only difference being that the risk of adverse impact is greater given that c Credit risk the annuity is payable further into the future.
However, most of these policies are with-profits and the impact would be offset by a reduction Credit risk can be described as the risk of loss due to the default of in the FFA, with relatively little resulting impact on shareholder profits.
a company, individual or country, or a change in investors risk appetite.
It includes investment credit risk, derivative and A 5% reduction in annuitant mortality would reduce post-tax IFRS reinsurance counterparty risks, deposit and loan risks.
This takes into account the impact from increasing the provision for future mortality as well as The Life & Pensions business will take on investment credit risk and the impact from paying more annuity than expected.
A 5% increase loan risk when it is deemed financially beneficial to do so in support of in expected annuitant mortality would increase post-tax profit and the Groups strategic objectives eg on making an investment decision equity by 29m 2004: 24m.
These impacts assume that the between two corporate bonds of differing credit quality, the default risk reserving basis changes to reflect experience.
of the lower rated bond would be weighed up against the additional yield gained with a view to ensuring that the expected reward exceeds The impact of a mortality shock on term assurance business would the potential cost of the default risk.
F&C actively pursues credit risk in normally be at least partially offset by a favourable impact on the relation to the impact on management fees of credit events.
is averse to most other types of credit risk, in particular that related to the default of derivative counterparties, reinsurers and deposit takers.
ii Policyholder decision risk Persistency experience varies over time as well as from one type of To mitigate credit risk: contract to another.
Factors that will cause lapse rates to vary over Investment mandates for many funds will have a prescribed time include changes in investment performance of the assets minimum credit rating of bonds that may be held.
Investing in a underlying the contract where appropriate, regulatory changes that diverse portfolio reduces the impact from individual companies make alternative products more attractive, customer perceptions of defaulting.
the insurance industry in general and the Group in particular, and the Counterparty limits are set for investments, cash deposits, general economic environment.
foreign exchange trade exposure and stock lending.
All derivative transactions are covered by collateral and The immediate impact on IFRS profit of a change in lapse rates is derivatives are only taken out with counterparties with a suitable relatively small.
An increase in lapse rates will normally result in a credit rating.
small reduction in profit due mainly to eliminating the deferred The Group regularly reviews the financial security of its acquisition cost asset in respect of the insurance contracts that reinsurers.
However the impact is much smaller than the effect of other factors considered here.
Lapses have a more significant effect on In F&C, credit risk including derivative counterparty risk is managed the Groups other basis of measurement being EEV profit.
by the application of a strict investment policy designed to limit exposure to companies with poor credit ratings and to avoid undue The valuation of the Groups guarantees and options is described in investment with any single counterparty.
Regular meetings are held note 28.
As stated in that note, the cost of guaranteed annuity to consider credit developments and all credit exposures are options is dependent on decisions made by policyholders such as reviewed at least annually.
Collateral is not usually obtained for credit policy discontinuance and tax-free cash take-up.
These assumptions risk exposures on derivative instruments, except where margin are set by reference to recent experience.
deposits are required from counterparties.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 149 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 31.
Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating risks continued The Group is subject to the risk of increases in credit spreads reducing the value of corporate bonds.
Bases for valuing liabilities will reflect bond yields, reduced for default risk.
To the extent that the increase in credit spreads reflects an increase in actual default rates, this will result in a reduction in profits.
A 0.25% pa increase in average credit spread which is reflected by an increase in actual defaults will reduce post-tax profit and equity by 70m 2004: 59m.
Concentrations of credit risk might exist where the Group has significant exposure to an individual counterparty or to a group of counterparties with similar economic characteristics that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic and other conditions.
The Group has most of its counterparty risk within its Life & Pensions business.
As noted above this is monitored by the counterparty limits contained within the Groups investment guidelines, overlaid with regulatory requirements.
As at 31 December 2005, the Group had two counterparty exposures that exceeded the limits.
Management does not believe that the values of these holdings was such as to give rise to significant concentration of credit risk.
F&C is exposed to a concentration of credit risk to the extent of timing differences between the recognition of income for services rendered and the timing of receipt of management fees from clients.
The specific concentration of risk from clients where trade debtors and accrued income for any one client or group of connected clients is 1m or more at 31 December is as follows: 2005 2004 m m Amounts due from the Achmea group 6 7 Resolution Life plc 3 - RSA plc 1 3 OEICs: Management fees 3 3 13 13 Certain derivatives are subject to a legal right of set-off.
The amount disclosed in the balance sheet in respect of financial assets represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk.
An indication of the Groups exposure to credit risk is the quality of the investments and counterparties with which it transacts.
The Group is most exposed to credit risk on debt and other fixed income securities, derivative financial instruments, deposits with credit institutions, reinsurance arrangements and cash and cash equivalents.
Debt and other fixed income securities mainly comprise government bonds and corporate bonds.
Given the nature of the Groups investments in government bonds the credit risk associated with these is considered small and the Group therefore focuses on monitoring the quality of its corporate bonds.
The following table gives an indication of the level of creditworthiness of those categories of assets which are most exposed to credit risk using principally ratings prescribed by Standard & Poors and Moodys.
Assets held within unit-linked funds have been excluded from the table below as the credit risk on these assets is borne by the policyholders rather than the shareholders.
31 December 2005 AAA AA A BBB BB B Not rated Total m m m m m m m m Corporate bonds 2,952 1,900 2,810 703 - - 276 8,641 Derivative financial instruments - 24 225 - - - - 249 Reinsurance assets -26 157 - - - - 183 150 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005
