EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated accounts An explanation of how the transition to IFRS has affected the 1.
Accounting policies reported financial position and the financial performance of the Group, is provided on pages 169 to 176.
1.1 Basis of preparation These are the first full consolidated financial statements of the Group The Group presents its balance sheet broadly based in order of prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards liquidity.
Where applicable, for each asset and liability line item that IFRS, as adopted by the European Union and those parts of the combines amounts expected to be recovered or settled both within Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
and beyond 12 months after the balance sheet date, disclosure is The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the either made in the maturity tables in note 31 or in the respective line historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of property item note.
and equipment, investment properties and financial instruments at fair value through the income statement.
The financial statements also Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset, and the net comply with the revised Statement of Recommended Practice issued amount reported in the balance sheet only when there is a legally by the Association of British Insurers in December 2005 in so far as enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an these requirements do not contradict IFRS requirements.
The detailed intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle disclosure of new business does not form part of these accounts.
Income and expenses will not be offset in the income statement unless required or permitted by any The Group has chosen to early adopt the amendment to accounting standard or interpretation, as specifically disclosed in the International Accounting Standard IAS 19 Employee Benefits, accounting policies of the Group.
published in December 2004, as this more closely follows Financial Reporting Standard FRS 17 Retirement Benefits, which the Group The parent company has continued to present individual financial had previously adopted in full.
statements prepared on a UK GAAP basis as permitted by section 226A of, and Schedule 4 to, the Companies Act 1985, adopting the The Group has also adopted IAS 39 Financial Instruments: exemption of omitting the profit and loss account and related notes Recognition and Measurement, as amended by the Fair Value conferred by section 230 of that Act.
The parent company financial Option issued by the International Accounting Standards Board in statements, with its respective accounting policies, are presented on June 2005.
The Fair Value Option allows for any financial instrument pages 194 to 199. to be classified upon initial recognition at fair value through the income statement, if it satisfies one of the following criteria: The IASB issued IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures and an Amendment to IAS 1 in August 2005 and these are applicable for It eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
An caused by financial assets and financial liabilities being measured Amendment to IAS 39 IFRS 4 was also issued in August 2005 and is on a different basis.
applicable for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006.
In addition IFRIC interpretations 4, Determining whether an The financial instrument or group of financial instruments is arrangement contains a lease, 8, Scope of IFRS 2 and 9, managed individually or together on a fair value basis.
Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives, have been issued and will The financial instrument contains or may contain an embedded be effective for 2006 reporting.
The Group has decided not to early derivative.
adopt any of these standards in these financial statements, but the impact of adopting them is not expected to have a material effect on Previously recognised financial assets and financial liabilities can only its results.
IFRS 7 will result in amendments to disclosure of financial be designated at fair value through the income statement, if they assets and liabilities, whilst the amendments to IAS 1 bring the were already designated as such before 1 September 2005, under capital disclosure in line with IFRS 7.
The amendments to IAS 39 and the old fair value rules and subsequently still qualify under the new IFRS 4 have no impact on the Group given the nature of its business.
Comparative information must also be restated from Lastly, IFRS 6 and IFRIC Interpretations 5, 6 and 7 have been issued the transition date to comply with the new fair value rules.
The Group during 2005 but are not relevant to the activities of the Group.
has opted for the Fair Value Option as all financial assets are managed on a fair value basis.
1.2 Use of estimates, assumptions and judgements In addition, the Group has applied the principles contained in FRS 27 The preparation of the financial statements necessitates the use of Life Assurance, as an improvement to its accounting policies as estimates, assumptions and judgements.
These estimates and permitted by IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts.
This requires liabilities to assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and with-profits policyholders to be measured on a realistic basis in contingent liabilities at the balance sheet date as well as affecting accordance with the FSAs Realistic Balance Sheet RBS regulations.
the reported income and expenses for the year.
Although the estimates are based on managements best knowledge and The Group has prepared its financial statements under IFRS as judgement of information and financial data as at the date the adopted for use in the EU for the first time and consequently has financial statements are approved, the actual outcome may differ applied IFRS 1. from these estimates, possibly significantly, in future periods when subject to changes.
Further information on the use of estimates, assumptions and judgements is set out in note 2.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 71
