EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 42.
Contingent liabilities and commitments a Past sales The Group has made provision for the estimated cost of settling complaints in respect of past sales.
Although the provisions are regularly reviewed, the final outcome could be different from the provisions established as these costs cannot be calculated with certainty and are influenced by external factors beyond the control of management.
Such uncertainties include future regulatory actions, media attention and investment performance.
The majority of the uncertainty relates to endowment mortgages although a number of other products are being reviewed as an ongoing process.
It is expected that the majority of endowment cases requiring compensation will be settled in the next two years.
b VAT on investment trust management fees In a current European Court case, a UK investment trust is seeking to establish that management services to UK investment trusts should be a VAT exempt supply, rather than a taxable supply in accordance with current UK VAT law.
If this case were successful, a number of group companies, in common with other relevant fund managers in the UK, would face claims from those investment trusts to which they have supplied services for repayment of the VAT they have charged to them.
The AITC a party to the above litigation has indicated that it believes claims dating back as far as 1990 may be lodged with fund managers by investment trusts.
Companies in the F&C group can submit repayment claims to HM Revenue & Customs, but only dating back as far as 2001, being the maximum time period permitted.
F&C has begun to receive protective claims from a number of its investment trust clients and has lodged protective claims with HM Revenue & Customs.
At present, the directors of F&C are not able to judge the likelihood that the VAT court case will be successful, nor are they able to quantify the claims that may be received or the extent to which such claims could be mitigated and therefore, are not able to quantify the potential liability.
c F&C acquisition In December 2000, when Eureko BV acquired F&C Group Holdings Limited, approximately 73% of the issued ordinary shares of F&C Group Management Limited, a subsidiary company, were held in the form of two bearer share warrants which could not be located prior to the completion of the sale.
Eureko BV was indemnified by F&C Group Holdings Limited against any losses suffered as a result of the loss of the old share warrants or the issue of replacement share warrants.
Since a bearer share warrant issued by a company entitles the bearer to the shares specified in the share warrant, there is a risk that the third party holding the old share warrants may claim that it is entitled to the specified shares in F&C Group Management Limited.
If a third party were successful in establishing a claim in relation to the old share warrants, F&C Group Holdings Limited could be liable to indemnify F&C Group Management Limited under the original indemnity arrangements, which could have a material adverse effect on F&Cs business, results of operations and or financial condition.
Although there is a possibility that a third party may seek to establish that it is entitled to the shares specified in the old share warrants, the directors of F&C have been informed that Eureko BV has been advised that the prospect of a third party succeeding in such a claim is remote.
Under the terms of the 2004 merger between ISIS and F&C, Eureko Holdings has given a specific indemnity guaranteed by Eureko BV to F&C in respect of losses arising in relation to the lost share warrants to bearer in F&C Group Management Limited including in respect of the indemnity granted by F&C Group Holdings Limited to F&C Group Management Limited, which is capped at approximately 432m.
d Loan facility The company has given an undertaking to the F&C Board that in the unlikely circumstances that F&C is unable to refinance its 180m loan facility on normal commercial terms in the external market due to market or other factors at the time of refinancing, FP would be willing to provide either a facility or a bridging facility until such time as F&C refinances the loan.
e Operating leases where the Group is lessee The Group leases a number of properties under operating leases.
These leases typically run for a period of 50 years, with an option of renewal at the end of the lease.
Lease terms include annual escalation clauses to reflect current market conditions.
The future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable leases are as follows: 2005 2004 Land and Land and buildings Other Total buildings Other Total m m m m m m Within one year 347 336 Between one and five years 14 2 16 617 In more than five years 148 - 148 158 - 158 Total operating lease payables 165 6 171 167 4 171 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 159
