qxp 12 4 06 15:34 Page 2 Shareholder Information Shareholder enquiries To buy and sell shares You should contact the Registrar if you: By post: Lloyds TSB Registrars have any questions regarding your shareholding The Causeway have any questions regarding your dividend Worthing payments BN99 6DA If dealing by post you will need to complete a form have lost your Share Account Statement or share and send it to Lloyds TSB rather than just instruct certificate them in writing of your request.
The form is available have changed your name or address on our website www.
com or can be requested from the postal sharedealing helpline on wish to transfer your shares into someone elses 0870 606 0302 name or joint names By telephone: Registrar Lloyds TSB Registrars Lloyds TSB Registrars Telephone: 0845 300 2946 The Causeway Monday to Friday 8am to 6.00pm Worthing BN99 6DA Please have your Account Number and bank account details to hand Telephone: 0870 609 4534 Monday to Friday 8.30am to 5.30pm By internet: Website: www.
co. uk Lloyds TSB Registrars Shareview Dealing Service www.
com shareholderservices Please have your Account Number and bank account details to hand Latest share price information www.
com shareprice Dividend dates Shares go ex dividend 5 April 2006 Record date 7 April 2006 Final dividend paid 30 May 2006 Annual General Meeting 25 May 2006 Cautionary statement Certain statements contained in this document constitute forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Friends Provident plc, its subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings, from time to time, or industry results to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others, adverse changes to laws or regulations: risks in respect of taxation: unforeseen liabilities from product reviews: asset shortfalls against product liabilities: changes in the general economic environment: levels and trends in mortality and morbidity: restrictions on access to product distribution channels: increased competition: and the ability to attract and retain personnel.
These forward-looking statements are made only as at the date of this document and, save where required in order to comply with the Listing Rules, there is no obligation on Friends Provident plc to update such forward-looking statements.
4 Printed on FSC certified paper under Chain of Custody SGS-COC-0620.
The paper is Think bright which is produced with 100% ECF Elemental Chlorine Free pulp that is fully recyclable and contains fibre from well-managed forests independently certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship.
FSC Trademark 1996 Forest Stewardship Council.
Print by ISO 14001-certified Beacon Press.
Design and production by Flag Communications Friends Provident plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 FP COVERS.
qxp 12 4 06 15:59 Page 1 Friends Provident plc Pixham End Dorking, Surrey England RH4 1QA Tel: 0870 608 3678 Creatin www.
qxd 12 4 06 14:54 Page 3 R FRIENDS Creating value through values 2005 Annual Review for Shareholders 11519 Friends.
qxd 12 4 06 14:54 Page 4 2005 A year of significant progress on many fronts 2005 has proved to be another good year for the ongoing development of the Friends Provident Group.
We have continued to grow and diversify.
We now operate in more territories.
Our profits are significantly up.
We have once again attracted record levels of new life and pensions business, both in the UK and abroad, and have brought together two sizeable asset management businesses.
We continue to deploy technology innovatively.
We remain utterly focused on providing solutions that our customers value, coupled with service that stands out from the norm.
This success is a tribute to the skills and dedication of our people who really are making us different.
This leaflet provides a short overview of 2005, including the key financial results.
For more financial details, there is a Summary Financial Statement included in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, which is being held on 25 May this year.
If you are able to attend, I look forward to seeing you there.
Once again, I want to thank you all as shareholders for your continued support.
qxd 12 4 06 14:54 Page 1 Dividend rises to Shares rise 23% 7.7p per share in 2005 Dividend The total recommended dividend for 2005 is 7.7 pence per share.
We made an interim payment to shareholders of 2.6 pence per share last November.
The final dividend of 5.1 pence per share assuming it is approved at our Annual General Meeting on 25 May 2006 will be paid to shareholders on 30 May 2006.
The amount you will receive on 30 May 2006 will depend on the number of shares you own.
You can work out how much you will receive by multiplying the number of Friends Provident shares you own on 7 April 2006 by the final dividend of 5.1 pence per share that we are recommending.
The companys continued success has enabled us to increase your dividend every year.
2005 7.70p 2004 7.55p 2003 7.40p 2002 7.25p 2001 7.00p Annualised Friends Provident shares rise 23% The value of your Friends Provident shares increased 23% over 2005, rising from 154 pence at the beginning of the year to 189 pence at the end of 2005.
qxd 12 4 06 14:54 Page 5 2005 The first project funded by Friends Provident secures a the Friends Provident distribution agreement with Foundation commences.
Barclays Financial Planning, Banking Matters to Me is the 4th largest Financial focusing on the difficulties Adviser in the UK.
This was that people with a learning one of 22 new distribution disability are having in agreements established gaining access to banking with Friends Provident over services.
Lombard, based in F&Cs Ted Scott named as Luxembourg, joins the UKs No1 equity income Friends Provident fund manager in the Lipper Group, extending Citywire All Star Awards, our international for the investment returns reach still further.
delivered on our ethical Stewardship Income Fund.
Group highlights Significant increase in profits The success of Friends Provident in 2005 is reflected in our increased profits.
We report our profits on two different bases.
The European Embedded Value EEV basis is, we believe, more meaningful for our type of business and this is the one we focus on in our business.
The International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS basis is required under EU regulations and we therefore show both below.
The aim of the Friends Provident Group is to grow the value of the business and one important measure for this is Shareholders funds plus the market value of F&C see below.
F&C is our Asset Management company, and Shareholders funds, on the EEV basis, is a measure of the value of all the life and pensions business currently on our books, including the new business placed with us in 2005.
Our strategy for growing the value of the Friends Provident Group is centred around: providing our customers and their financial advisers with excellent service: using technology in a way that helps our customers and keeps our costs under control: focusing on markets which are profitable and where we can take a leading position: having a diversified business which is not over reliant on any one product or region: and having a professional and enthusiastic workforce that is eager and determined to succeed.
524m 367m 3.5bn EEV underlying profit IFRS profit from Shareholders funds before tax up 34% continuing operations plus market value Note 1 before tax up 66% of F&C up 12% Note 1 Underlying profit on an EEV basis represents profit based on expected investment return attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent before impairment of Asset Management goodwill, amortisation and impa Note 2 New business is now measured in terms of Present Value of New Business Premiums, which represents single premiums plus the expected present value of new business regular premiums.
Note 3 At the year-end funds under management included 20bn of Resolution Life funds which have been withdrawn during the first quarter of 2006.
Note 4 F&C underlying profit represents IFRS profit before amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles, restructuring costs and the costs of the Re-Investment plan.
In 2005 F&C incurred fund outflows which r JUNE MAY APRIL 11519 Friends.
qxd 12 4 06 14:54 Page 6 Sir Adrian Montague is appointed Chairman of the Friends Provident Group, succeeding David Newbigging OBE Friends Provident ranked 22nd who retired in May.
in the Sunday Times Top 100 Friends Provident Companies that Count based on attracts new an annual assessment by investors and raises Business in the Community.
500 million of new capital to help support further business Friends Provident growth.
voted Life Insurance Company of the Year at the Professional Pensions UK Pensions Award.
UK Life & Pensions highlights Many new distribution partners The UK life and pensions marketplace is very competitive and still adapting to rule changes affecting how financial products are sold.
One of these changes allows organisations that provide financial advice to recommend the products of only one life and pensions company or of a select few known as a multi-tie.
Over 2005, Friends Provident has been selected by many of these organisations as either their exclusive provider, or one of the companies they wanted to have on their multi-tie panels.
We have demonstrated time and again the superiority of our systems and service, and we are delighted to now include banks and building societies amongst our new partners.
These panel positions give us the opportunity to attract more new business in the future.
Our service has, for the second year running, attracted the highest 5 Star ranking in the largest annual survey of Independent Financial Advisers see November highlight above.
Although pleased to receive this recognition, we acknowledge that we operate in an industry not renowned for good service and we are therefore lifting our sights again.
We aspire to become the standard by which all providers are judged, and have embarked on a change programme that will focus on this challenge.
3,192m 64m 328m Life & Pensions new Contribution to profits EEV underlying profit business up 21% from new business before tax up 11% Note 2 Note 1 up 10% pected investment return attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent before impairment of Asset Management goodwill, amortisation and impairment of Asset Management acquired intangible assets, and non-recurring items.
New Business Premiums, which represents single premiums plus the expected present value of new business regular premiums.
esolution Life funds which have been withdrawn during the first quarter of 2006. on and impairment of acquired intangibles, restructuring costs and the costs of the Re-Investment plan.
In 2005 F&C incurred fund outflows which resulted in a 112 million impairment charge to intangible assets.
qxd 12 4 06 14:54 Page 7 Friends Provident was delighted to Friends Provident retains its support English cricket during the place as a member of the successful Ashes series.
Our prestigious Dow Jones pitch-side advertising boards were Sustainability World Indices seen by millions of TV viewers.
DJSI World represents the top 10% of companies across 34 countries and 58 industries assessed for their Group Chief Executive, leading position Keith Satchell, is in sustainability.
appointed Chairman of the Association of British Insurers ABI.
The ABI represents the collective interests of the UKs insurance industry and acts as an advocate for high standards of customer service.
International Life & Pensions highlights Good growth and an acquisition In January 2005, we completed the acquisition of Lombard, which specialises in providing financial solutions for very wealthy families a new market for us.
This acquisition was undoubtedly a highlight of the year, and Lombard has quickly become an established part of the Friends Provident Group.
Through Lombard, we now have another hub, in Luxembourg, to complement our Isle of Man-based international operations.
New international territories have opened up to us as a result.
Both Lombard and our existing international operations Friends Provident International achieved record sales in 2005.
Growth of our combined international operations has been rapid.
Last year, we predicted that about 35% of our total life and pensions new business in 2005 would come from the international cross-border market, compared with less than 10% in 2001, the year we became a listed company.
This turned out to be 41% and, more significantly, over half of our new business profits now derive from international cross-border business, for the first time in our history.
The prospects for further profitable growth remain good.
2,205m 80m 106m Life & Pensions new Contribution to profits EEV underlying profit business up 311% from new business before tax up 80% Note 2 Note 1 up 300% DECEMBER NOVEMBER OCTOBER 11519 Friends.
qxd 12 4 06 14:54 Page 8 Nomura, a leading Japanese investment bank, places its pension scheme with Friends Provident, the largest of Sales in the life and pensions the 1302 new schemes businesses hit a new record placed with us during high for the third consecutive 2005. year and funds managed by F&C exceed 130 billion.
Portman Building Friends Provident Society, the 3rd retains its 5 STAR largest in the UK, ranking for service in Our Stewardship Pension Fund selects Friends the annual Financial became Europe's first retail Provident for all its Adviser Practiv Service ethical fund to exceed 1 billion.
F&C and Friends Friends Provident manages more life protection Provident also awarded 5 ethical investments for individual insurances.
STAR rankings for customers than any other Investment.
Asset Management highlights Successful merger integration The merger at the end of 2004 of ISIS with F&C was the biggest transaction in the asset management industry in the world that year.
The integration timetable we set ourselves was challenging but has been broadly achieved, enabling the Group to benefit from synergy savings which will rise to 33 million in 2006 and annually thereafter.
Although integration activities dominated 2005, they were organised in such a way as to allow the business to remain focused on investment performance.
The merger itself, supplemented by people recruited since then, has strengthened significantly our capabilities for providing superior investment performance and that remains our aim.
It was clearly a disappointment that the merger of Resolution Life with Britannic resulted in F&C losing the mandate to manage some 25 billion.
This is always a potential outcome of a consolidating marketplace.
However the significant growth of F&C over recent years has given it the scale to absorb this loss without serious long-term implications.
131bn 44% 108m Funds under Operating margin Underlying profit management up 5% 2004 34% before tax up 170% Note 3 Note 4
