EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 28.
Insurance contracts a Changes in insurance contracts liabilities Insurance contracts and investment contracts with a DPF element are measured using the same accounting policies.
These are consistent with those previously adopted under MSS, as allowed under IFRS 4, and amended following the adoption of the principles contained in FRS 27.
Investment contracts with DPF are mainly unitised with-profits contracts.
The following table shows the movements in insurance contracts liabilities in the year: 2005 2004 m m At 1 January 14,047 13,500 Increase in liability from premiums 883 807 Release of liability due to recorded claims 1,513 1,358 Unwinding of discount 206 192 Change in assumptions: Economic 256 111 Non-economic 172 61 Other movements including net investment return 930 856 At 31 December 14,637 14,047 A liability adequacy test was carried out at policy level and resulted in no additional provision in either 2004 or 2005.
No significant gain or loss arose on reinsurance contracts incepted in either 2004 or 2005.
It should be noted that changes in the economic assumptions will be largely offset by corresponding changes in the assets backing the liabilities.
In addition, assumption changes on with-profits contracts will result in changes in the FFA, and not in retained earnings.
The non-economic change in 2004 includes a 43m reduction in liabilities in respect of modelling improvements to the realistic balance sheet of FPLPs with-profits business.
In 2005 it includes a 41m reduction as a result of more accurate modelling of the Guaranteed Annuity Option take-up rate in the Realistic Balance Sheet and a 68m reduction as a result of receiving confirmation that rules in PS05 01 relating to surrender payments do not override the Scheme of Demutualisation.
The main changes included within other movements are: the investment return credited to asset shares and unit-linked liabilities.
the release of liability due to assured lives surviving, when the basis assumed that a proportion of them die, and the annuity claims cease.
b Terms and conditions of insurance contracts The main types of insurance contracts that the Group currently has in force are: i Life Protection business other than whole life products these consist mainly of regular premium term assurance, critical illness and income protection products, which pay out a fixed amount the sum assured on ill health or death.
For most policies this payout will be a single amount, whereas income protection products provide a regular income upon incapacity either for the length of illness or to the end of the contract if earlier, depending on the specific policyholder terms.
Most contracts have no surrender value.
Endowments and whole life products these contracts both provide benefits upon death or, in the case of endowments, at a preset maturity date if earlier.
These policies often have a surrender value, particularly in the later years of the contract.
The amount payable on death is subject to a guaranteed minimum amount.
The maturity value usually depends on the investment performance of the underlying assets.
For with-profits business it is underpinned by a minimum guarantee, which may be increased by the addition of bonuses.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 133 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued methodology takes into account risks and uncertainties of the 28.
Insurance contracts continued particular classes of long-term business written and the results are certified by the professionals undertaking the valuations.
ii Pensions Individual and group pensions those contracts classified as insurance Calculations are generally made on an individual policy basis, contracts are deferred annuity products where retirement benefits are however in addition there are some global provisions which are expressed in the form of the annuity payable at retirement age.
If calculated using statistical or mathematical methods.
The results are death occurs before retirement, contracts generally return the value of expected to be approximately the same as if an individual liability the fund accumulated or in some cases premiums are returned.
was calculated for each long-term contract.
Most contracts give the policyholder the option at retirement to take For the conventional with-profits business in FPLP, including unitised a cash sum at guaranteed conversion rates.
with-profits business, the liabilities are determined on a realistic basis and in accordance with the principles contained in FRS 27.
The Annuities in payment these are typically single premium products, main element of the realistic liabilities is the asset shares of withwhich pay a specified payment to the policyholder whilst they and or profits business, representing the premiums received to date their spouse are still alive.
Payments are generally either fixed or together with the investment return earned less expenses and increased each year at a specified rate or in line with the rate of charges.
These asset shares move with the value of the underlying inflation.
Most contracts guarantee an income for a minimum period assets.
Policyholder liabilities, including options and guarantees usually of five years, irrespective of death.
arising in the With Profits Fund, are then valued on a marketconsistent stochastic basis.
The main types of guarantees and iii Guarantees and options options within the With Profits Fund are guarantees in respect of The main guarantees and options included within the Groups bonus additions and guaranteed annuity options.
The calculation of insurance contracts, the majority of which arise within FPLPs With liabilities and management actions that would be taken in certain Profits Fund, are as follows: scenarios is also in accordance with FPLPs Principles and Practices of Financial Management PPFM and are set out in more detail in Guaranteed cash and annuity options most conventional deferred note 29 on the Realistic Balance Sheet.
annuity contracts have benefits expressed in terms of cash and annuity with a guaranteed conversion rate, allowing the policyholder For the conventional with-profits business in FPLA which is closed the option of taking the more valuable of the two at retirement.
to new business, the liabilities are determined using a net premium valuation method.
The majority of options or guarantees arising Guarantees in respect of bonus additions bonuses added to withwithin this fund are valuable to the policyholder and are valued on a profits policies increase the guaranteed minimum benefit that deterministic basis as if the guarantee is taken up.
policyholders are entitled to at maturity.
These are set at a level that takes account of expected market fluctuations, such that the cost of Single premium group income protection contracts have been the guarantee is generally met by the investment performance of valued as 90% of the last three years premiums plus an allowance the assets backing the liability.
However in circumstances where for outstanding claims in respect of earlier premiums.
there has been a significant fall in investment markets, such as that which occurred in 2001 to 2003, the guaranteed maturity benefits The calculation of liabilities to policyholders in respect of most other may exceed asset shares and these guarantees become valuable to non-profit policies, which consists principally of protection and the policyholder.
annuity products, has been valued using a gross premium method.
Guaranteed surrender bases certain older products have a The provision for linked contracts meeting the definition of insurance guaranteed basis for calculating surrender values.
In all these cases is equal to the value of units plus a sterling reserve where the basis includes an element of final bonus which can be reduced necessary.
The sterling reserve is equal to the maximum value of or taken away.
The guaranteed basis typically applies over a period future strains due to future cash outflows premium allocations, of 15 years but in most cases policies are approaching the end of expenses, claims and tax being greater than future cash inflows this period.
The effect of the guaranteed surrender basis is to extend premiums, investment income and charges.
the guarantee in respect of bonus additions to apply over an extended period and not just at the maturity date.
Where reinsurance relates to individual policies they are valued using the same method and basis as if they were the direct benefit.
An c Method used for reserving for both insurance asset is established representing the fact that the reinsurance will contracts and investment contracts with DPF reduce the net cost of the policy to the Group.
The liability for insurance contracts and unitised with-profits contracts is calculated on the basis of recognised actuarial methods having due regard to actuarial principles and best practice.
The 134 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 28.
Insurance contracts continued d Process used for assumptions i Economic assumptions Details regarding the economic assumptions used in the stochastic model for the valuation of with-profits policyholders liabilities are set out in note 29.
For other insurance liabilities and unitised with-profits contracts within the FPLA fund, economic assumptions are the same as those used for reporting to the FSA under the regulatory peak.
Economic assumptions are adjusted from year to year by reference to changes in consistent economic indices or yields on the underlying portfolio.
The principal assumption is the valuation interest rate.
ii Non-economic assumptions The provision for insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF liabilities is sensitive to the principal assumptions in respect of mortality, morbidity and maintenance expenses except for net premium valuations, persistency and guaranteed annuity option take-up rates, although the relative sensitivity will vary depending on the class of long-term business.
Long-term estimates of future mortality and morbidity assumptions are based on standard tables wherever possible but adjusted to reflect the Groups own experience.
Where appropriate industry tables are not available and the Groups experience is insufficient to derive a reliable basis eg for critical illness the experience of reinsurers is used.
Expense assumptions are based on recent experience.
Experience investigations for mortality, morbidity, persistency, guaranteed annuity option take-up rates and maintenance expenses are performed at least annually.
Where industry analysis indicates that changes in expected future mortality morbidity or other assumptions factor patterns mean that claim costs are likely to rise in the future, then this is taken into account in the valuation basis.
No benefit is taken where industry analysis indicates that future trends are likely to reduce claim costs in the future.
Improving mortality has been assumed when valuing annuities and deteriorating morbidity has been assumed when valuing critical illness business.
Assumptions are generally intended to be a prudent estimate of future experience.
e Valuation interest rates for policies other than conventional with-profits business in FPLP Valuation interest rates With-profits Non-profit 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 2005 2004 Class of business % % % % Life Fund: Endowment and whole-of-life 2.7 2.9 2.9 3.1 Protection - - 2.9 3.1 Pension Fund: Annuities in payment - - 4.0 4.5 Individual and group pensions 3.4 3.7 3.6 3.9 Protection - - 3.6 3.9 Income protection - - 3.4 3.9 As explained in c above, FPLP conventional with-profits business is valued in accordance with the FSAs realistic capital regulations.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 135 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 28.
Insurance contracts continued f Mortality morbidity rates Insurance liabilities allow for mortality and morbidity risk by making assumptions about the proportion of policyholders who die or become sick.
Allowance for future mortality and sickness has been made using the following percentages of the standard published tables below: 2005 2004 Term assurances: Smoker 100% TM92 5 115% TM92ult 110% TF92 5 120% TF92ult Non-smoker 65% TM92 5 60% TM92ult 85% TF92 5 65% TF92ult Other life assurances 80% AM F80ult 80% AM F80ult Unitised life policies 80% AM F80ult 80% AM F80ult Pension policies 35% AM F80ult 35% AM F80ult Individual annuities: in payment 75% RM FV92U2005 75% RM FV92U2004 Group annuities: in payment 95% PM FA92U2005 95% PM FA92U2004 Plus additional 0.25% per annum and 0.5% per annum for individuals and group males only respectively from 31 December 2003 onwards.
Income protection sickness experience is based on recent experience with a 10% margin for recovery rates, and a 39% margin for inception rates 2004: 16% margin over earlier experience.
Rates differentiate by smoker status.
g Increase decrease in pre-tax shareholder profit from changes in assumptions 2005 2004 m m Mortality and morbidity 20 13 Other non-economic assumptions 58 15 Total assumption changes 38 28 This table shows the effect on pre-tax profit of the changes in assumptions described above.
i Impacts are reduced to allow for with-profits policyholders sharing in the profits and losses of some products see h. ii Changes in the economic assumptions will be largely offset by corresponding changes in the assets backing the liabilities.
h Apportionment of surplus between shareholders and with-profits policyholders Shareholders are entitled to 100% of surplus emerging from companies within the Group, with the exception of surplus emerging in the two with-profits funds.
i The Groups main With Profits Fund is within FPLP, and is open to new business.
The Fund is run on a mutual basis and managed so that over time the working capital is sufficient to provide most of the risk capital but not to exceed the risk capital margin.
The entitlements of shareholders to share in surplus differ for policies written before and after demutualisation 9 July 2001.
In respect of pre-demutualisation conventional with-profits policies, shareholders are entitled to one ninth of the cost of bonuses added to policies.
In respect of pre-demutualisation non-profit and unitised business excluding the investment element, shareholders are entitled to 60% of the surplus arising.
Post-demutualisation with-profits policyholders are only entitled to surplus from the return on their investments: other sources of surplus are wholly owned by shareholders including policies written by FPLA and Friends Provident Pensions Limited, where the investment element is reinsured to the FPLP With Profits Fund.
136 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005
