DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORTS The With-Profits Committees WPCs of the Life and Pensions operating companies surrender values and the principles underlying the bonus Purpose and Terms of Reference declarations made in February and August 2005 and January 2006.
The purpose of the WPCs is to bring some independent judgement to i the assessment of compliance of each Life and The WPCs also reviewed the content and quality of communications Pensions operating company with its published Principles and to policyholders, in particular on the introduction of consumer friendly Practices of Financial Management PPFM, and ii how any delivery of the PPFM.
A number of special projects, which potentially competing or conflicting rights and interests of policyholders and, affected the interests of both with-profits policyholders and if applicable, shareholders have been addressed.
In neither case shareholders, were completed during the year.
The most important of does this take away any responsibility or accountability from the these projects were i a review of the changes to the PPFM made as Boards of the relevant companies.
This purpose is reflected in a result of the introduction of the FSAs policy statement Treating each WPCs written Terms of Reference which are published on With-Profits Policyholders Fairly: ii the introduction of target ranges the Companys website and can be obtained on written request to for policy payouts as required by that policy statement: iii a review of the Secretary at the Companys registered office.
The Terms of investment strategy to allow better matching of the guarantees in the Reference are subject to annual review by the WPCs.
With-Profits portfolios: and iv a review of proposals to sell part of FPLPs property portfolio to a new listed investment trust.
Membership and operations The WPCs are chaired by one of the Companys independent nonThe WPCs reviewed these and other proposals in accordance with executive directors, currently Alison Carnwath.
The other members their Terms of Reference, assessed and confirmed that the are Peter Nowell independent external member and Graham Aslet proposals were in compliance with the appropriate PPFM and, former Director and Appointed Actuary.
All three served effectively, treated customers fairly.
Any issues arising from these throughout the year.
The WPCs met eight times during 2005, with reviews were debated within the WPCs and, in some cases, with all members present on every occasion.
other members of senior management of the relevant life and pensions subsidiaries.
The WPCs have made recommendations to During the year, the operation of the WPCs was reviewed by the the life and pensions operating companies Boards that resulted in Companys Internal Audit function following which minor changes changes being made by the Boards to the original proposals.
were made to the WPCs administrative procedures.
Activities and work of the WPCs During the year, the WPCs reviewed the operating companies published PPFMs, and the main areas of discretion allowed by the PPFMs.
In particular, they reviewed the principles by which costs and benefits were shared between shareholders and with-profits policyholders, the principles impacting the distribution of surplus For the Board from the FPLP Non Profit Fund to the Shareholder Fund, the Alison Carnwath, Chairman, With-Profits Committees.
appropriateness of a change in the mix of assets backing the FPLP 10 April 2006 With-Profits Fund, the application of Market Value Reduction Factors often called MVRs, the basis used for determining Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 55
