EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Notes to IFRS reconciliations The MSS balance sheet has been presented in a format consistent 5.
No changes have been made to the previously reported Revenue deferral adjustment is made up of the following: MSS numbers.
IFRS reclassification The deferred acquisition cost asset has been reduced on investment In accordance with IFRS 4, investment contracts are not treated as contracts, as only incremental acquisition costs ie commissions can insurance contracts.
Amounts previously recognised as income and be deferred under IFRS.
Under MSS, non-incremental acquisition expenses are eliminated from the income statement and investment costs eg salaries could be deferred.
IFRS allows this only for contract liabilities are shown separately from insurance contract insurance contracts, which continue to be measured under existing liabilities on the balance sheet.
This asset reduction reduces the amortisation charge from deferred acquisition cost on in-force business, however this is offset Linked assets have also been reclassified into the relevant balance by a greater increase to expenses because costs in respect of new sheet headings and deposits with credit institutions realisable within business that were deferred under MSS are not deferred under IFRS.
3 months are treated as cash and cash equivalents.
Investment valuation The Group now sells relatively few products with front-end fees.
The Under IAS 39 Financial instruments, recognition and measurement positive impact on the income statement reflects the reversal of prior all of the Groups investments are valued at fair value.
The standard years deferral which exceeds the negative effect of new business.
requires fair values for listed investments to be calculated on a bid basis rather than the mid basis used for some of the Groups assets 6. Dividend recognition under MSS.
This change in the valuation is largely offset by a In accordance with IAS 10 Events after the balance sheet date, corresponding change to the insurance and investment liabilities.
proposed dividends declared after the balance sheet date are no longer treated as a liability.
Consolidation of additional entities IFRS requires the consolidation of special purpose vehicles such as 7.
Valuation of investment contracts open-ended investment companies, limited partnerships and private The adjustment is largely the result of the reduction under MSS of equity companies that were not consolidated under MSS.
The actuarial liabilities in respect of capital units effectively capitalising requirement for consolidation of such entities arises from a broader future annual management charges.
IFRS does not allow this definition of when an entity is considered to be under the control of treatment.
In addition, sterling reserves are eliminated as the cash an investor.
flows used in the sterling reserves calculation are used under IFRS within the IFRS deferred acquisition cost recoverability test.
Overall, Consolidation of special purpose vehicles has resulted in an increase sterling reserves are positive ie increase the liability.
Therefore the in total assets of 827m, and liabilities of 889m, including third elimination of sterling reserves reduces the liability, offsetting the party interests in open ended investment companies of 576m increase from the capital units adjustment.
disclosed as net assets attributable to unit holders.
In addition, a deficit of 62m attributable to minority interests in private equity 8.
FRS 27 companies is included within equity.
The increase in profit after tax The Group has adopted the principles contained in FRS 27 Life is attributable to minority interests.
assurance, as an improvement to its current accounting policies, as permitted under IFRS 4 Insurance contracts.
This has resulted in the 4. Business combinations FPLP With Profits Fund being stated in the balance sheet on a The Business combinations adjustment is made up of the following: realistic basis.
These adjustments have no impact on net shareholders funds or profit before tax.
Reversal of amortisation of goodwill: In accordance with IAS 38 Impairment of assets, goodwill is no longer 9.
Convertible bonds amortised, but is instead subject to an annual impairment review.
Under IFRS, the convertible bonds are separated into a liability, measured at amortised cost, and an embedded derivative, being the Recognition of intangible assets: option to convert to equity.
An additional liability arises from the Intangible assets such as distribution lists and acquired Present embedded derivative, due to the option of the issuer to settle in Value of In-Force PVIF business have been recognised on cash.
As an embedded derivative the liability must be separately acquisitions under IFRS with a corresponding reduction in goodwill included at fair value.
A deed poll election, effective May 2005, previously recognised under MSS.
All intangible assets are grossed enabled the option to be classed as equity thereby eliminating the up for the tax amortisation benefit.
need to fair value thereafter.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 175
