EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Transitional arrangements on first-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Companies are required to apply their IFRS accounting policies retrospectively to determine IFRS opening balance sheets and comparative figures.
However, IFRS 1 First-Time Adoption of IFRS, provides a number of exemptions to this general principle.
The Group has not taken advantage of the exemptions to retrospective application and has applied all relevant standards retrospectively with three exceptions: The Group has elected to apply IFRS 3 Business combinations, retrospectively to business combinations effected from 9 July 2001, the date of demutualisation, to the date of transition from Modified Statutory Solvency MSS basis to IFRS.
The Group has elected to apply the IFRS 1 exemption relating to foreign exchange translation differences as a result of which the cumulative translation differences for all foreign operations are deemed to be zero at the date of transition to IFRS.
The Group has elected not to apply IFRS 2 to share options that were granted before 7 November 2002 and to share options granted after 7 November 2002 that had vested at the date of transition to IFRS.
The Group has also elected not to apply the exemption from disclosure for comparative periods permitted within IFRS 4 Insurance contracts, IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations, IAS 32 Financial instruments: disclosure and presentation and IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement.
Also, where estimates had previously been made under MSS, consistent estimates after adjustments to reflect any difference in accounting policies have been made for the same date on transition to IFRS ie judgements affecting the Groups opening balance sheet have not been revisited for the benefit of hindsight.
The Group first published its results under IFRS on 12 September 2005 when it issued its 2005 Interim Report and Accounts.
Certain assumptions on IFRS treatments have since been reviewed with the result that the 2004 IFRS results have subsequently been amended.
The principal change relates to the treatment of STICS as described in Note 10 to the IFRS reconciliations.
In addition there were a number of balance sheet and income statement reclassifications, none of which impacted the overall profit or shareholders funds.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 169
