EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated accounts An explanation of how the transition to IFRS has affected the 1.
Accounting policies reported financial position and the financial performance of the Group, is provided on pages 169 to 176.
1.1 Basis of preparation These are the first full consolidated financial statements of the Group The Group presents its balance sheet broadly based in order of prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards liquidity.
Where applicable, for each asset and liability line item that IFRS, as adopted by the European Union and those parts of the combines amounts expected to be recovered or settled both within Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
and beyond 12 months after the balance sheet date, disclosure is The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the either made in the maturity tables in note 31 or in the respective line historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of property item note.
and equipment, investment properties and financial instruments at fair value through the income statement.
The financial statements also Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset, and the net comply with the revised Statement of Recommended Practice issued amount reported in the balance sheet only when there is a legally by the Association of British Insurers in December 2005 in so far as enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an these requirements do not contradict IFRS requirements.
The detailed intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle disclosure of new business does not form part of these accounts.
Income and expenses will not be offset in the income statement unless required or permitted by any The Group has chosen to early adopt the amendment to accounting standard or interpretation, as specifically disclosed in the International Accounting Standard IAS 19 Employee Benefits, accounting policies of the Group.
published in December 2004, as this more closely follows Financial Reporting Standard FRS 17 Retirement Benefits, which the Group The parent company has continued to present individual financial had previously adopted in full.
statements prepared on a UK GAAP basis as permitted by section 226A of, and Schedule 4 to, the Companies Act 1985, adopting the The Group has also adopted IAS 39 Financial Instruments: exemption of omitting the profit and loss account and related notes Recognition and Measurement, as amended by the Fair Value conferred by section 230 of that Act.
The parent company financial Option issued by the International Accounting Standards Board in statements, with its respective accounting policies, are presented on June 2005.
The Fair Value Option allows for any financial instrument pages 194 to 199. to be classified upon initial recognition at fair value through the income statement, if it satisfies one of the following criteria: The IASB issued IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures and an Amendment to IAS 1 in August 2005 and these are applicable for It eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
An caused by financial assets and financial liabilities being measured Amendment to IAS 39 IFRS 4 was also issued in August 2005 and is on a different basis.
applicable for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006.
In addition IFRIC interpretations 4, Determining whether an The financial instrument or group of financial instruments is arrangement contains a lease, 8, Scope of IFRS 2 and 9, managed individually or together on a fair value basis.
Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives, have been issued and will The financial instrument contains or may contain an embedded be effective for 2006 reporting.
The Group has decided not to early derivative.
adopt any of these standards in these financial statements, but the impact of adopting them is not expected to have a material effect on Previously recognised financial assets and financial liabilities can only its results.
IFRS 7 will result in amendments to disclosure of financial be designated at fair value through the income statement, if they assets and liabilities, whilst the amendments to IAS 1 bring the were already designated as such before 1 September 2005, under capital disclosure in line with IFRS 7.
The amendments to IAS 39 and the old fair value rules and subsequently still qualify under the new IFRS 4 have no impact on the Group given the nature of its business.
Comparative information must also be restated from Lastly, IFRS 6 and IFRIC Interpretations 5, 6 and 7 have been issued the transition date to comply with the new fair value rules.
The Group during 2005 but are not relevant to the activities of the Group.
has opted for the Fair Value Option as all financial assets are managed on a fair value basis.
1.2 Use of estimates, assumptions and judgements In addition, the Group has applied the principles contained in FRS 27 The preparation of the financial statements necessitates the use of Life Assurance, as an improvement to its accounting policies as estimates, assumptions and judgements.
These estimates and permitted by IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts.
This requires liabilities to assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and with-profits policyholders to be measured on a realistic basis in contingent liabilities at the balance sheet date as well as affecting accordance with the FSAs Realistic Balance Sheet RBS regulations.
the reported income and expenses for the year.
Although the estimates are based on managements best knowledge and The Group has prepared its financial statements under IFRS as judgement of information and financial data as at the date the adopted for use in the EU for the first time and consequently has financial statements are approved, the actual outcome may differ applied IFRS 1. from these estimates, possibly significantly, in future periods when subject to changes.
Further information on the use of estimates, assumptions and judgements is set out in note 2.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 71 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued The consolidated financial statements incorporate the assets, 1.
Accounting policies continued liabilities, results and cash flows of the company and its subsidiaries.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during the 1.3 Summary of significant accounting policies period are included in the consolidated results from the date of The Group has identified accounting policies that are most significant acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
Intra-group balances and to its business operations and the understanding of its results.
any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising These accounting policies are those which involve the most complex from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the or subjective decisions or assessments, and relate to insurance and consolidated financial statements.
investment liabilities, deferred acquisition costs, pension schemes, the ascertainment of fair values of reinsurance assets, financial Profits or losses arising from changes in holdings in subsidiaries that instruments and of investment properties and the carrying value of do not impact the Groups control over that subsidiary are intangible assets.
The accounting policies set out below have been consistently b Associates and joint ventures applied to all years presented in these consolidated financial Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant statements and, unless otherwise stated, to the opening IFRS influence but not control, generally reflecting between 20% and balance sheet as at 1 January 2004.
In preparing the Groups 50% of the voting rights, over the financial and operating policies.
opening balance sheet, it has not taken advantage of the Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity method of exemptions to retrospective application as set out in IFRS 1 and has accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups applied all relevant standards retrospectively with three exceptions: investment in associates includes goodwill net of any impairment loss identified on acquisition.
the Group has elected to apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations retrospectively to business combinations effected from 9 July Joint ventures are those entities where the terms of the contractual 2001, the date of demutualisation.
agreement ensure that the parties involved jointly control the entity, the Group has elected to apply the IFRS 1 exemption relating to notwithstanding that the Groups share of the underlying assets and foreign exchange translation differences.
As a result the liabilities may be more than 50%.
The Group recognises its interests cumulative translation differences for all foreign operations are in joint ventures using the equity method.
deemed to be zero at the date of transition to IFRS.
the Group has elected not to apply IFRS 2 to share options that Under the equity method, an investment is included as a single line were granted before 7 November 2002 and to share options item in the consolidated balance sheet as the Groups share of the granted after 7 November 2002 that had vested at the date of fair value of the investment net assets plus goodwill, which equates transition to IFRS.
to the cost of the investment plus the Groups share of postacquisition reserves.
The Groups share of post-tax profits or losses 1.3.
1 Consolidation is presented as a single line item in the consolidated income A business combination is the bringing together of separate entities statement, adjusted for the effect of any fair value adjustments.
or businesses into one reporting entity.
The result is that one entity, the acquirer, obtains control of one or more entities or businesses.
c Open ended investment companies and unit trusts Open ended investment companies and unit trusts in which the The cost of a business combination is measured as the fair value of Group has a percentage holding in excess of 50% have been the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or consolidated.
The units not owned by the Group are treated as a assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to liability called net asset value attributable to unit holders.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities reason for this treatment is that the open ended nature of these and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are funds means that units in the funds have no residual interest in the measured initially at their fair values at the business combination net assets of the funds after deducting all of the liabilities.
date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of the business combination over the fair value of the 1.3.
2 Product classification Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as a Insurance contracts goodwill.
If the cost of the business combination is less than the fair Contracts under which the Group accepts significant insurance risk value of the net assets, the difference is recognised directly in the from another party the policyholder, by agreeing to compensate the income statement.
policyholder if a specified uncertain future event the insured event adversely affects the policyholder, are classified as insurance a Subsidiaries contracts.
Under IFRS 4, insurance risk is risk other than financial Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power, risk.
Financial risk is the risk of a possible future change in one or directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies so more of: a specified interest rate, security price, commodity price, as to obtain economic benefits, generally accompanying a foreign exchange rate, index of price or rates, a credit rating or credit shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
Potential index or other variable.
Insurance contracts may transfer some voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are also financial risk.
72 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued loss is recognised directly in equity.
Conversely, when a gain or loss 1.
Accounting policies continued on a non-monetary item is recognised in the income statement, any exchange component of that gain or loss is recognised in the income Once a contract has been classified as an insurance contract, it statement.
Foreign exchange adjustments recognised in equity are remains an insurance contract for the remainder of its lifetime, even reported in the Groups foreign currency translation reserve within if the insurance risk reduces significantly during this period.
As a retained earnings and reported in the statement of recognised general guideline, the Group defines as significant insurance risk the income and expense.
possibility of having to pay benefits on the occurrence of an insured event that is more than 5% greater than the benefits payable if the b Overseas subsidiaries insured event did not occur.
The assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries, including goodwill and intangible assets attributable to the acquisition of the overseas b Investment contracts subsidiary, and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are Policyholder contracts not considered insurance contracts under translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance IFRS are classified as investment contracts.
The revenues and expenses of overseas subsidiaries are classified as investment contracts are either unit-linked or unitised translated to sterling at average foreign exchange rates for the year.
Foreign exchange differences arising on the translation to sterling are classified as equity movements and recognised in the Groups foreign c Options and guarantees currency translation reserve and reported in the statement of Options and guarantees are valued separately unless the option or recognised income and expense.
These exchange differences are guarantee itself meets the definition of an insurance contract, or it is recognised in the income statement in the period in which the a policyholder option to surrender an insurance contract for a fixed overseas subsidiary is disposed of.
amount even if the exercise price differs from the carrying amount of the host contract.
5 Revenue recognition For options and guarantees separated from the host contract, the a Premiums Group measures them at fair value and includes the change in fair Premium income in respect of single premium business, new value in the income statement on the same basis as for its other generation group pensions business and pensions business not embedded derivatives.
subject to contractual regular premiums, is accounted for when the premiums are received.
3 Segment reporting For all other classes of business, premium income is accounted for A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in in the year in which it falls due.
providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are different to those of other business segments.
A Reinsurance premiums are accounted for when due for payment.
geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment that is subject to risks and b Fee and commission income and income from service activities returns that are different to those of segments operating in other Insurance and investment contract policyholders are charged for economic environments.
policy administration services, investment management services and for surrenders.
Investment management services comprise primarily Segments are selected with regard to how management reviews fees and charges from unit-linked investment contracts issued by the Groups operations and the relevant size of the underlying the Life & Pensions business.
Fees earned by the Asset business segment or geographical area.
Further details of the Management business relate to the sale and management of retail segments selected by the Group are included in note 3. investment products and from managing investments in the institutional market.
4 Foreign currencies a Foreign currency transactions These fees and charges are recognised as revenue in the accounting The Groups presentation currency is pound sterling.
Transactions period in which the services are rendered, unless they relate to in foreign currencies are translated to sterling at the foreign exchange services provided in future periods.
rates ruling at the dates of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date Front-end fees are charged to the policyholder at the inception of the are translated to sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the balance contract.
This is primarily used for single premium contracts.
The sheet date, and any exchange differences arising are taken to the consideration received is deferred as a liability and recognised over income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at the expected term of the contract on a straight-line basis.
historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction and are not subsequently restated.
Regular fees charged to the policyholder periodically monthly, Non-monetary assets and liabilities stated at fair value in a foreign quarterly or annually, are recognised on a straight-line basis over the currency are translated at the rate at the date the fair value was period in which the service is rendered.
When a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised directly in equity, any exchange component of that gain or Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 73 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued d Finance lease payments 1.
Accounting policies continued Finance lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability.
The finance In respect of Asset Management a number of contracts have charge is allocated to each year of the lease term so as to produce a performance fees based on an agreed level of performance in a set constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the time period.
Performance fees are recognised when the quantum of liability.
Finance charges are recorded in the income statement under the fee can be estimated reliably.
c Investment income e Investment properties related expenses All income received from investments is recognised in the income Expenses with regards to investment properties are treated as statement and includes dividends, interest, rental income, gains and administrative expenses and are recognised when incurred.
losses arising from a change in fair value of investment properties, financial assets at fair value through the income statement and of 1.3.
7 Intangible assets derivative financial instruments.
a Goodwill Dividend income from listed and unlisted securities is recognised as Goodwill arising on business combinations is the future economic revenue when the right to receive payment is established.
For listed benefits arising from assets that are not capable of being individually securities this is the date the security is listed as ex-dividend.
For identified and separately recognised.
unlisted securities this is the due date of payment.
Where the initial amount of goodwill can only be determined on a Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, provisional basis at the end of the financial reporting period, taking into account the effective yield of the asset or an applicable adjustments are made to the amount of goodwill up to 12 months floating rate.
Interest income includes the amortisation of any from the date of acquisition.
Other adjustments to the amount of discount or premium.
goodwill are made for amounts that are contingent on future events and on the realisation of potential benefits of the acquirees tax Rental income from investment properties under operating leases is losses carried forward and other deferred tax assets that did not recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the satisfy the criteria for separate recognition on acquisition.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease income.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be 1.3.
Goodwill is carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment losses are recorded in the income statement.
a Claims and benefits paid Insurance claims reflect the cost of all claims incurred during the b Investment management contracts year, including claims handling costs.
Death claims and surrenders Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial are recorded on the basis of notifications received.
Maturities and recognition at cost.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a annuity payments are recorded when due.
Claims and benefits business combination is the fair value as at the date of acquisition.
recorded are accrued to the policyholder and included within Following initial recognition intangible assets are carried at cost less insurance and investment contracts liabilities.
accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The useful lives of investment management contracts are finite and Claims handling costs include internal and external costs incurred in are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated average connection with the negotiation and settlement of claims.
Internal contract term, depending on the nature of the contract, with costs include all direct expenses of the claims department and any amortisation being charged to the income statement.
The general administrative costs directly attributable to the claims function.
amortisation period is reviewed at each financial year-end.
The estimated useful lives have been assessed as follows: Reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same period as the related claim.
Investment trusts 20 years Insurance 10 years b Finance costs Institutional 10 years Finance costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which Retail 10 years they are incurred.
Investment management contracts are reviewed at each reporting c Operating lease payments date to identify whether there are any circumstances that might Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the indicate impairment.
If such circumstances exist, the carrying value income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
is adjusted to the recoverable amount and any resulting impairment Lease incentives paid are recognised in the income statement as an losses are charged to the income statement.
integral part of the total lease expense.
74 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued Subsequent expenditure on other intangible assets is capitalised 1.
Accounting policies continued only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is Subsequent expenditure on management contracts is capitalised expensed as incurred.
only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is e Impairment expensed as incurred.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated from the acquisition date to each c Present value of acquired in-force business PVIF of the Groups cash generating units or groups of cash generating On acquisition of a portfolio of insurance contracts or investment units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the contracts, either directly or through the acquisition of a subsidiary combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the undertaking, the net present value of the Groups interest in the Group are assigned to those units or groups of units.
Each unit or expected pre-tax cash flows of the in-force business is capitalised in groups of units to which goodwill is so allocated: the balance sheet as an intangible asset.
That part of the Groups interest, which will be recognised as profit over the lifetime of the represents the lowest level within the Group at which the in-force policies, is amortised and the discount unwound goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes: and systematically over the anticipated lives of the related contracts, is not larger than either of the Groups primary or secondary which typically vary between 5 and 50 years.
segments used for segment reporting.
The PVIF is reviewed at each reporting date to identify whether Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of there are any circumstances that might indicate impairment.
If such the cash generating unit to which the goodwill relates.
Where the circumstances exist, the carrying value is adjusted to the recoverable recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the amount and any resulting impairment losses are charged to the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
forms part of a cash generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation d Other intangible assets disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when Distribution lists, brands and licences acquired are capitalised at determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill historical cost, being the fair value of the consideration paid.
disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash Acquired software is capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to generating unit remaining.
Similarly, when a business is disposed of, acquire and to bring in use.
the carrying value of the goodwill attributed to that business is included in the calculation of the gain or loss arising on disposal.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable The recoverable amount of an intangible asset or a cash generating and unique software products controlled by the Group and that will unit is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are year, are capitalised and recognised as an intangible asset.
Direct discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that costs include the software development team's employee costs and reflects a current market assessment of the time value of money and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
All other costs the risks specific to the intangible asset or the cash generating unit.
associated with developing or maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
For any previously recognised impairment loss a reversal can only occur if there has been a change in the estimate used to determine Other intangible assets have finite useful lives and are carried at cost the recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
If that is the case, the carrying amount is increased to calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost over its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the the estimated useful lives of the intangible asset as follows: carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised in prior years.
Such reversal is Distribution lists 1015 years recognised in the income statement unless the asset is carried at a Brands 10 years revalued amount, in which case the reversal is treated as a Software 3 years revaluation increase.
After such a reversal, the amortisation or Licences 35 years depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a Other intangible assets are reviewed at each reporting date to systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
An impairment loss in identify whether there are any circumstances that might indicate respect of goodwill is not reversed.
If such circumstances exist, the carrying value is adjusted to the recoverable amount and any resulting impairment losses are charged to the income statement.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 75 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each reporting date 1.
Accounting policies continued and adjusted if appropriate.
8 Property and equipment d Derecognition or disposal a Owned assets An item of property and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or Land and buildings are initially recognised at cost and subsequently when no further future economic benefits are expected from its use.
Revaluations are performed annually by Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the independent valuers, who hold a recognised and relevant difference between the net disposal proceeds and the original cost of professional qualification and have recent experience in the location the asset is included in the income statement in the year the asset is and category of properties being valued.
Any revaluation reserves relating to the particular asset with sufficient regularity such that the carrying amount does not being disposed of or no longer in use is transferred to retained differ materially from that which would be determined using fair earnings.
This is not applicable to items that still have a useful life but values at the balance sheet date.
The fair value is the amount for are currently classified as idle.
Depreciation continues for these items.
which a property could be exchanged between knowledgeable and willing parties in an arms length transaction.
9 Investment properties Properties occupied by the Group are held at fair value on the basis Investment properties comprise land and or buildings that are not of open market value at the date of revaluation.
Revaluation occupied by the companies in the Group and are held either to earn surpluses are credited to the revaluation surplus in shareholders rental income or for capital appreciation, or for both.
Decreases that offset previous increases of the same asset are charged against the revaluation surplus directly to equity: all The Group has adopted the fair value model permitted by IAS 40 other decreases are charged to the income statement.
Accordingly, investment property is initially included in the balance sheet at cost and subsequently measured at Equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and its fair value, which is supported by market evidence, based on impairment losses.
Impairment reviews take place when events or annual valuations by independent valuers who hold a recognised and changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not relevant professional qualification and have recent experience in the be recoverable.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income location and category of investment property being valued.
is the amount for which a property could be exchanged between knowledgeable and willing parties in an arms length transaction.
Property and equipment initial cost includes transaction costs.
The Movements in the fair value of investment properties are taken to Group recognises in the carrying amount of an item of property and the income statement in the period in which they arise.
equipment the cost of replacing part of such item when the cost is incurred, if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied Initial cost includes transaction costs.
The Group recognises in the with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be carrying amount of the item of invertment property the cost of measured reliably.
All other costs are recognised in the income replacing part of such an item when the cost is incurred, if it is probable statement as incurred.
that the future economic benefits embodied with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other b Leased assets costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to When an item of property accounted for under IAS 16 Property, the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
plant and equipment, is transferred to investment property following a change in its use, any differences arising at the date of transfer Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the between the carrying amount of the item immediately prior to Group at their fair value at the date of acquisition or, if lower, at the transfer and its fair value, are recognised directly in equity if it is a present value of the minimum lease payments, less accumulated fair value gain.
Upon disposal of the item the gain is transferred to depreciation.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in retained earnings.
Any loss arising in this manner is recognised the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
immediately in the income statement.
c Depreciation If an investment property becomes owner occupied, it is reclassified Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost or fair value of an as property under IAS 16 and its fair value at the date of asset net of the estimated residual value, using the straight-line reclassification becomes its cost for accounting purposes.
method, over the estimated useful life of each part of an item of property and equipment, as follows: Motor vehicles 34 years Computer hardware and related software 14 years Fixtures, fittings and office equipment 310 years Leased assets Over the term of the finance lease 76 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded 1.
Accounting policies continued derivative would meet the definition of a derivative: and the hybrid instrument is not measured at fair value with changes 1.3.
10 Fair values of financial instruments in fair value recognised in the income statement.
Fair value determinations for financial instruments are either based on market prices bid price for assets and offer price for liabilities at the b Loans close of business on the balance sheet date for listed instruments in Loans are financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are active markets or broker or dealer price quotations.
not quoted in an active market.
Loans are measured on initial recognition at the fair value of the consideration given plus incremental If prices are not readily available, the fair value is based on valuation costs that are incurred on the acquisition of the investment.
techniques including reference to current market values of another Subsequent to initial recognition, loans are measured at amortised cost instrument which is substantially the same.
Certain financial using the effective interest rate method.
instruments, including financial derivative instruments, are valued using pricing models that consider, among other factors, contractual The amortised cost of loans is the present value of estimated future and market prices, correlation, time value of money, credit risk, yield cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
The curve volatility factors and or prepayment rates of the underlying amortised cost is reviewed for impairment whenever events or positions.
The use of different pricing models and assumptions circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be could produce materially different estimates of fair values.
Any resulting impairment loss is recorded in the income statement.
If the value of equity instruments cannot be reliably measured, they are measured at cost.
12 Deferred acquisition costs For both insurance contracts and investment contracts with 1.3.
11 Financial assets Discretionary Participation Features DPF, acquisition costs The Group classifies its investments into the following two comprise all direct and indirect costs arising from writing the categories: financial assets at fair value through the income contracts, which are incurred during a financial period.
Costs are statement and loans.
The classification depends on the purpose for deferred to the extent that they are recoverable out of future which the investments were acquired or originated.
The rate of amortisation of deferred acquisition costs on such contracts is proportional to the future margins emerging in Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade respect of the related policies, over the lifetime of those policies.
date, ie the date the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Purchases or sales of financial assets require delivery of assets For investment contracts without DPF, and for Asset Management within the time frame generally established by regulation or service contracts, deferred acquisition costs comprise all incremental convention in the marketplace.
costs that are directly relating to the writing of the contract, which are incurred during a financial period and are deferred to the extent that A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual right to receive they are recoverable out of future margins.
Such deferred acquisition cash flows expires or when the asset, together with substantially all costs are amortised uniformly over the lifetime of the policy.
the risks and rewards of ownership, has been transferred.
Annual impairment reviews are performed to identify whether there a Financial assets at fair value through the income statement are any circumstances that might indicate impairment.
If such These investments are financial assets designated on initial circumstances exist, the carrying values are adjusted to the recognition at fair value through the income statement.
The fair value recoverable amounts and any resulting impairment losses are on initial recognition being the consideration given, excluding any charged to the income statement.
transaction costs directly attributable to their acquisition.
Subsequent to initial recognition, all such financial assets are measured at fair 1.3.
Movements in fair value are taken to the income statement in Direct insurance business written is ceded to reinsurers under the period in which they arise.
These financial assets include contracts to transfer risk.
Reinsurance arrangements do not relieve derivative financial instruments held for trading purposes.
the Group from its direct obligations to policyholders.
Reinsurance assets primarily include balances due from both insurance and Embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract reinsurance companies for the ceded insurance liabilities.
Amounts including embedded derivatives in insurance contracts, recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent recognised as a stand alone derivative financial instrument and with the outstanding claims provisions or settled claims associated measured at fair value through the income statement, when the with the reinsured policies and in accordance with the relevant following conditions are met: reinsurance contract.
Amounts due to reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the associated reinsured policies and in the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded accordance with the reinsurance contract.
Premiums ceded and derivatives are not closely related to the economic claims reimbursed are presented on a gross basis.
characteristics and risk of the host contract: Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 77 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 1.3.
Accounting policies continued Insurance and other receivables are recognised when due and Contracts that do not give rise to a significant transfer of insurance measured on initial recognition at the fair value of the amount risk to the reinsurer are considered financial reinsurance and are receivable plus incremental costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, accounted for and disclosed in a manner consistent with financial receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective instruments.
Where a contract can be separated into distinct and interest rate method.
separate elements, these elements are accounted for separately.
The carrying value of receivables is the present value of estimated If there is objective evidence as a result of an event that occurs after future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
the initial recognition of the reinsurance asset, the amount The carrying value is reviewed for impairment whenever events or recoverable under the terms of the reinsurance contract will not be circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recovered from the reinsurer, the amount recognised as recoverable recoverable, with the impairment loss recorded in the income under reinsurance ceded is reduced accordingly and the impairment statement.
loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss 1.3.
14 Taxation decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event a Corporation tax occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously The tax expense as disclosed on the face of the income statement recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of represents the sum of current year corporation tax, the movement in an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement, to the deferred tax and adjustments to prior periods tax.
extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
Taxation is based on profits and income for the period as determined in accordance with the relevant tax legislation, together with adjustments 1.3.
16 Cash and cash equivalents to provisions for prior periods, except where it relates to an item which Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call is recognised in equity.
Tax payable is calculated using tax rates that with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
maturities of three months or less, and bank overdraft facilities.
The tax charge is analysed between tax in respect of income and 1.3.
17 Insurance contracts investment return on the policyholders interest in the with-profits Insurance contracts are measured using accounting policies and linked fund assets, representing policyholders' tax, with the consistent with those previously adopted under the Modified balance being tax on equity holders investment return and profits, Statutory Solvency MSS basis, as amended following the adoption representing shareholders' tax.
of the principles contained in FRS 27 Life assurance.
b Deferred tax The insurance contract liabilities are determined separately for each Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on life operation following an annual investigation of the long-term differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in funds.
The liabilities are calculated in accordance with the relevant the financial statements and the corresponding tax basis used in the Financial Services Authority FSA rules contained in the Integrated computation of taxable profit.
This is accounted for using the Prudential Sourcebook for UK operations.
For overseas operations, balance sheet liability method and the amount of deferred tax insurance contract liabilities are calculated on recognised actuarial provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or principles, based on local regulatory requirements.
The valuations settlement of the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities.
The are subject to adjustments to reflect relevant accounting tax rates used are the rates that have been enacted or substantially requirements as set out below.
The annual investigation is carried enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxation is recognised in the income statement for the period, except to the extent that it is attributable to a gain or loss For the conventional with-profits business in Friends Provident Life and that is recognised directly in equity.
In this case the gain or loss is Pensions Limited FPLP, the liabilities to policyholders are determined shown net of the attributable deferred tax.
in accordance with the Realistic Balance Sheet RBS regulations and in accordance with the principles contained in FRS 27.
These liabilities Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable include both declared and constructive obligations for future bonuses temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the not yet declared excluding the shareholders share of future bonuses extent that it is probable that taxable future profits will be available and includes the cost of options and guarantees measured on a market against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
The RBS basis of valuation does not recognise deferred acquisition costs, but allows for future profits of non-profit and The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each unit-linked business written in the With Profits Fund to be recognised.
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient future taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
78 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued Investment contracts with DPF held within the FPLP and FPLA with- 1.
Accounting policies continued profits funds are measured on a basis that is consistent with a measurement basis for insurance contracts held within those funds.
The calculation of the liabilities to policyholders in respect of conventional with-profits in Friends Provident Life Assurance Limited Balances representing eligible surplus that has not yet been FPLA, is on a net premium basis and in accordance with the MSS allocated to shareholders, or policyholders with DPF contracts, have basis.
These liabilities include an implicit provision for future regular been retained as a policyholders liability.
bonuses, but not final bonuses, by means of a reduction in the valuation interest rate and an assessment of options and guarantees 1.3.
19 Fund for future appropriations FFA on a deterministic basis.
Within FPLP, the insurance and investment contracts liabilities allow The calculation of liabilities to policyholders for non-profit contracts is for discretionary benefit allocations to the extent that they are on a gross premium basis and in accordance with the MSS basis.
allowed within current bonus practices.
The FFA represents working These liabilities include explicit allowance for future expenses.
capital and the value of future transfers to shareholders from the With Profits Fund in respect of discretionary bonuses for conventional The provision for insurance contract liabilities can never be definitive with-profits business.
as to the overall level of liabilities or their timing and is subject to regular reassessment.
Within FPLA, the FFA represents the value of future final bonus payments to policyholders.
The Group carries out an annual liability adequacy test on its insurance liabilities less related deferred acquisition costs and other 1.3.
20 Interest bearing loans and borrowings related intangible assets to ensure that the carrying amount of its Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, which is generally liabilities is sufficient in the light of estimated future cash flows.
the cash consideration received, net of transaction costs incurred, Where a shortfall is identified, an additional provision is made.
and subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the redemption value is 1.3.
18 Investment contracts recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings, using the effective interest rate method.
Currently investment contracts are either classified as unit-linked or contracts with DPF mainly unitised with-profits contracts.
Convertible bonds that can be converted to share capital at the option of the holder, where the number of shares issued does not A unit-linked investment contract is recognised at fair value through vary with changes in their fair value, are accounted for as compound the income statement.
The fair value is calculated as the number of financial instruments.
Compound financial instruments are split and units allocated to policyholders in each of the unit-linked funds recorded respectively within each of its two components, equity and multiplied by the unit price of those funds at the balance sheet date.
The equity component of the convertible bonds is calculated The fund assets and liabilities used to determine the unit prices at as the excess of the issue proceeds over the present value of the the balance sheet date are valued on a basis that is consistent with future interest and principal payments, discounted at the market rate their measurement basis in the consolidated Group balance sheet, of interest applicable to similar liabilities that do not have a adjusted to take account of the effect on the liabilities of discounting conversion option.
The equity component is recognised and included for the time value of future tax on unrealised gains on assets held in in shareholders equity, net of tax effects.
The fair value of the the fund.
Provision is made for renewal commissions at the liability component is recorded on an amortised cost basis until inception of an investment contract as intermediaries are not extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bonds.
required to perform any service once the policy is incepted.
The interest expense recognised in the income statement under Unitised with-profits investment contracts are measured using Realistic finance costs, is calculated using the effective interest rate method.
Balance Sheet principles as amended by FRS 27.
Interest accrued on variable rate interest bearing loans and borrowings is recognised under insurance payables, other payables A contract with DPF is a contractual right held by a policyholder to and deferred income and not in the carrying value of interest receive, as a supplement to guaranteed minimum payments, bearing loans and borrowings.
additional payments: that are likely to be a significant portion of the total contractual payments, whose amount or timing is contractually at the discretion of the issuer and that are contractually based on: - the performance of a specified pool of contracts, or a specified type of contract, - realised and or unrealised investment returns on a specified pool of assets held by the issuer, or - the profit or loss of the company that issues the contracts.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 79 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued Past service costs, which relate to employee service in prior 1.
Accounting policies continued periods arising in the current period as a result of the introduction of, or improvement to, retirement benefits.
21 Provisions are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis A provision is recognised when the Group has a present legal or over the period in which the increase in benefits vest.
constructive obligation, as a result of a past event, which is Settlements or curtailments, which are recognised in the income probable, will result in an outflow of resources and where a reliable statement to the extent that they are not allowed for in the estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
If the effect actuarial assumptions.
Losses on settlements or curtailments are is material, the provision is determined by discounting the expected measured at the date on which the employer becomes future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects a current market demonstrably committed to the transaction.
Gains on assessment for the time value of money and, where appropriate, the settlements or curtailments are measured at the date on which risks specific to the liability.
all parties, whose consent is required, are irrevocably committed.
Net expected return on pension assets comprises the The Group recognises the provision for onerous contracts when the expected return on the pension scheme assets less interest expected benefits to be derived from contracts are less than the on scheme liabilities.
unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contracts.
The actuarial gains and losses, which arise from any new valuation 1.3.
22 Insurance payables, other payables and deferred income and from updating the latest actuarial valuation to reflect conditions Insurance and other payables are recognised when due and at the balance sheet date, are taken to the statement of recognised measured on initial recognition at the fair value of the consideration income and expense for the period.
The adjustment is shown net of paid.
Subsequent to initial recognition, payables are measured at deferred taxation.
amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
ii Defined contribution schemes Fees charged for services to be provided in future periods, are Contributions made to these schemes are charged to the income deferred and recognised in the income statement on a straight line statement as they become payable in accordance with the rules of basis as the services are provided over the expected term of the the scheme.
Deferred income fees are held equal to the difference between the fair value of the contribution received and the value of iii Multi-employer defined benefit schemes the units allocated to the policyholder incorporating an appropriate The Group participates in several multi-employer defined benefit allowance for lapses.
These schemes are defined benefit schemes but the Group is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and 1.3.
23 Employee benefits liabilities as they are not seperately identifiable.
The Group accounts a Pension obligations for the contributions to the schemes in the same manner as defined i Defined benefit schemes contribution schemes.
Pension schemes are in operation for employees of certain subsidiary undertakings.
The principal schemes, to which the iv Other long-term employee benefits majority of employees belong, are of the funded defined benefit Other long-term employee benefits are recognised at the discounted type with assets managed by F&C Asset Management plc F&C, a present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet subsidiary undertaking.
The schemes provide benefits based on final date.
The obligation is calculated using the unit credit method.
The assets of the schemes are held in separate discounted rate of the employees benefits is the yield at balance trustee administered funds.
The pension liability recognised in the balance sheet is the present v Termination benefits obligation of the employer, which is the estimated present value of Termination benefits are recognised as a liability and an expense future benefits that employees have earned in return for their when the Group terminates the employment of an employee before services in the current and prior years, less the value of the plan the normal retirement date.
The discounted rate of the employees benefits is the appropriate AA corporate bond yield at the balance b Share based payment schemes sheet date.
A qualified actuary performs the calculation annually using The company and certain subsidiary undertakings offer share based the projected unit credit method.
The pension costs for the schemes payment schemes to employees of the Group, depending on are analysed into: eligibility.
The fair value of these equity-settled share based payments is measured at the grant date and expensed on a straightCurrent service cost, which is the actuarially calculated present line basis over the vesting period in the income statement.
value of the benefits earned by the active employees in each period.
80 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005
