FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS Notes to the EEV results the net pension liability of FPPS on an IAS 19 basis but including 1.
Methodology holdings in non-transferable securities issued by the Group both net of deferred tax : 1.1 Basis of preparation a provision for future corporate costs: The EEV results presented in this document have been prepared in the present value of future profits attributable to shareholders accordance with the European Insurers Chief Financial Officers from existing policies of the Life & Pensions business.
Forums EEV Principles issued in May 2004 and the Additional Guidance issued in 2005.
They provide supplementary information The shareholders net worth includes the corporate debt of the Group.
for the year ended 31 December 2005.
This debt is valued at market value, consistent with the EEV guidance.
The comparative figures for 31 December 2004 were presented in EEV and other balance sheet items denominated in foreign the EEV restatement on 12 October 2005.
Certain comparatives currencies have been translated to sterling using the appropriate have been restated to ensure consistency in preparation and closing exchange rate.
The new business contribution and other presentation of these results.
income statement items have been translated using an average exchange rate for the relevant period.
The EEV basis of reporting is designed to recognise profit as it is earned over the term of the policy.
The total profit recognised over 1.2 Covered business the lifetime of the policy is the same as that recognised under the The covered business incorporates the Life & Pensions business IFRS basis of reporting, but the timing of recognition is different.
defined as long-term business by UK and overseas regulators.
The reported embedded value provides an estimate of the value of F&C is not included in the definition of covered business.
shareholders interest in the covered business, excluding any value that may be generated from future new business.
This value 1.3 Allowance for risk comprises the sum of the shareholders net worth, the provision for future corporate costs and the value of existing business.
The The allowance for risk in the shareholder cash flows is a key feature shareholders net worth is the net assets attributable to of the EEV Principles.
The EEV guidance sets out three main areas shareholders, and is represented by the sum of required capital and available to allow for risk in an embedded value: free surplus.
The value of existing business is the present value of the projected stream of future distributable profits available to the risk discount rate: shareholders from the existing business at the valuation date, on a the allowance for the cost of financial options and guarantees: best estimate basis allowing for risk, adjusted for the cost of holding the cost of holding both prudential reserves and any additional required capital.
The supplementary information should be read in conjunction with The market-consistent approach has been used to allow for risk in all the Groups IFRS results.
These contain information regarding the three areas.
Groups financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and adopted 1.4 Deriving risk discount rates for use in the EU.
A market-consistent embedded value has been calculated for each product line by valuing the cash flows in line with the prices of The EEV principles have been followed in respect of non-covered similar cash flows traded on the open market.
In other respects the IFRS basis of reporting has been applied unless the EEV principles dictate otherwise.
In particular the In principle, each cash flow is valued using the discount rate principles have been applied to reflect Step-up Tier one Insurance consistent with that applied to such a cash flow in the capital Securities STICS as debt rather than as equity.
For example, an equity cash flow is valued using an equity risk discount rate, and a bond cash flow is valued using a bond risk In addition, a pro forma embedded value is reported showing discount rate.
If a higher return is assumed for equities, the equity ordinary shareholders funds on an EEV basis adjusted to include cash flow is discounted at this higher rate.
the F&C listed subsidiary at market value.
In practice, for liabilities where the payouts are either independent or Shareholders net assets on an EEV basis for the Group consist move linearly with market movements, a method known as the of the following: certainty equivalent approach has been applied whereby all assumed assets are assumed to earn the risk-free rate and all cash Life & Pensions net assets: flows are discounted using the risk-free rate.
This gives the same the Groups share of its investment in the Asset Management result as applying the method in the previous paragraph.
business including the net pension liability on an IFRS basis: corporate net liabilities: 182 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Notes to the EEV results continued 40m 2004: 44m market risk and 35m 2004: 33m non-market 1.
The non-market risks include lapses, annuitant longevity, and operational risk within the With Profits Fund.
The allowance for nonA market-consistent cost of financial options and guarantees and a market risks is made by consideration of the impact of extreme market-consistent cost of holding required capital have also been scenarios from our economic capital model.
The cost of financial options and guarantees includes additional allowance for non-market risk within the With Profits Significant amounts of new with-profits business are no longer Fund.
An additional provision has been made for operational risks.
written and the guarantee levels offered are lower, hence there is no These are described in more detail below.
material impact of the burn-through cost in the contribution to profits of new business.
For presentational purposes, a set of risk discount rates has been derived for each product line, and for in-force and new business, by 1.6 Required capital and the cost of capital calculating the risk discount rate under a traditional embedded value approach that gives the same value as that from the marketRequired capital is set at the greater of regulatory capital and consistent embedded value determined above.
These derived risk economic capital.
Regulatory minimum capital includes prudent discount rates are a function of the assumptions used eg equity risk reserves as well as solvency margin.
Economic capital is determined premium, corporate bond spreads.
However, as the marketfrom internal models, based on the companys risk appetite.
consistent approach is used, these assumptions do not impact the level of embedded value: a higher equity risk premium results in an At a product level economic capital requirements are higher than exactly compensating higher risk discount rate.
regulatory capital requirements for with-profits and annuity business, and lower than regulatory capital requirements on unit-linked and 1.5 Financial options and guarantees protection business.
In aggregate, the economic capital requirements are higher than regulatory requirements by The material financial options and guarantees are those in the approximately 100m 2004: 100m.
Friends Provident Life and Pensions Limited FPLP With Profits Fund, in the form of the benefits guaranteed to policyholders and Capital requirements under EEV amounted to 551m 2004: the guaranteed annuity rates associated with certain policies.
This included shareholder assets required to support the With Profits Fund.
The risk to shareholders is that the assets of the With Profits Fund are insufficient to meet these guarantees.
While shareholders are For new business, regulatory capital requirements are higher than entitled to only a small share of profits in the With Profits Fund via economic capital requirements, given the high proportion of unitone ninth of the cost of bonus, they can potentially be exposed to linked and protection new business, and the contribution to profits the full cost if fund assets are insufficient to meet policyholder from new business is therefore based on regulatory capital guarantees.
The time value cost of this asymmetry, known as the requirements.
burn-through cost, is modelled stochastically, as it will only occur in some adverse scenarios.
The burn-through time value cost is The EEV includes a deduction for the cost of holding the required calculated as the difference between the average value of capital.
Frictional costs, being the tangible costs of holding capital, shareholder cash flows under a number of market-consistent have been allowed for on a market-consistent basis.
These consist scenarios, and the intrinsic shareholder value using risk-free of the total taxation and investment expenses incurred on locked-in assumptions included within the deterministic model.
shareholder capital and reflect the cost to an investor of holding an asset through investment in a life company, rather than investing in The burn-through cost has been assessed using a stochastic model the asset directly.
derived from the current Realistic Balance Sheet RBS model.
This model has been calibrated to market conditions at the valuation No adjustment has been made for any agency cost, this date.
Allowance has been made under the different scenarios for representing the potential markdown to value that investors will management actions, such as altered investment strategy, apply because they do not have direct control over their capital.
Any consistent with the RBS model.
The burn-through cost would be adjustment would be subjective and different investors will have markedly higher without the hedging activities undertaken.
their own views of what adjustment, if any, should be made.
Whilst the EEV guidance suggests that, as a minimum, allowance is made in the cost of financial options and guarantees for stochastic variation in future economic conditions, we have also allowed for variation in non-market risks, as these risks can also serve to increase the burn-through cost.
The burn-through cost at 31 December 2005 of 75m 2004: 77m, is split between Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 183 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS Notes to the EEV results continued b Service costs 1.
Methodology continued Service company costs are included in the EEV expense assumption 1.7 Non-market risk calculations.
Included within these are the fees charged by F&C for investment management services to the covered Life & Pensions An investor can diversify away the uncertainty around the return on business.
non-market risks, such as mortality and expenses.
Hence in a shareholder valuation the allowance for non-market risk is made F&C service fee profits in respect of covered Life & Pensions through the appropriate choice of best estimate experience business are not capitalised under the EEV methodology, as F&C is assumptions and the impact of non-market risks on the level, and a separate business segment within the Group and the arrangement hence the cost, of capital.
between F&C and the Life & Pensions business is on an arms length basis.
Instead, these profits, approximately 15m 2004: 11m In choosing best estimate assumptions the allowance for non-market are brought into the consolidated income statement on an IFRS risk has been reviewed.
However, best estimate assumptions may basis, and F&C is brought into the pro forma embedded value at fail to represent the full impact on shareholder value where the market value.
impact of fluctuations in experience is asymmetric: that is where adverse experience has a higher impact on shareholder value than Productivity gains have been assumed within the EEV in respect of favourable experience.
The areas identified as having such International business.
The Lombard EEV has been reduced by 8m asymmetries are the burn-through cost and operational risk.
2004: 8m for a projected expense overrun for the period 2006- 2009 and a lower rate of expense inflation has been assumed for The impact of variations in non-market risks have been taken into Friends Provident International Limited business.
These allow for account in the burn-through cost calculation.
This allows for anticipated future productivity gains as these businesses grow.
asymmetries arising from the profit sharing mechanism.
1.9 New business In addition, a provision of 87m 2004: 50m has been set up for operational risks in the shareholders funds.
This provision has been New business within the covered business includes: calculated by comparing the mean impact of variations in operational risk, as modelled in the economic capital calculations, with the premiums from the sale of new contracts: existing allowance for operational risk in specific accounting payments on recurring single premium contracts, including provisions and embedded value projection assumptions.
Department for Work and Pensions rebate premiums, except existing stakeholder-style pensions business where, if a regular This provision of 87m is equivalent to a 0.4% 2004: 0.4% increase pattern in the receipt of premiums for individuals has been in the risk discount rate for UK Life & Pensions business and 0.8% established, the regular payment is treated as a renewal of an 2004: 0.8% for International Life & Pensions business, recognising existing contract and not new business: the higher operational risks in international business.
This impacts non-contractual increments on existing policies: both embedded value and the contribution from new business.
new entrants in the group pensions business.
1.8 Expenses The EEV guidance requires companies to actively review expense assumptions, and include an allowance for holding company corporate costs and service company costs.
a Corporate costs Corporate costs relate to those costs incurred at the corporate level that are not directly attributable to the Life & Pensions or the Asset Management businesses.
Under EEV methodology, corporate costs are classified as either ongoing costs or development and one-off costs.
For 2005, 6m 2004: 6m of corporate costs were regular ongoing corporate costs and 6m 2004: 4m were development or one-off costs.
The ongoing costs have been capitalised under EEV.
The impact is a provision of 47m 2004: 48m.
184 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005
