EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Notes to the EEV results continued 3.
Life & Pensions EEV profit a Contribution from new business The contribution from new business is calculated using economic assumptions at the beginning of the period.
The contribution from new business using end-of-period economic assumptions was 143m 2004: 79m.
Derived risk discount rates for new business have been based on end-of-period economic assumptions.
The contribution from new business is quoted after cost of required capital and share incentives.
The table below gives the contribution before cost of capital and share based payments.
2005 2004 m m Contribution from new business before cost of capital and share based payments 152 86 Cost of share based payments 2 2 Cost of capital 6 6 Contribution from new business 144 78 b Profit from existing business Life & Pensions Profit from existing Life & Pensions business comprises the expected return on the value of in-force business at the start of the period plus the impact of any changes in the assumptions regarding future operating experience, changes in the reserving basis other than economic assumption changes and profits and losses caused by differences between the actual experience for the period and the assumptions used to calculate the embedded value at the end of the period.
The expected return on the value of in-force business is the difference between the expected return on the assets backing the liabilities and the expected change in the market-consistent value of the liabilities.
Effectively, this approach is similar to applying an unwind in the risk discount rate to the value of the in-force business at the beginning of the year.
However, the risk discount rate to be used is a rate appropriate over the period of return only, which is not necessarily equal to the overall in-force risk discount rate averaged across all future durations above.
c Development costs Life & Pensions Development costs represent investments made to improve future EEV profits, for example by reducing expenses or increasing future new business volumes.
In particular, the Life & Pensions costs represent investment in developing advanced electronic trading systems, e-commerce related activities, and new business service automation and improvement.
d Expected return on shareholders net assets The expected return on shareholders net assets held within the Life & Pensions business comprises the return on the shareholders net assets held by the life assurance companies within that business, using the investment return assumptions used to calculate the embedded value at the beginning of the period.
The expected return on corporate net assets is the longer-term investment return on assets held by Friends Provident plc and its non-life subsidiaries.
It excludes the expected return on the net pension liability and the result of the F&C business, which are shown separately in the summary consolidated income statement.
e Investment return variance The split of the investment return variance in the Life & Pensions EEV profit is shown in the table below: 2005 2004 m m In respect of net assets at the start of year 84 25 Value of in-force business 373 119 Investment return variance after tax 457 144 Investment return variance before tax 641 204 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 187
