EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Notes to the EEV results continued 7.
EEV assumptions continued 7.3 Other assumptions Other assumptions are regularly reviewed having regard to past, current and expected future experience, and any other relevant data.
These are set so as to be best estimate assumptions.
The assumed rates of mortality, morbidity, lapse, surrender, conversion to paid-up and early retirement, which are reviewed annually, have been derived from analyses of the Groups recent operating experience and industry studies.
In particular, improvements in annuitant mortality have been assumed to follow the medium cohort for males and 75% of this for females.
Allowance for commission is based on the Groups recent experience.
Sensitivity analysis The table below shows the sensitivity of the embedded value and the contribution from new business to changes in assumptions for 2005.
For each sensitivity other future experience assumptions remain unchanged, except where changes in economic conditions directly affect them.
The assumptions underlying the statutory reserving calculations remain unchanged in all sensitivities.
Change in Change in embedded new business value contribution Notes m m 1% increase in risk discount rates i 171 43 1% increase in equity and property expected returns ii n a n a 1% reduction in risk-free rates, with corresponding change in fixed-interest asset values 54 5 10% reduction in market values of equity and property assets for embedded value iii 157 n a 100m reduction in capital requirements for embedded value iv 7 n a 50% increase in capital requirements for new business contribution n a 3 10% reduction in expenses 44 9 10% reduction in lapses 53 20 5% reduction in annuitant mortality 55 2 5% reduction in mortality and morbidity excluding annuities 23 4 i Although not directly relevant under a market-consistent valuation where the risk discount rate is a derived disclosure only, this shows the impact of a change in the average derived risk discount rate, to enable adjustments to be made to reflect differing views of risk.
ii As a market-consistent approach is used, equity and property expected returns only affect the derived risk discount rates and not the embedded value or contribution to profits from new business.
iii The movement in embedded value comprises a 93m decrease in shareholders invested net assets and a 64m reduction in the value of in-force Life & Pensions business.
iv Required capital is set at the greater of regulatory capital and economic capital.
In aggregate the economic capital requirements are higher than the regulatory requirement by 100m.
This sensitivity shows the impact on embedded value and contribution from new business of using the regulatory capital requirements.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 193
