EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Notes to the parent company accounts The principal impacts as a result of adopting those standards are: 1.
Accounting policies i The STICS issued by the company in 2003 with a carrying value of 1.1 Basis of preparation 299m 2004: 299m are now accounted for as equity: previously Friends Provident plc the company is a limited liability company, STICS were accounted for as debt.
incorporated in the UK, whose shares are publicly traded.
ii The convertible bonds issued by the company in 2002 are accounted for as compound financial instruments.
These are split The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with into their component parts which are accounted for separately in applicable accounting standards and under the historical cost debt at 276m 2004: 311m and equity at 51m 2004: nil.
convention as modified by the revaluation of investments as set out Previously the convertible bond was treated as a pure debt in note 1.3.
Full details are set out in note 34 in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
The company has continued to present individual financial iii Quoted investments are valued at bid price raher than mid price.
statements prepared on a UK Generally Accepted Accounting This has impacted the value of investments by 0.2m in 2004.
Practice basis as permitted by section 226 A and Schedule 4 to the iv The 75m loan between the company and FPMS is non-interest Companies Act 1985 of adopting the exemption of omitting the bearing and has no fixed redemption date.
The debt has been profit and loss account conferred by section 230 of that Act.
treated as a long term investment, reducing the intercompany loan by 75m and increasing the investment in subsidiary by 75m.
As All accounting policies have been reviewed for appropriateness in a result of this, the 7m diminution in value of FPMS has been accordance with Financial Reporting Standard FRS 18 Accounting reclassified from provisions to investments in group undertakings.
v Dividends receivable on the 300m investment in FPLP preference shares are recognised on an accruals basis as the preference In accordance with FRS 1, the company is exempt from the shares meet the definition of debt under FRS 25. requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that this is provided in its consolidated financial statements, which are Further details of these changes are set out in note 11. publicly available.
3 Share based payments 1.2 Accounting policy changes The company has adopted FRS 20 Share based payments with effect from 1 January 2005 as set out in note 11 of the Groups 1.2.
1 Events after the balance sheet date consolidated financial statements.
The accounting treatment FRS 25 Events after the balance sheet date was adopted for the required by FRS 20 is consistent with that applied under IFRS 2 year ended 31 December 2005.
This is in alignment with in the Group's consolidated financial statements.
International Accounting Standard IAS 10 that has been adopted in the Group Annual Report and Accounts of the company for the year 1.3 Significant accounting policies ended 31 December 2005.
1 Investment return Investment return includes dividends, interest, rents, gains and The impact of this change in accounting policy is that the dividend losses on the realisation of assets and unrealised gains and losses.
payable of 107m relating to 2005 has not been recognised in the Such income includes any withholding tax but excludes other tax accounts for the year.
credits, such as attributable tax credits.
Income from fixed-interest securities together with interest, rents, and associated expenses are The 2004 comparatives have been restated to exclude the 2004 final accounted for in the period in which they accrue.
Dividends are dividend payable to Shareholders of 102m and to exclude the 2004 included in the profit and loss account when the securities are listed final dividend from FPLP of 150m.
If FRS 21 had not been adopted as ex-dividend.
Realised gains or losses on investments are in the accounts, retained profit for the financial year would have calculated as the difference between the net sale proceeds and decreased by 107m 2004: increase of 48m.
Unrealised gains and losses on investments represent the difference between the valuation of investments at the balance 1.2.
2 Financial Instruments sheet date and their original cost, or if they have been previously FRS 25 Financial instruments: disclosure and presentation and FRS revalued, the valuation at the last balance sheet date.
The movement 26 Financial instruments: measurement were adopted for the year in unrealised gains and losses recognised in the period also includes ended 31 December 2005.
These align the company accounting the reversal of unrealised gains and losses recognised in earlier with the requirements of IAS 32 and IAS 39 that have been adopted accounting periods in respect of disposals in the current period.
in the Group consolidated financial statements.
2 Taxation The company has taken advantage of the exemption permitted by FRS Taxation is based on profits and income for the period as determined 25 which exempts parent companies from the disclosure requirements in accordance with the relevant tax legislation, together with of that standard.
adjustments to provisions for prior periods.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 195
