EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 31.
Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating risks continued 31 December 2004 AAA AA A BBB BB B Not rated Total m m m m m m m m Corporate bonds 2,766 1,571 2,738 614 - - 169 7,858 Derivative financial instruments - 42 122 - - - - 164 Reinsurance assets - 20 92 - - - - 112 For over-the-counter derivative transactions undertaken by the Group, collateral is received from the counterparty if the contract is in-themoney ie is an asset of the Group's and over any agreed minimum threshold.
This collateral can be sold or repledged by the Group and is repayable if the contract terminates or the contract's fair value falls.
At 31 December 2005 the fair value of such collateral held was 241m 2004: 162m.
No collateral received from the counterparty has been sold or repledged.
In respect of deposits with credit institutions and cash and cash equivalents, Group policy is to hold cash and deposits in AAA money funds or financial institutions with a rating of above AA.
d Liquidity risk The Group faces two key types of liquidity risk: shareholder liquidity risk liquidity within funds managed for the benefit of shareholders, including shareholders interests in long-term funds and policyholder liquidity risk liquidity within funds managed for the benefit of policyholders.
Longer-term shareholder liquidity risk will be taken on when it is deemed financially beneficial for the organisation to do so, or where the taking of this liquidity risk is in support of strategic objectives.
Short-term shareholder liquidity risk is avoided due to the need to satisfy dividend expectations whilst having a limited timeframe to raise capital.
Policyholder liquidity risk is not accepted, over either a short or longer-term timeframe, in all but the most extreme scenarios.
The same is true for liquidity risk in F&Cs investors funds.
The overall objective of shareholder liquidity risk management is to ensure that there is sufficient liquidity over short up to one year and medium time horizons to meet the needs of the business.
This includes liquidity to cover, amongst other things, new business costs, planned strategic activities such as acquisitions, servicing debt and equity capital as well as working capital to fund day-to-day cash flow requirements.
For policyholder funds, liquidity risk arises from a number of potential areas, including: a short-term mismatch between assets and liabilities having to realise assets to meet liabilities when asset values are depressed an unexpectedly high level of lapses surrenders.
Liquidity risk is managed in the following way: Forecasts are prepared regularly to predict required liquidity levels over both the short and medium term.
Committed third party funding facilities are held to enable cash to be raised in a relatively short time-span.
Credit risk of cash deposits is managed by applying counterparty limits and imposing restrictions over the credit ratings of third parties with whom cash is deposited.
Assets of a suitable maturity and marketability are held to meet policyholder liabilities as they fall due.
Limits are set on the level of lower grade or speculative investments that can be held.
F&Cs 180m loan falls due for repayment on 1 November 2006 and the F&C board are at an advanced stage of appointing advisors to facilitate the refinancing of this debt.
Refer to note 34 for other Group loan repayment commitments.
Fund for future appropriations The fund for future appropriations comprises all funds available for allocation, either to policyholders or to shareholders, the allocation of which had not been determined at the balance sheet date.
This is analysed as follows: 2005 2004 m m FPLP 301 174 FPLA 119 82 At 31 December 420 256 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 151
