EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Notes to the consolidated accounts continued is only required to settle the obligation in the event of liquidation or if 1.
Accounting policies continued the likelihood of the event occurring or not occurring is so remote that it is extremely unlikely that the obligation will be triggered, then At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the the Group treats the instruments as equity.
Interest and dividends number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
It on instruments classified as equity are not treated as expenses but recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in as an appropriation of profit.
Where the Group considers that the the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity commercial intent of the instrument was debt, the interest is over the remaining vesting period.
The fair value is measured using included in the underlying profit calculation of the Group.
scenario based modelling techniques that take into account the terms and conditions upon which these options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual 2.
Use of estimates, assumptions and judgements number of share options that vest, except where forfeiture is only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
The Group makes estimates, assumptions and judgements that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities.
Estimates, assumptions For cash-settled schemes, the fair value of the share based payment and judgements are continually evaluated and based on historical is measured at the grant date and expensed over the vesting period experience and other factors, including expectations of future events in the income statement with a corresponding credit to liabilities.
that are considered to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The estimated fair value of cash-settled awards is remeasured at each reporting date until the payments are ultimately settled.
a Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional As stated in the accounting policies, management has determined share dilution in the computation of earnings per share.
that a contract is an insurance contract if there is a significant insurance risk.
Policyholder contracts not considered insurance 1.3.
24 Share capital and dividends contracts are classified as investment contracts.
Investment contracts Where either the company or F&C has a holding in its own equity with DPF are mainly unitised with-profit policies which are valued on which has been classified as treasury shares, the consideration the same basis as is used for insurance contracts.
paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of tax, is deducted from equity attributable to that company's equity The estimation of the ultimate liabilities arising is a critical accounting holders.
Where such shares are subsequently sold, reissued or estimate.
There are several sources of uncertainty that need to be otherwise disposed of, any consideration received is included in considered in the estimation of the liabilities that the Group will equity attributable to the companys equity holders, net of any ultimately pay for those claims.
directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related tax effects.
A number of assumptions are used to determine the Groups liabilities, which contain guarantees and options.
The most Interim dividends on ordinary shares are recognised when paid.
Final significant assumptions are: dividends payable are recognised as a liability on the date declared by the Groups directors, or if subject to approval, by the mortality and morbidity assumptions: shareholders.
for with-profits policies within FPLP, the stochastic model used to value liabilities is sensitive to risk-free rates, assumed asset 1.3.
25 Classification of financial instruments between debt and volatilities and the assumed correlation between asset equity volatilities.
Risk-free rates are set in accordance with current The classification of financial instruments between debt and equity market rates: is based on the principles within IAS 32 Financial Instruments: for other policies, the valuation interest rate is the most Disclosure and Presentation.
In order to be classified as debt the significant economic assumption: financial instrument, in situations where the contract will not be for guaranteed annuity options one of the principal guarantees settled by the Groups own shares, must have a contractual written by the Group the cost depends on assumptions such as obligation to: the level of policy discontinuance and the tax-free cash take-up: changes in assumptions behind the valuation techniques for deliver cash or another financial asset to another entity: or assets that are not quoted in active markets could have a exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another entity significant impact on assets that are backing insurance and under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Group.
For some instruments the contractual obligation to pay cash or The carrying values of insurance contracts liabilities are 14,637m another financial asset is dependent on the occurrence or non- 2004: 14,047m and for investment contracts liabilities with DPF occurrence of some future event.
If this event is out of the control are 6,394m 2004: 6,208m.
of both the Group and the holder, then this usually means that the instrument still meets the definition of debt.
However, if the Group Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 81
