309467 1-100 13 3 06 11:28 pm Page 96 commencing on or after 1 January 2007 and are subsequently classified as financial Accounting have not been applied.
The application assets or liabilities held for trading.
Where of these standards in 2005 would not the fair value of a derivative is positive, Policies have affected the balance sheets or income it is carried as a derivative asset and where statement as they are only concerned negative as a derivative liability.
The gain or with disclosure.
loss on remeasurement to fair value at the Statement of Compliance balance sheet date is taken to the income The 2005 statutory consolidated financial 2004 Comparative Information statement.
The only circumstance where statements set out on pages 101 to 179 Using the exemptions within IFRS 1, this will not apply is when cash flow hedge have been prepared in accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure accounting is employed.
International Financial Reporting Standards and Presentation, IAS 39 Financial as adopted by the European Union IFRS.
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Hedge accounting allows one financial The standards adopted by the Group and IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts only became instrument, generally a derivative such and Company are those endorsed by the effective from 1 January 2005.
Where the as a swap, to be designated as a hedge European Union and effective at the date implementation of these standards resulted of another financial instrument such as the consolidated IFRS financial statements in a change in accounting policy from a loan or deposit or a portfolio of the same.
are approved by the Board.
1 January 2005, the 2004 comparatives do At inception of the hedge relationship formal not reflect the provisions of these standards.
documentation must be drawn up specifying These are the Group and Companys first The policy applied in respect of such 2004 the hedging strategy, the component annual consolidated financial statements comparative information has been set out at transactions and the methodology that prepared in accordance with IFRS.
An the end of this section under the heading will be used to measure effectiveness.
explanation of how the transition has affected 2004 Accounting Policies on page 100. the reported financial position of the Group is The related 2005 policy has been annotated Monitoring of hedge effectiveness is provided in Notes 53 to 57 on pages 170 to 179. with an asterisk in the heading to indicate undertaken on an ongoing basis.
A hedge is the change in policy.
Where there is no regarded as effective if the change in fair value The consolidated accounts also comply asterisk, the 2005 policy has been applied or cash flows of the hedge and the hedged with the relevant provisions of Part VII consistently to both periods presented item are correlated within a range of 80% to of the Companies Act 1985, as amended in the accounts.
125% either for the period since effectiveness by the Companies Act 1985 International was last tested or cumulatively since inception.
Accounting Standards and Other Accounting Basis of Consolidation Amendments Regulations 2004.
Additionally The consolidated financial statements The Group uses three hedge accounting the Group has applied Financial Reporting include the results of the Company and its methods.
Standard 27 Life Assurance issued by subsidiary undertakings, together with the the UK Accounting Standards Board Groups interests in associated undertakings Firstly, fair value hedging measures the as appropriate.
change in the fair value of the derivative against the offsetting change in the fair value Basis of Preparation Subsidiaries of the hedged item in respect of the risk being The consolidated financial statements have Subsidiaries and special purpose entities hedged.
These changes in fair value are been prepared under the historical cost basis, are entities controlled by the Group.
Control recognised through the income statement.
except that the following assets and liabilities is defined where the Group has power, If this hedge is highly effective then the net are stated at their fair values: derivatives, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial impact on the income statement is minimised.
financial instruments held for trading, financial and operating policies of such entities.
In instruments designated at fair value through assessing control, potential voting rights that Secondly, cash flow hedging matches the the income statement, financial instruments presently are exercisable or convertible are cash flows of hedged items against the classified as available for sale and taken into account.
The financial statements corresponding cash flow of the hedging investment properties.
of such entities are consolidated within the derivative.
The effective part of any gain or Group financial statements until the date loss on the derivative is recognised directly Exemptions on First-time Adoption of IFRS The Group has adopted the following control ceases.
in equity and the hedged item is accounted for in accordance with the policy for that exemptions set out in IFRS 1, First-time adoption of International Financial Associated Undertakings and financial instrument.
Any ineffective part of Jointly Controlled Entities any gain or loss is recognised immediately Reporting Standards.
Associated undertakings are entities over in the income statement.
Business Combinations which the Group has significant influence, IFRS 3, Business Combinations has not but not control over the financial and Thirdly, hedging of net investment in foreign been applied retrospectively to business operating policies.
Significant influence operations is discussed within the foreign combinations that occurred before 1 January is the power to participate in the financial currencies accounting policy.
Accumulated amortisation on goodwill and operating policy decisions of the entity arising before 1 January 2004 has not but is not control over those policies.
In circumstances where the hedge therefore been reversed.
relationship, in respect of cash flow hedging Jointly controlled entities are entities over subsequently proves ineffective, is early Employee Benefits which the Group has joint control under a settled or is terminated then the associated All cumulative actuarial gains and losses contractual arrangement with other parties.
gains and losses that were recognised to 1 January 2004 arising from the Groups directly in reserves are reclassified to the defined benefit schemes have been The attributable share of results of income statement in the same period or recognised in equity at 1 January 2004. associated undertakings and jointly periods during which the asset acquired controlled entities, generally based on or liability assumed affects profit or loss.
Translation Differences audited accounts, are included in the Cumulative translation differences for all consolidated financial statements using Adjustments made to the carrying amount of foreign operations are deemed to be zero the equity method of accounting.
The share the hedged item for fair value hedges will be at 1 January 2004.
Any gain or loss on the of any losses is restricted to a level that amortised on an effective interest rate basis subsequent disposal of a foreign operation reflects an obligation to fund such losses.
over the remaining expected life.
shall exclude translation differences that arose before 1 January 2004, but include Purchase and Sale of Trading Financial In respect of cash flow hedges, the amount later translation differences.
Instruments deferred in reserves will either remain in The Group uses trade date accounting reserves until the designated transaction Adopted IFRS Not Yet Applied when recording transactions.
occurs or, if not expected to occur, be IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosure recognised in the income statement.
and the Capital disclosure amendmentto Derivatives IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements Derivatives are initially recognised at fair A derivative may be embedded in another which are applicable for periods value on the date the contract is entered into financial instrument, known as the HBOSplc Annual Report and 96 Accounts 2005 309467 1-100 13 3 06 11:28 pm Page 97 host contract.
Where the economic instalment credit agreements, they are listed equity shares being credited on the excharacteristics and risks of an embedded recorded at an amount equal to the net dividend date and income on unlisted equity derivative are not closely related to those investment in the lease, less any provisions shares being credited on an equivalent basis.
of the host contract the embedded for impairment, within loans and advances derivative is separated from the host to customers.
Repurchase Agreements and held on balance sheet at fair value.
Debt securities sold subject to repurchase Movements in fair value are posted to the The difference between the gross receivable agreements are retained within the balance income statement, whilst the host contract and the present value of the receivable sheet where the Group retains substantially is accounted for in accordance with the is recognised as unearned finance income.
all of the risks and rewards of ownership.
policy for that class of financial instrument.
Lease income is recognised over the term Funds received under these arrangements of the lease using the net investment are included within deposits by banks or Loans and Advances method before tax, which reflects customer accounts.
Conversely, debt Loans and advances are held at amortised a constant periodic rate of return.
securities acquired under commitments cost less provision for impairment.
to resell are not recognised in the balance All other assets leased to customers are sheet as debt securities where substantially The Group assesses impairment individually classified as operating leases.
These assets all the risks and rewards do not pass to the for financial assets that are significant and are separately disclosed in the balance Group.
In this case, the purchase price is individually or collectively for assets that are sheet and are recorded at cost less included within loans and advances to banks not significant.
aggregate depreciation, which is calculated or loans and advances to customers.
Operating lease The difference between sale and repurchase Individual impairment is identified at rentals are recognised in operating income prices for such transactions is reflected a counterparty specific level following on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
in the income statement over the lives of objective evidence that a financial asset Operating lease assets are reviewed for the transactions, within interest payable is impaired.
This may be after an interest impairment when there is an indication or interest receivable as appropriate.
or principal payment is missed or when a of impairment.
The present Intangible Assets value of estimated cash flows recoverable Investment Securities Goodwill is determined after taking into account any Investment securities held for trading are The excess of the cost of a business security held.
The amount of any impairment carried at fair value, with income taken to combination over the interest in the net is calculated by comparing the present value net trading income as it arises.
Investment fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities of the cash flows discounted at the loans securities designated at fair value through and contingent liabilities at the date of original effective interest rate with the the income statement are carried at acquisition, of subsidiary undertakings, balance sheet carrying value.
If impaired, fair value, with income taken to other associated undertakings including jointly the carrying value is adjusted and the operating income.
controlled entities and other businesses, difference charged to the income statement.
Debt securities for which there is no active The written down value of the impaired loan market are classified as loans and receivables, After initial recognition, goodwill is measured is compounded back to the net realisable other than those that are held for trading or at cost less any accumulated impairment balance over time using the original effective designated at fair value through the income losses.
Goodwill carried in the consolidated interest rate.
This is reported through interest statement, and carried on the balance sheet balance sheet is subject to a six monthly receivable within the income statement and at amortised cost less provision for impairment, impairment review by comparing the value represents the unwinding of the discount.
with income recognised on an effective in use with the carrying value.
When this interest rate basis.
indicates that the carrying value is not A write-off is made when all or part of a recoverable, it is written down through the claim is deemed uncollectable or forgiven.
All other investment securities are classified income statement by the amount of any Write-offs are charged against previously as available for sale.
They are carried impaired loss identified.
established provisions for impairment or on the balance sheet at fair value with directly to the income statement.
unrealised gains or losses being recognised Software directly in equity, except for impairment Costs associated with the development In circumstances where an asset has been losses or foreign exchange gains or losses, of software for internal use, subject to fide individually assessed for impairment and no which are recognised immediately in the minimis limits, are capitalised if the software objective evidence of impairment exists, then income statement.
is technically feasible and the Group has it will be subject to a collective assessment.
both the intent and sufficient resources The Group uses settlement date accounting to complete the development.
Costs are Collective impairment is identified for when recording the purchase and sale of only capitalised if the asset can be reliably groups of assets that share similar risk investment securities.
measured, will generate future economic characteristics.
Collective impairment benefits and there is an ability to use or is assessed using a methodology based On sale or maturity, previously unrealised sell the asset.
on existing risk conditions or events that gains and losses are recognised in other have a strong correlation with a tendency operating income.
Only costs that are directly attributable to to default.
bringing the asset into working condition Impairment losses on available for sale for its intended use are capitalised.
These Loans and advances to customers include equity instruments are not reversed through costs include all directly attributable costs advances that are subject to non-returnable the income statement.
Any increase in the necessary to create, produce and prepare the finance arrangements following securitisation fair value of an available for sale equity asset to be capable of operating in a manner of portfolios of mortgages and other instrument after an impairment loss has been intended by management.
The principal benefits of these recognised is treated as a revaluation and expenditure is recognised in the income advances were acquired by special purpose recognised directly in equity.
An impairment statement as an expense as incurred.
securitisation companies that fund their loss on an available for sale debt instrument purchase primarily through the issue of is reversed through the income statement, Capitalised development expenditure and floating rate notes.
These floating rate notes if there is evidence that the increase in fair purchased software is stated at cost less are accounted for as debt securities in issue value is due to an event that occurred after accumulated amortisation and impairment on the balance sheet.
the impairment loss was recognised.
Once the software is ready for use, the capitalised costs are amortised over Finance Leases, Instalment Credit and Income on available for sale debt securities their expected lives, generally four years.
Operating Leases is recognised on an effective interest rate Capitalised software is assessed for Assets leased to customers that transfer basis and taken to interest receivable impairment where there is an indication of substantially all of the risks and rewards through the income statement.
Where impairment exists, the incidental to ownership to the customer are available for sale equity shares is credited to carrying amount of the asset is reduced to classified as finance leases.
Together with other operating income, with income on its recoverable amount and the impairment Annual Report and HBOSplc Accounts 2005 97 309467 1-100 13 3 06 11:07 pm Page 98 initially recognised at cost and are fair valued The fair values of options or shares granted Accounting annually.
Any gains or losses arising from is determined at the date of grant and a change in the fair value are recognised in expensed over the vesting period.
The fair Policies continued the income statement in the period that they values of the options or shares granted occur.
Investment properties are not are measured using various models, taking depreciated.
into account the terms and conditions upon loss recognised in the income statement.
which the options and shares were granted.
The amortisation charge for the asset is Taxation At each balance sheet date the Group revises then adjusted to reflect the assets revised Income tax on the profit or loss for the year its estimate of the number of options or carrying amount.
comprises current and deferred tax.
Income shares that it expects to vest and spreads tax is recognised in the income statement any adjustments required to the income Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised except to the extent that it relates to items statement over the vesting period except when it increases the future economic recognised directly in equity, in which case for those which relate to a market condition.
benefits embodied in the specific asset it is recognised in equity.
The tax charge to which it relates.
is analysed between tax that is payable in Other Borrowed Funds respect of policyholder returns and tax that Purchased Value of In-Force Other borrowed funds comprises preference is payable on shareholders equity returns.
Investment Contracts shares that are classified as debt, preferred This allocation is based on an assessment The Groups contractual right to benefits securities and subordinated liabilities, all of of the effective rate of tax that is applicable from providing investment management which are held at amortised cost.
to shareholders equity for the year.
services in relation to investment contracts acquired in business combinations and portfolio Preference shares are classified as debt Deferred tax is provided using the balance transfers are measured at fair value at the time where they are redeemable on a specific sheet liability method, providing for temporary of acquisition.
The resulting asset is referred date or at the option of the shareholders differences between the carrying amounts to as purchased value of in-force investment or if dividend payments are not discretionary.
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting contracts PVIF and is amortised over the Dividends on preference shares classified as purposes and the amounts used for taxation estimated lives of the contracts using a uniform debt are recognised in the income statement purposes.
The following temporary differences method.
PVIF is assessed for impairment where through interest payable.
are not provided: goodwill not deductible for there is an indication of impairment.
Where tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets impairment exists, the carrying amount of the Preferred securities are classified as debt and liabilities that affects neither accounting asset is reduced to its recoverable amount and where interest payments are not discretionary.
nor taxable profit and differences relating the impairment loss recognised in the income The interest payable on such securities is to investments in subsidiaries to the extent statement.
The amortisation charge is then recognised in the income statement through that they will probably not reverse in the adjusted to reflect the revised carrying amount.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected Property and Equipment Subordinated liabilities consist of dated and manner of realisation or settlement of the Property and equipment is stated at undated loan capital.
The interest payable is carrying amount of assets and liabilities, cost less accumulated depreciation and recognised in the income statement through using tax rates at the balance sheet date.
Employee Benefits Freehold land is not depreciated.
Freehold Collateral and Netting The Group has both defined benefit and leasehold property, other than freehold Assets and liabilities are shown net where and defined contribution schemes.
investment properties, is stated at cost and there is a legal right of offset and there is an depreciated over fifty years or the length of intention and ability to settle on a net basis.
Defined Contribution Schemes the lease term if shorter.
Improvements to The Group nets loans, deposits and Obligations for contributions to defined leasehold properties with unexpired lease derivative transactions where it enters into contribution pension schemes are terms of fifty years or less are stated at master agreements with counterparties where recognised as an expense in the income cost and are depreciated in equal instalments there is an intention and ability to settle net.
over the lesser of the remaining life of the lease or eight years.
Premiums are amortised Foreign Currencies Defined Benefit Schemes over the period of the lease.
The consolidated financial statements are The Groups net obligation in respect of presented in Sterling which is the Companys defined benefit pension plans is calculated The cost of equipment, which includes functional and presentation currency.
The net obligation fixtures and fittings, vehicles and computer represents the present value of the future hardware, less estimated residual value, Foreign currency transactions are translated benefits owed to employees in return for is written off in equal instalments over the into Sterling at the exchange rate prevailing their service in the current and prior periods, expected lives of the assets, generally at the date of the transaction.
after the deduction of the fair value of any between three and fifteen years.
Exchange gains and losses arising from the Subsequent costs are included in the assets translation at balance sheet date exchange The discount rate used is the market yield carrying amount, only when it is probable rates of monetary assets and liabilities are on high quality corporate bonds at the that future economic benefits associated recognised in net trading income.
balance sheet date that have maturity dates with the item will flow to the Group and the approximating to the terms of the Groups cost of the item can be measured reliably.
The results and financial position of all Group obligation.
The calculation is performed entities that have a functional currency by a qualified actuary using the projected Property and equipment is assessed for different from Sterling are translated into unit credit method.
Actuarial gains and impairment where there is an indication of Sterling as follows: losses arising are taken directly to equity impairment.
Where impairment exists, the assets and liabilities for each balance sheet in the period in which they are incurred.
carrying amount of the asset is reduced to presented are translated at the closing rate its recoverable amount and the impairment at the date of the balance sheet: The charge to the income statement includes loss recognised in the income statement.
goodwill and fair value adjustments arising current service cost, past service cost, the The depreciation charge for the asset is then on the acquisition of a foreign entity are interest cost of the scheme liabilities and the adjusted to reflect the assets revised treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign expected return on scheme assets.
entity and translated at the closing rate: and Investment Properties income and expenses are translated Share-based Payments at the average exchange rates for the Investment properties which are defined as The Group operates various equity-settled, properties held either to earn rental income period unless this is not a reasonable share-based compensation schemes in approximation of the cumulative effect or for capital appreciation or both, are exchange for employee services received.
HBOSplc Annual Report and 98 Accounts 2005 309467 1-100 13 3 06 11:27 pm Page 99 of the rates prevailing on the transaction calculated with reference to the expected of the liabilities is estimated using a valuation dates, in which case income and expenses payout using realistic and where applicable technique.
In accordance with this technique are translated at the dates of the market consistent assumptions in the liability is established as the bid value of transactions.
In the case of the the assets held to match the liability, less an former, premiums are recognised as revenue allowance in relation to deductions made to All resulting exchange differences are when due from the policyholder and claims the liability for capital gains tax on the gains recognised as a separate component payable are recorded when notified.
In the relating to the matching assets.
Deposits of other reserves within equity.
case of the latter, deposits and withdrawals and withdrawals are accounted for directly are accounted for directly in the balance in the balance sheet as adjustments to On consolidation, exchange differences arising sheet as adjustments to the liability.
the liability with other changes recognised from the translation of the net investment in in the income statement.
Insurance contract liabilities within the nonforeign operations, and of borrowings and profit funds are calculated in accordance other currency instruments designated as Revenue in relation to investment with the Integrated Prudential Sourcebook hedges of such investments, are taken to management services is recognised PRU issued by the UK Financial Services equity where the hedge is deemed to be as the services are provided.
These are adjusted to remove effective.
When a foreign operation is sold, costs directly attributable to securing the excessively prudent closure provisions and such exchange differences are recognised in Groups contractual right to benefit from certain other reserves required under the the income statement as part of the gain or providing investment management services PRU rules.
Premiums are recognised as loss on sale.
The ineffective portion of any net in relation to investment contracts, other revenue when due from the policyholder.
investment hedge is recognised in the income than through a business combination or Claims are the estimated cost of all claims statement immediately.
portfolio transfer refer to the accounting arising during the period.
Estimates are policy for intangible assets, are recognised based upon an assessment of the likely Cash and Cash Equivalents as an asset if it is probable that they will be costs taking account of all known facts.
Cash and cash equivalents are held for recovered.
Incremental costs include The accounting policies set out above the purpose of meeting short term cash commissions paid to intermediaries and in respect of the measurement of the commitments rather than investing or other similar costs.
This asset, referred policyholder liabilities include liability other purposes.
Cash and cash equivalents to as deferred origination costs DOC, adequacy testing that meets the consist of cash and balances at central is amortised as the related investment requirements of IFRS 4.
Where the banks that are freely available, loans and management revenue is recognised, and expected value of claims and expenses advances to banks with a maturity of three its recoverability assessed at each balance attributable to unexpired risk periods months or less and financial assets that are sheet date on a portfolio basis.
exceed the value of unearned premiums less held for trading purposes.
DAC, at the balance sheet date, additional General Insurance and Long Term General Insurance Business provisions are made for the anticipated losses.
Assurance Business Assets The Group underwrites general insurance The assets held in support of the general Unallocated Surplus products.
For each general insurance policy insurance and Long Term Assurance The unallocated surplus is accounted underwritten, premiums net of refunds are Businesses including those within for as a liability as permitted by IFRS 4. credited to net operating income over the shareholders funds are monitored and The carrying value of the unallocated surplus period of risk coverage of the insurance policy.
evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance is determined as the residual assets of with the investment strategy.
This basis The cost of claims notified but not settled the with-profit fund after providing for the is consistent with the method used for and claims incurred but not reported at the with-profit liabilities in accordance with regulatory purposes.
Accordingly, the Group balance sheet date are estimated and provided the policies described above.
has designated these assets as at fair value for.
Estimates are based upon an assessment through the income statement.
Interest, Value of In-Force Long Term Assurance of the likely costs taking account of all known dividends, foreign exchange gains and Business VIF facts.
Where the outcome of outstanding losses, and fair value movements including The Group places a value on the insurance cases is unclear, statistical techniques are movement on derivatives held to manage contracts and investment contracts with used which take into account the cost of the return on those assets are recorded in DPF, which represents the present value of recent similar claim settlements.
net investment income related to insurance future cash flows attributable to the Group and investment business.
Costs related to the acquisition of new with respect to these contracts.
The change insurance contracts including commissions in VIF is accounted for as revenue.
Effective Interest Rate paid to intermediaries and other related Revenue on financial instruments classified administration costs are capitalised as In-force business is defined as all policies as loans and receivables, available for sale, deferred acquisition costs DAC and where the first premium has been paid.
For or financial liabilities at amortised cost, amortised on the same basis that premiums traditional with-profit business, the surplus is recognised on an effective interest rate are recognised.
attributable to the Group equates to one basis.
This calculation takes into account ninth of the cost of the bonuses declared in Long Term Assurance Business interest received or paid and fees and any year.
The level of assumed future bonuses Product Classification commissions paid or received that are integral is calculated by projecting the portfolio of The Group has classified its Long Term to the yield as well as incremental transaction with-profit business forward and applying Assurance Business in accordance with costs.
The effective interest rate is the rate reversionary and terminal bonus rates so IFRS 4 as follows: that discounts the expected future cash as to exhaust the projected surplus of assets Insurance contracts - contracts containing flows over the expected life of the financial attributable to with-profit policyholders.
instrument or, where appropriate, a shorter Investment contracts with a discretionary Investment Contracts period, to the net carrying amount of the participation feature DPF - contracts that The Groups investment contracts, which financial instrument at initial recognition.
do not contain significant insurance risk include collective investment schemes, but that contain discretionary participation are primarily unit-linked.
These contracts 2004 Accounting Policies features, which are with-profit contracts.
are managed and evaluated on a fair value The 2004 comparatives do not reflect the Investment contracts - contracts that have basis in accordance with the terms of the provisions of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4. neither significant insurance risk nor a DPF.
contracts as benefits are linked to the fair The policies applied in respect of the value of the assets supporting the contracts.
2004 comparative information have Insurance Contracts and Investment Accordingly, the investment contract been set out below.
These policies are Contracts with DPF liabilities have been designated at fair value in addition to those identified on pages Insurance contracts and investment through the income statement with fair value 96 to 99 where the 2005 policy has been contracts with DPF including both traditional changes recognised through change in applied consistently to both periods and unitised with-profit contracts are investment contract liabilities.
The fair value presented in the accounts.
Annual Report and HBOSplc Accounts 2005 99 309467 1-100 9 3 06 9:12 pm Page 100 economic and business climate factors The income represents the change in the Accounting and management experience.
surplus attributable to the Group, including minority interests, and the net present value Policies continued Provisions made during the year are of the in-force business.
The value is a charged to the income statement, net of prudent estimate of the net present value recoveries.
If the collection of interest is of future cash flows attributable to the Derivatives considered doubtful, it is suspended and shareholders, based on the market value of Derivatives used for trading and non-trading excluded from interest income in the income the assets at the balance sheet date, using purposes include interest rate swaps, statement.
Provisions and suspended assumptions which reflect experience and cross currency swaps, futures, options, interest are written off to the extent that a long term outlook for the economy and forward rate agreements and caps, floors there is no longer any realistic prospect then discounting at an appropriate risk and collars.
Trading derivatives, which include customer Debt Securities Fees and Commissions driven and proprietary transactions and Debt securities and other fixed interest Arrangement fees and commission hedges thereof, are carried in the accounts securities held for trading are included at receivable for the continuing service of loans at fair value with gains or losses included market value with gains or losses included and advances are recognised on the basis of in net trading income.
The fair value is in dealing profits.
The difference between work done.
Those receivables relating to the based on quoted market prices.
Where the cost and market value of securities held bearing of risk, including premiums received representative market prices are not for trading is not disclosed as its determination by the Group on high loan to value available, the fair value is determined from is not practicable.
mortgages, are recognised on a straight line appropriate financial models using the basis over the expected period of the actual or modelled cash flows.
Fair value Debt securities and other fixed interest advance or risk exposure.
Other fees are adjustments are made, where appropriate, securities held for the longer term are recognised when receivable.
Fees and to cover credit risk, liquidity risk and future included at cost less amounts written off and commission payable to third parties are administrative costs.
adjusted for the amortisation of premiums or normally charged to the income statement discounts arising on purchase of investments as incurred.
For certain categories of Non-trading derivatives, which are used redeemable at fixed dates.
Such premiums business, fees are amortised over a period primarily as a risk management tool for or discounts are taken to interest receivable not exceeding four years.
hedging interest rate and foreign exchange on a straight line basis over the period to rate risk arising on on-balance sheet assets redemption.
The use of a straight line basis Securitisation and liabilities, are accounted for on the same does not result in a material difference to the Loans and advances to customers include basis as the underlying items being hedged.
amount of amortisation taken to interest advances that are subject to non-returnable receivable compared to the amortisation had finance arrangements, where the relevant In order to qualify as a hedge, a derivative a level gross yield basis been used.
Gains or conditions set out in the UK Accounting must effectively reduce any risk inherent in losses on realisation are recorded in other Standards Board publication FRS 5, the hedged item from potential movements operating income as they arise.
Reporting the Substance of Transactions in interest rates, exchange rates and market are met.
The proceeds from the issue of values.
Changes in the fair value of the Equity Shares these notes are shown as a deduction from derivative must be highly correlated with Equity shares held for investment are stated the securitised assets on the balance sheet.
changes in the fair value of the underlying at cost less amounts written off.
Income hedged item over the life of the hedged from listed equity shares is credited to other Interest Receivable and Payable contract.
Gains and losses on instruments operating income on the ex-dividend date Interest receivable and payable is used for hedging purposes are not and on an equivalent basis for unlisted recognised in the income statement recognised until the exposure that is being equity shares.
If the collection hedged is itself recognised.
Where a hedge of interest is considered doubtful, it is transaction is terminated early, any gain Dated and Undated Loan Capital suspended and excluded from interest or loss is spread over the remainder of the Dated and undated loan capital is included income in the income statement.
original life of the hedge contract.
In other at nominal value adjusted for premiums, circumstances, where the underlying item discounts and expenses, all of which are Mortgage Incentives subject to the hedge is extinguished, the All costs associated with mortgage incentive amortised evenly over the period to hedge transaction is measured at fair value redemption or reset.
This does not result schemes are charged in full in the year in and any profit or loss is recognised which the expense is incurred.
in a material difference to the amount of immediately.
amortisation had a level gross yield basis been used.
Loans and Advances Loans and advances are held at cost Collateral and Netting less provisions.
The Group nets loans, deposits and derivative transactions where it enters into master Specific provisions are made for advances agreements with counterparties to ensure that are recognised to be bad or doubtful.
that if an event of default occurs all amounts Specific provisions are assessed on a case outstanding with these counterparties will be by case basis or, where this is not practical, settled on a net basis.
Where the master as part of a portfolio of similar advances agreements are collateralised, the collateral will using loan loss estimation models.
take the form of a transfer of title to the Group A general provision, to cover advances in relation to the counterpartys exposure.
that are latently bad or doubtful, but not yet identified as such, is also maintained based on loan loss estimation models.
The models Long Term Assurance Business The Group accounts for the income from reflect the historical loan loss experience relevant to the particular market segment its Long Term Assurance Business using the embedded value basis.
or product and include adjustments for HBOSplc Annual Report and 100 Accounts 2005
