qxd 16 3 06 7:00 pm Page 106 106 British American Tobacco Directors Report and Accounts 2005 NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS Balance sheet 1 Investments in Group companies The Companys directly owned subsidiaries are British American Tobacco 1998 Limited, B.
A. T. International Finance p. l. c. B.
A. T Capital Corporation, BATMark Limited, British American Ventures Limited and British American Tobacco QUEST Limited.
Additions shown below represent further investment in British American Tobacco 1998 Limited.
The Directors are of the opinion that the individual investments in the subsidiary undertakings have a value not less than the amount at which they are shown in the balance sheet.
m 1 January 2005 404 Additions 3,618 31 December 2005 4,022 2 Debtors 2005 2004 Restated m m Amounts due from Group undertakings 1,925 915 Prepayments and accrued income 2 1,925 917 All the above amounts are due within one year.
3 Shareholders funds Share Capital Share premium redemption Other profit and capital account reserves reserves loss account Total m m m m m m 1 January 2005 535 37 72 90 950 1,684 Accounting policy change 643 643 535 37 72 90 307 1,041 Increase in share capital share options 66 Transfer from profit and loss account 2,163 2,163 Dividends and other appropriations ordinary shares page 46 note 8 910 910 Purchase of own shares 11 11 501 501 Consideration paid for purchase of own shares held in Employee Share Ownership Trusts 48 48 Consideration received on the exercise of options over own shares held in Employee Share Ownership Trusts 24 24 Other movements 29 29 31 December 2005 524 43 83 90 1,064 1,804 The accounting policy change is in respect of the recognition of dividends paid, which are now dealt with in the year in which they are declared, and dividends received, which are now dealt with in the year in which they are received.
The final dividend which has been declared for the year ended 31 December 2005 is shown on page 46 note 8.
The only change from the implementation of FRS20 on share-based payments is the restatement of own shares held in Employee Share Ownership Trusts, with the balance at 31 December 2004 restated from 182 million to 190 million.
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the profit and loss account of the Company has not been presented in these financial statements.
The profit for the year ended 31 December 2005 was 2,163 million 2004: 1,653 million.
qxd 14 3 06 1:02 pm Page 107 Directors Report and Accounts 2005 British American Tobacco 107 Ordinary Convertible redeemable shares of 25p each preference shares of 25p each Share capital Number of shares Number of shares m Authorised 1 January 2005 and 31 December 2005 2,858,265,349 241,734,651 775.00 Allotted, called up and fully paid 1 January 2005 2,139,807,599 534.95 Changes during the year share option schemes 1,571,588 0.39 purchase of own shares 45,240,000 11.31 31 December 2005 2,096,139,187 524.03 During 2005, 45 million shares were purchased for cancellation at a cost of 501 million.
Ordinary Convertible redeemable shares of 25p each preference shares of 25p each Number of shares Number of shares m Authorised 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2004 2,858,265,349 241,734,651 775.00 Allotted, called up and fully paid 1 January 2004 2,076,844,180 120,867,326 549.43 Changes during the year share option schemes 1,096,093 0.27 purchase of own shares 59,000,000 14.75 conversion of preference shares 120,867,326 120,867,326 31 December 2004 2,139,807,599 534.95 During 2004, 59 million shares were purchased for cancellation at a cost of 492.6 million.
Convertible redeemable preference shares On 7 June 1999, the Company issued 604,336,627 ordinary shares of 25p each and 241,734,651 convertible redeemable preference shares of 25p each in consideration for the acquisition of the entire issued share capital of Rothmans International B. V. Subsequently, in accordance with the terms of the convertible redeemable preference shares, 50 per cent of the preference shares was redeemed for cash on 7 June 2000 and the remaining 50 per cent was converted into the same number of ordinary shares on 3 June 2004.
The amortisation of discount on convertible redeemable preference shares reects the difference between the share price at 7 June 1999 and the redemption price in 2004, which was amortised over the period to the date of conversion into ordinary shares.
Share premium The increase of 6 million relates solely to ordinary shares issued under the Companys share option schemes.
These schemes are described in the Remuneration Report on pages 5 to 16.
qxd 14 3 06 1:02 pm Page 108 108 British American Tobacco Directors Report and Accounts 2005 NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS Balance sheet and other financial information 4 Creditors 2005 2004 restated m m Amounts due to Group undertakings 4,140 278 Sundry creditors 3 2 4,143 280 All the above amounts are due within one year.
5 Audit fees 2005 2004 Auditors fees 30,000 30,000 Fees paid to  for advisory and accountancy services UK nil nil 6 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments British American Tobacco p. l. c. has guaranteed borrowings by subsidiary undertakings of 6,425 million 2004: 6,716 million and total borrowing facilities of 15,326 million 2004: 13,860 million.
Performance guarantees given to third parties in respect of Group companies were 167 million 2004: 172 million.
qxd 22 3 06 11:25 am Page bc5 CONTACT INFORMATION Registered ofce Globe House 4 Temple Place London WC2R 2PG tel: 44 0 20 7845 1000 facsimile: 44 0 20 7240 0555 Incorporated in England and Wales No.
3407696 Secretary Alan Porter General Counsel Neil Withington Investor relations Enquiries should be directed to: Ralph Edmondson Rachael Cummins tel: 44 0 20 7845 1180 Press ofce Enquiries should be directed to: Fran Morrison David Betteridge tel: 44 0 20 7845 2888 Internet Information on British American Tobacco is available on www.
com Auditors  LLP 1 Embankment Place London WC2N 6RH BT2200 Report cover.
com Designed and produced by CGI London 44 0 20 7467 9300.
Printed in the UK by St Ives Westerham Press, Environmental Management System ISO 14001 accredited and Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain of custody certied.
Cover printed on Revive Special Silk containing bre from well-managed forests independently certied according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council as well as recovered bre.
The paper is also totally chlorine free TCF and produced at an ISO 14001 accredited mill.
Text pages printed on Revive Uncoated, using 80% fide-inked post consumer waste and 20% mill broke, all elemental chlorine free ECF.
Review 05 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Inside this review 2-3 16 Regional summary Chairmans statement 20 Financial review Jan du Plessis, Chairman, provides 24 Summary financial statement and notes an overview of the Groups financial 24 Group income statement performance in 2005 25 Group balance sheet 4-5 26 Group statement of changes in total equity Management review introduction 29 Independent auditors statement Paul Adams, Chief Executive, explains 30 Corporate governance why British American Tobacco is well 30 Board of Directors positioned for future growth 31 Management Board 6-7 32 Framework, the Board and its Committees Growth How organic growth is being 32 Summary remuneration report achieved, despite tough market conditions ibc Contact and shareholder information Case study: Australasia Growth in a challenging environment 8-9 Growth our brands The performance of our Global Drive Brands and other key brands continues to drive growth 10-11 Productivity The progress being achieved in programmes to reduce costs Case study: Brazil Increasing efficiency across Souza Cruz 12-13 Responsibility Our ongoing work in harm reduction and CSR Case study: Test marketing a smokeless tobacco product 14-15 Special feature South Africa Winning Organisation Developing How our strategy is creating success leaders at all management levels throughout British American Tobacco Case study: Using leadership to South Africa drive change in Equatorial Africa Annual Review 2005 British American Tobacco 01 OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS The outstanding results for 2005 demonstrate that British American Tobaccos strategy is working well and I am confident that we can continue to deliver quality earnings growth and good cash ow over the long term.
Jan du Plessis, Chairman Like-for-like profit from operations Like-for-like Group volumes 9% 2% 2005 2,607m 2005 676 billion 2004 2,398m 2004 663 billion Growth of 9 per cent, or 5 per cent at constant rates of Like-for-like Group volumes grew by 2 per cent to exchange, reected higher profit in all regions, except 676 billion, with the four Global Drive Brands achieving America-Pacic.
Reported profit from operations was overall growth of 9 per cent.
Reported volumes were down 36 per cent due principally to the impact of a gain 1 per cent lower reecting the disposal of subsidiaries on disposal of subsidiaries in the 2004 comparative.
An in 2004. explanation of the like-for-like basis is given on page 20.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share Dividends per share declared 17% 12% 2005 89.34p 2005 47.0p 2004 76.62p 2004 41.9p Earnings per share are 89.34p, up 17 per cent, reecting the With the recommended final dividend of 33.0p, the total improved underlying operating performance and reduced dividends per share declared in respect of 2005 are 47.0p, net finance costs, as well as the impact of the Reynolds an increase of 12 per cent on last year.
American transaction and the share buy-back programme.
This Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement does not contain sufficient information to allow for a full understanding of the results of the Group and the state of affairs of the Company or of the Group.
For further information, refer to the Directors Report and Accounts, which incorporates the full annual accounts, the Report of the independent auditors on those accounts, the Directors Report and the Remuneration Report see page 26.
02 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2005 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT These outstanding results have been achieved in a year when the management team has also been able to take significant steps to improve the quality of our business.
2005 has been a vintage year for British American Tobacco.
In 2005, the savings achieved from our supply chain The Group has achieved good underlying growth in profit programme, which includes the factory footprint review, and a 17 per cent increase in adjusted diluted earnings per were 106 million, bringing the total over the three years share.
profit from operations in subsidiary companies was since we started the programme to 226 million per year.
ahead by 9 per cent on a like-for-like basis, or 5 per cent We expect to deliver further supply chain savings in the at comparable rates of exchange, driven by underlying years ahead.
volume growth of 2 per cent.
In addition, 103 million was saved from our overheads These outstanding results have been achieved in a year and indirect costs programme in 2005, bringing the when the management team has also been able to take annualised total since 2003 to 256 million, well on the significant steps to improve the quality of our business.
way to our target of 320 million per year by 2007.
As a Our strategic focus on Growth, Productivity, Responsibility result, we are increasing this target to annual savings of and developing a Winning Organisation is positioning the 400 million by 2007.
Group well for the future.
British American Tobaccos associate companies, Reynolds The 9 per cent growth in our Global Drive Brands is American, ITC and STK achieved volume of 232 billion particularly encouraging.
Kent, at almost 39 billion, was and our share of their post-tax results was 392 million.
18 per cent ahead with excellent performances in its major Reynolds American, which accounts for 244 million of markets of Russia and Romania, as well as an increase in the total, continues to perform ahead of our expectations, share in Japan.
With volumes of close to 33 billion, Pall Mall reecting a truly successful merger.
continued its exceptional growth of 25 per cent, performing Exceeding our long term goal well in all its key markets.
Dunhill, at over 30 billion, was In addition to the improved like-for-like operating 4 per cent down because of substantially reduced industry performance, the Group benefited from reduced net volumes in Malaysia and South Korea.
Lucky Strike, with finance costs, the Reynolds American transaction and the sales of 22 billion, was 2 per cent lower, mainly as a result share buy-back programme.
As a result, adjusted diluted of a decline in total market volumes in Germany.
earnings per share rose 17 per cent to 89.34p, an increase The overall growth in our Global Drive Brands illustrates that signicantly exceeds our long term goal of delivering, the improvement in the quality of our business.
This is on average, high single gure growth in earnings.
further underlined by the growth in our revenue on a Under the share buy-back programme, we bought some like-for-like basis of 7 per cent at current rates of exchange, 45 million shares in 2005, at a cost of 501 million and or 3.4 per cent at comparable rates.
at an average price of 11.08 per share.
The programme Productivity will continue during 2006.
The 271 million restructuring charge for 2005 is The Board has proposed a final dividend of 33.0p per share, mainly because of the factory closures announced in taking the total for the year to 47.0p, an overall increase the UK, Canada, New Zealand and Ireland, together with of 12 per cent.
The dividend will be paid on 4 May 2006 redundancy costs associated with our overheads reduction to shareholders on the Register at 10 March 2006. programme in a number of countries.
A 68 million exceptional gain reects the profit on the sale of some The savings referred to earlier are the result of our focus on brands to Gallaher in April 2005, as a result of the turning a multinational business operating in 180 markets enlargement of the European Union.
into an integrated global enterprise that can take advantage Annual Review 2005 British American Tobacco 03 of its scale.
We are working hard to reduce our costs but we are also investing in the business to build long term value and sustainability.
Over the past five years, British American Tobacco has delivered an average total shareholder return of 26.7 per cent per year, compared to 1.4 per cent for the FTSE 100.
I am delighted to welcome Thony Ruys to the Board.
We will benefit from his long experience in marketing and general management with Unilever and Heineken.
Before I conclude, I would like to pay tribute to Dr Anton Rupert, the founder of the Rothmans business that became part of the Group in 1999, who died recently at the age of 89.
Not only did his marketing genius create several of our leading brands, but the deep humanity and wisdom which became the great mans trademark inspired many of our past and present colleagues throughout their careers.
The outstanding results for 2005 demonstrate that British American Tobaccos strategy is working well and I am confident that we can continue to deliver quality earnings growth and good cash ow over the long term.
Jan du Plessis, Chairman 04 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2005 MANAGEMENT REVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES INTRODUCTION We have confidence in our strategy, we believe that our business is sustainable and we expect that British American Tobacco will continue to grow.
British American Tobacco is well positioned and ready for will grow in certain lower-margin markets, such as the future.
While the global adult population is expected Pakistan, Bangladesh and Turkey.
to grow, keeping the industrys volumes above five trillion Based on evidence from 24 of the major markets, units over the next 10 years, we also have the advantages representing over three-quarters of global industry of a broad geographic spread and a focused brand portfolio.
volumes, the adult population 20 will grow, but the We have confidence in our strategy, we believe that our incidence of adult smoking will decline over the next business is sustainable and we expect that British American decade.
Our general conclusion is that the total smoking Tobacco will continue to grow.
The evidence of our population is likely to remain stable at around one billion performance over recent years and our own analysis of people.
Global cigarette consumption is likely to remain future prospects support this view.
above five trillion units, despite cigarette volumes declining Industry challenges slowly, over the next 10 years.
In our view, an industry Hikes in excise rates will mean consumers facing price of this size makes suggestions of a tobacco-free world rises above ination.
As a result, in many markets there will and the quit or die approach to regulation, extremely be some consumer switching to cheaper brands.
A more constructive view would see regulators excise levels applied by governments have created wide and others working with us on a reduced harm approach.
tax differentials across national borders and are a major We like to say we were born international over 100 years factor in driving an increase in contraband and counterfeit ago, and our broad geographic base means we are already activity.
We now view smuggling and counterfeit as a major well represented in many of the emerging markets, which competitor, a stark indication of the scale of the problem we expect to grow in terms of profit as well as volume over that illicit trade poses for the industry and governments.
Additionally, we are not over-reliant on We support balanced and evidence-based regulation of the one or two high-margin markets which are declining faster tobacco industry, but the pace and scope of disproportionate than the global average.
Recent examples Our future growth include graphic health warnings on packs and excessive Our future growth is not dependent on the overall world restrictions, or even bans, on smoking in public places like market expanding.
It will come from adult population bars and restaurants.
growth, higher prices in the more mature markets and Despite these apparent threats, we continue to expect the increased market share in the developing world.
As industry to remain sizeable in the future and we believe disposable income grows, particularly in the emerging that we can increase our share of its profit pool.
markets, smokers want to upgrade to international brands.
Our Global Drive Brands, already demonstrating British American Tobacco is well positioned strong growth, are well positioned to benefit from this The global tobacco industry currently produces nearly trend.
In short, we are confident of growing our share of five and a half trillion cigarettes a year, with sales from a five trillion unit industry and improving our profitability.
the six biggest international manufacturers accounting for half of the global market.
With a market share, We remain clear and focused on providing leadership for including our associates, of 17 per cent, we are the our industry and creating long term shareholder value.
second largest international tobacco group.
Our strategy for achieving this is straightforward.
Most importantly, we can see the strategic focus on Growth, Global volumes, excluding China, have been declining Productivity, Responsibility and Winning Organisation slowly for some years and this trend is expected to being translated into action around the Group with continue.
Volumes are expected to fall faster in higherconsistency and energy.
margin markets, such as the US and Japan, than they Annual Review 2005 British American Tobacco 05 Our Global Drive Brands have increased volumes by 47 per cent over the last five years, producing much of our organic growth.
We are taking great strides in our programmes to improve productivity, with the money from these savings reinvested in our brands or contributing directly to increased profits.
There is real strength in having a sustainable business in order to generate shareholder value.
To help build this sustainability, we are continuing to demonstrate responsibility, including on our approach to reduced harm.
For the future benefit of the Group, we are strengthening a pipeline of talented people and this work is central to our ability to carry out our strategy.
On the following pages of this Management Review, we report in more detail on these four strategic areas and the progress made during another successful year.
Our people British American Tobacco achieved considerable headway in 2005 and has been one of the FTSE 100s most successful companies over recent years.
This has been possible only with the commitment of our people.
Most of their hard work goes on behind the scenes, without mention in the Annual Review.
Yet, in all corners of our world, our people are displaying pride in their company and in what they do.
I thank them all very much.
Paul Adams, Chief Executive 06 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2005 MANAGEMENT REVIEW GROWTH Volumes were 2 per cent higher, a very good level of organic growth in the context of the industry environment and ahead of our goal.
We continue to seek increases in our volumes and share of Building key relationships the global tobacco industry in two ways.
Always looking Building strong relationships with trade customers can out for interesting opportunities, we will pursue mergers be a source of competitive advantage.
We aim to be the or acquisitions but only if they make strategic and financial benchmark supplier in every market and channel where sense.
This means that our day-to-day focus is set on we do business.
While our Trade Marketing and Distribution delivering organic growth.
teams are in continual dialogue with key customers and trade partners, we also commission independent annual Organic growth customer satisfaction surveys, to assess the effectiveness At 676 billion, the volumes from our subsidiary companies of these relationships.
The results from surveys to date were 2 per cent higher on a like-for-like basis, a very good indicate favourable scores against those from other level of organic growth in the context of the industry tobacco companies and consumer goods companies.
environment and ahead of our goal.
The overall performance from around the Group was very good too, with four of our Innovation five regions well ahead.
Within the regions there were some A critical factor setting us apart from our competitors is particularly impressive results, including Australia, Brazil, the innovation we have brought to well established brands, Germany, Pakistan, Russia and South Africa.
America-Pacic an integral part of our growth strategy.
The impact of is the one region lower than 2004, as the difficulties in innovations valued by consumers can be measured in terms Canada continue.
The durability to withstand a significant of consumer demand, a reconsidered image of the brand, regional downturn highlights the strategic benefit that brand loyalty and the willingness to pay a premium.
The geographic spread brings to the Group.
result for British American Tobacco is increased net turnover and an enhanced competitive position in the market.
We Our subsidiaries can also demonstrate durability and fortitude are offering more and more innovations to consumers in the face of extremely challenging market conditions.
For covering all aspects of our products lters, avours example, in Germany, economic uncertainties and a series including menthol, cigarette formats, packaging and of massive excise increases are just two of the inuences on other tobacco products including snus.
A few of these a tobacco sector characterised by down-trading to cheaper are mentioned in other sections of this Review.
brands, an increase in cross-border and illicit trade and an overall decline in industry volumes.
Yet a combination of price and product mix changes, a significant reduction in the overall cost base and higher cigarette market share driven by strong growth from Pall Mall have enabled us to increase the profit substantially from this key high-margin market.
One market that continues to exceed expectations is Russia.
In the space of little more than 10 years, Russia has grown to become our second largest market in terms of volumes and it continues to go from strength to strength.
Now we are the second largest player, with 20 per cent of the market.
During 2005, the continued focus on our Global Drive Brands and a national expansion led to a better product mix and strong volume and market share growth, resulting in a signicantly higher profit contribution.
Annual Review 2005 British American Tobacco 07 AUSTRALASIA GROWTH IN A CHALLENGING ENVIRONMENT CASE STUDY AUSTRALASIA We are meeting the challenge of creating and maintaining growth in Australasia by continual innovation in our brands.
David Fell, General Manager British American Tobacco, Australasia Impact of regulation Increasing regulation in the form of public smoking bans and product display restrictions in New Zealand, and the removal of product descriptors such as Lights, from all tobacco products in Australia, were some of the obstacles to growth in Australasia in 2005.
In spite of industry declines, growth was led by Dunhill, Wineld and Holiday.
Meeting customer and consumer preferences Product and packaging innovation drove much of this success.
Dunhills growth resulted from the full year effect of the Dunhill Button packaging, while the Signed Range of cigars also grew through a greater focus on distribution and increased efficiency within the primary supply chain.
At a customer level in Australia, we gained leadership of the strategic grocery channel for the first time and share increased in every channel.
This focus on customer satisfaction was recognised by a number of key accounts naming British American Tobacco as the best supplier in the tobacco category, and by winning the best indirect supplier award from the Australasian Association of Convenience Stores for the third consecutive year.
Revitalising Pall Mall In New Zealand, Pall Mall 25s were launched, revitalising the brand, creating market share at year end of 7.6 per cent and contributing signicantly to Global Drive Brand growth.
Pall Mall was also launched in eight variants in Australia in February 2006.
08 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2005 MANAGEMENT REVIEW GROWTH OUR BRANDS Kent Kent achieved its third consecutive year of double-digit growth, with outstanding performances in markets including Russia, Romania and Iran, combined with further global expansion.
39 billion cigarettes sold in 2005 18 per cent increase on 2004 Dunhill In spite of volume declines in 2005, mainly due to price increases driven by excise in Dunhills two biggest markets, Korea and Malaysia, the new Dunhill mix continued to be rolled-out with positive results in all regions.
31 billion cigarettes sold in 2005 4 per cent decrease on 2004 Lucky Strike Lucky Strike achieved record market share and share of the Adult Smokers Under 30 ASU30 category in many major markets in 2005, including Germany, France, Italy, Argentina, Serbia, Brazil and Indonesia.
22 billion cigarettes sold in 2005 2 per cent decrease on 2004 Pall Mall Pall Mall delivered accelerated growth in 2005, driven by organic growth in existing markets, innovation, geographic expansion and growth in other tobacco products including StiX.
33 billion cigarettes sold in 2005 25 per cent increase on 2004 Annual Review 2005 British American Tobacco 09 In 2005, the four Global Drive Brands performed well once again, showing overall growth of 9 per cent.
Global Drive Brands GDBs Lucky Strike In all regions, we are concentrating our efforts on Overall, Lucky Strike volumes in 2005 were slightly down the international, premium, lights and Adult Smokers in the face of declining markets in Western Europe and Under 30 ASU30 segments, because they represent Japan.
Following the global roll-out of the new Original the best opportunities for growing our business.
Our Smoke campaign, packs and blends, significant volume four GDBs and other brands within our portfolio are well growth was achieved in emerging markets.
Sales in represented in these segments.
We are rolling-out our Indonesia exceeded one billion sticks in a calendar year for GDBs consistently around the world.
They are crucial as the first time and sales in Latin America topped 1.5 billion, they drive around a third of our growth in net turnover.
The brand also entered the roll-your-own market with test launches in the UK and In 2005, the four GDBs performed well once again, showing Spain.
Lucky Strike was the first international brand to overall growth of 9 per cent.
launch snus in Sweden, achieving success in the Stockholm Kent test market, and was one of two brands selected for the A commitment to innovation led to another strong year test launch of the product in South Africa.
for Kent, based around the launch of the 3-Tek triple part Pall Mall charcoal lter in Japan, Russia and Romania in late 2004 and Pall Mall delivered its strongest ever organic growth in 2005, in markets including Chile and Ukraine in 2005.
In Russia, with outstanding volume and share performances in most Kent became the leading premium lights brand, while in key markets, including Russia and Malaysia.
Innovation drove Romania, Kent was the leading premium brand with a share much of this success, with the introduction of bevelled of over 11 per cent.
In Japan, Kent Mintek was upgraded, edge Pallm Pacs and Pall Mall Superslims.
The brand also using new technology to deliver an enhanced menthol entered other tobacco categories, resulting in the significant taste, and in Romania, Kent Senso-Tek, using menthol growth of StiX in Germany.
The new brand mix is enabling with three different avour combinations, was introduced markets to launch Pall Mall with a portfolio that is exible as a limited edition offer.
enough to adapt to local needs while maintaining global Dunhill consistency.
In 2005, total Dunhill volumes were down following excise Other key brands Vogue and Viceroy increases in its key markets, South Korea and Malaysia.
Although the progress of our GDBs remains central to However, Dunhill grew market share by 2.6 per cent to our brand portfolio and our Group strategy, we have 14.7 per cent in South Korea, with positive initial results increased the prole of Vogue and Viceroy as brands that from Dunhill Balance and an improved performance in are performing strongly in their respective segments.
Malaysia continued to be Dunhills biggest market in 2005, with 45 per cent market share Vogues success reects the growing importance of and a strong position in ASU30.
Taiwan became Dunhills the super premium segment and, in 2005, volumes third largest market with total shipments up 47 per cent increased over 25 per cent compared to 2004.
Viceroy compared to 2004, strong organic growth and the successful made significant volume progress for the third year launch of Dunhill Fine Cut.
In the Africa and Middle East running, becoming the leading low price international region, the Dunhill Button range performed strongly in brand in four out of its top five markets.
South Africa and the continued roll-out of the Dunhill mix in Europe has good potential in Germany and Russia, where share in Moscow grew to 7 per cent.
10 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2005 MANAGEMENT REVIEW PRODUCTIVITY We are increasing our annual savings target for overheads and indirects to 400 million by 2007.
By using our global resources as effectively as possible, we The Product Complexity Reduction programme, targeting aim to increase profits and generate funds to reinvest in the elimination of consumer irrelevant, historic complexity the business.
Last year saw us take more significant steps across the brand portfolio is well under way and already to improve our productivity, both in terms of our supply providing significant savings.
Progress has also been made chain and overheads and indirects.
in resourcing leaf requirements from fewer locations and towards global pooling of strategic leaf stocks, reducing Supply chain inventory and costs and facilitating blending.
The drive to reduce complexity and costs throughout the primary supply chain continues to accelerate, achieve Overheads and indirects results and produce above target savings.
Total supply In 2005, 103 million was saved from our overheads and chain benets of 106 million in 2005 have brought annual indirect costs those that are not involved in cigarette savings for the first three years of the programme up to production programme, bringing the annualised total since 226 million.
These savings include benets achieved 2003 to 256 million, well on the way to our target of from streamlining manufacturing operations and other 320 million per year by 2007.
As a result, we are increasing efficiencies across areas such as logistics, and the direct this target to annual savings of 400 million by 2007. procurement of packaging materials and leaf.
We expect The savings are being accumulated as we continue to to deliver further supply chain savings in the years ahead.
adopt smarter procurement planning around the Group, Savings resulting from the factory closures in 2003 and led by teams of procurement specialists.
Big inroads are 2004 continue to come through.
Initiatives to reduce being made into a range of cost areas, including IT and excess capacity continued in 2005, as a further five factories transportation.
We are also benefiting from both an increased closed and an additional eight closure programmes were use of shared services and a restructuring of businesses to announced, including Guelph and Aylmer in Canada and better support our strategy.
For example, the integration Southampton in the UK.
In total, Group subsidiaries are of our Smoking Tobacco and Cigars business into markets transferring the manufacture of more than 300 billion in the European region has had a positive impact.
cigarettes to more economic centres of production.
This is a major exercise and involves the transformation of the Groups manufacturing footprint.
There have also been significant downsizings in several factories, including Bayreuth in Germany and Zevenaar in Holland.
In addition, some major productivity gains have been achieved in eight other facilities.
Manufacturing overcapacity has undoubtedly required some difficult decisions.
Job losses of some 4,100 have resulted from closures and downsizings over the past three years.
Our subsidiaries work hard to ensure adequate measures are in place to mitigate the impact on employees and local communities, and help those made redundant.
For example, measures taken in Darlington, UK, resulted in more than 96 per cent of employees being able to retire, nd re-employment, opt for self-employment or choose retraining.
A legacy fund was established to help attract new employment to the town.
Annual Review 2005 British American Tobacco 11 BRAZIL INCREASING EFFICIENCY ACROSS SOUZA CRUZ CASE STUDY BRAZIL At Souza Cruz, we continue to look for new ways to increase our productivity and improve our business performance.
Nicandro Durante, Souza Cruz President in 2005 Director, Africa and Middle East from March 2006 Sharing best practice In working towards greater productivity, Souza Cruz is also increasing its synergy with other British American Tobacco companies.
Examples include the relocation of its Research & Development Centre and printing facilities to the site of its factory in Rio Grande do Sul State, and establishing its R&D facility as a Regional Product Centre, providing expertise and equipment under one roof for Group companies.
Working through partnerships Souza Cruz continues to work closely with external companies through innovative partnerships that cut costs and deliver competitive advantage.
Created in January 2001 as a joint venture between AmBev and Souza Cruz for optimising indirect purchases, AGREGA has expanded over the past two years to include other customers in Brazil, generating annual savings of US$19 million in costs.
The AGREGA business model has been rolled-out to Argentina and, more recently, to Venezuela.
Using its nationwide distribution network, Souza Cruz has also entered into a new relationship with Telemar, Brazils largest telecoms company, for distributing phone cards to retailers, resulting in savings of US$7 million.
12 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2005 MANAGEMENT REVIEW RESPONSIBILITY Harm reduction is not only an integral part of our responsibility strategy but also a key component of long term business sustainability.
We are determined to continue demonstrating that it is Smokeless tobacco does not mean harmless tobacco.
possible to be a responsible tobacco company.
It is the However, snus has been reported by independent best way to build a sustainable business which, in turn, researchers to be much less harmful than cigarettes, and generates shareholder value.
We hope that governments our trials are in response to a number of public health and regulators will eventually understand that their public stakeholders who have told us that they believe snus, policy goals can best be achieved by working with us.
properly regulated, can contribute to reducing the health impact of tobacco.
Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes For the fourth successive year, British American Tobacco Our testing of snus is the first launch of a smokeless continues to be the only tobacco company included in both product under major cigarette brands.
By marketing the DJSI World and DJSI STOXX Indexes.
These independent snus under Lucky Strike and Peter Stuyvesant, we aim indices are an important assessment of the corporate to nd out if we can extend the appeal of snus to more sustainability of an organisation, measuring economic, adult smokers and encourage smokers who have not environmental and social criteria.
British American Tobacco heard of snus to try it.
achieved the best scores across 73 per cent of the categories, We recognise that no tobacco product is completely free including all the environmental criteria for the sector.
from risk but we believe that some product categories, Social reporting and environmental performance such as snus, are much less hazardous than others.
We are During recent years, our financial reporting has been committed to trying to develop and bring to market a new augmented by comprehensive social reporting by many generation of tobacco products that both meet consumer Group companies.
Our fifth social report will be published appeal and will, over time, be recognised by scientific and on bat.
com in late July and it will contain a detailed review regulatory authorities as posing substantially reduced risks of our environmental performance during 2005.
we have continued to lower the environmental impacts Some regulators and anti-tobacco groups reject the of our factories and operations, with reductions in energy, concept of reduced harm products, suggesting that the water usage and carbon dioxide emissions, as well as an approach is ineffective.
Some express concern that such increase in recycling.
products may discourage smokers from quitting, or may Harm reduction lead people to become tobacco consumers who would Harm reduction is not only an integral part of our not otherwise do so.
responsibility strategy but also a key component of long We believe that, although there will certainly be smokers term business sustainability.
Consumers have also told us who quit and people who choose not to smoke, many in social reporting dialogue that developing less harmful informed adults will also continue choosing to smoke or to products is one of the most important things that a consume tobacco in other ways.
We want our consumers tobacco company can do.
to know about the products that could be developed from Our approach currently focuses on exploring ways to reduce a reduced harm approach, so that they can make up their human exposure to tar and toxins across our current brand own minds.
portfolio and how to achieve accepted and accurate measures We seek to work constructively with regulators, scientists and of exposure.
We are also developing and testing technologies public health groups to establish standards for evaluating that we believe have the potential to reduce exposure to how new developments might contribute to a reduced harm harmful toxins and test-marketing smokeless products.
approach, as well as to agree the appropriate messages for consumers about novel products and technologies.
Annual Review 2005 British American Tobacco 13 TEST-MARKETING OF SMOKELESS TOBACCO CASE STUDY SNUS We are testing snus in response to consumers and public health stakeholders as part of our continuing efforts in harm reduction.
Peter Taylor, Director, Operations and IT In May 2005, we began year-long trials of Swedish-style snus in test markets in Stockholm and Johannesburg under two of our best known brands, Lucky Strike and Peter Stuyvesant.
Snus is not smoked but is nely-ground pasteurised moist tobacco that comes in tiny sachets that are placed under the upper lip.
While it has been virtually unknown in South Africa, snus is widely used in Sweden and has overtaken smoking amongst adult tobacco consumers.
Swedish snus has signicantly lower levels of potentially carcinogenic chemicals than some other types of smokeless tobacco.
The early signs in Sweden are very promising.
We expanded distribution from the pilot area to throughout Central Stockholm and to two other major cities, Gothenburg and Malmo.
Consumer and retail interest in the Lucky Strike product is high and sales steady in an increasingly competitive environment.
Taking the results forward Sweden, which has an exemption to a European Union ban on most forms of smokeless tobacco, is the only market within the EU where snus could be launched.
We hope to engage with regulators, including those in the EU, to discuss our learnings from the trials in due course.
14 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2005 MANAGEMENT REVIEW WINNING ORGANISATION Developing talented leaders at all levels with a clear vision for the business remains central to our Winning Organisation strategy.
Creating a Winning Organisation To establish how employee opinion within British American We know that in order to deliver our strategy, it is Tobacco compares with other organisations, the Your Voice essential to create a Winning Organisation with talented survey data was compared with ISRs 2005 benchmark of people working in a culture that encourages dialogue, high performing companies.
This comprises data from a shares knowledge, learns from its mistakes and replicates range of organisations globally who are considered high successful formulas quickly.
performers in financial performance and in general levels of employee satisfaction.
It is also important that our Group strategy and vision are clearly understood by everyone.
This enables employees to In terms of global results, British American Tobacco scored work towards a common goal in which every department, signicantly above or the same as the ISR benchmark in market and function plays an important part.
over half of the categories.
91 per cent of employees expressed a strong sense of pride in working for the Developing talented leaders at all levels with a clear vision Company and over 85 per cent believed that individuals for the business remains central to our Winning Organisation and teams continually aimed to improve their performance.
strategy and to the Group strategy as a whole.
Given the challenges and opportunities presented by the external The Your Voice results are enabling us to analyse and environment, coupled with the speed of change in the address areas of concern among employees both globally market place, it is essential to grow and nurture the next and on a local level.
Around the world, management generation of leaders.
To that end, we remain committed to teams will be turning the results into tangible change attracting, recruiting and retaining the best people, whether management plans in order to make British American they join us as graduates or in mid-career.
In 2005, 115 Tobacco an even more successful company.
graduates joined our Management Trainee scheme and since 1996, the programme has recruited 1,150 graduates.
Employee opinion research We are committed to creating an environment where employees feel that they can speak honestly about the Company and issues of importance to them.
We run annual employee surveys with International Survey Research ISR and, in October 2005, we conducted our most comprehensive survey to date.
The survey, Your Voice 2005, obtained opinions from over 35,000 employees based in over 60 markets across our five regions, with an overall response rate of 80 per cent.
The 16 categories in the survey included those which relate directly to our vision of a Winning Organisation Leadership, Alignment, Learning, Culture and Talent as well as categories relating to our Core Beliefs and Guiding Principles.
Annual Review 2005 British American Tobacco 15 USING LEADERSHIP TO DRIVE CHANGE IN EQUATORIAL AFRICA CASE STUDY EQUATORIAL AFRICA Our leadership initiative has made a real difference to performance across all areas of our business.
Brian Finch, Area Marketing Manager in 2005 Marketing Director, South Africa from March 2006 In 2004, the senior management of the Equatorial Africa EquatA area launched Safari Yetu Our Journey, a leadership initiative that built on the merger earlier that year of our former Eastern and Southern Africa areas, totalling 22 countries.
Spanning 16 project initiatives covering the four elements of the global strategy, Safari Yetu has helped EquatA to deliver outstanding results as well as generate an entrepreneurial spirit among employees.
Building success EquatAs performance has been underpinned by a high level of development, training and mentoring.
Senior management each mentor a minimum of two high-achieving employees and there has been a significant increase in emphasis on developing local talent.
There are now around 50 EquatA employees who are working in markets other than in their home market.
The Safari Yetu awards, which recognise the exceptional achievements of teams, individuals, markets and projects within EquatA, have also helped to create a huge sense of enthusiasm and pride across the area.
Making a difference In 2005, the area achieved underlying growth of over 11 per cent and has also delivered incremental cost savings in excess of 3 million.
Special feature South Africa South Africa is making a major contribution to the Group through the successful implementation of our strategy.
Tobacco in South Africa has a long history.
Tobacco was first cultivated over 350 years ago and the first factory opened in the 1880s.
Today, the industry provides a living for more than 100,000 people and contributes over R7 billion to the Government in excise and VAT.
In the last 10 years, excise on cigarettes has increased nearly five-fold and has contributed to the dramatic rise in illicit trade in tobacco products.
Despite this challenge, British American Tobacco South Africa is winning in an industry of approximately 29 billion cigarettes.
It is one of the Groups most important and top performing companies.
Our origins in South Africa can be traced back to the creation of the United Tobacco Company in 1904.
With the global merger of British American Tobacco with Rothmans International in 1999, we became South Africas largest manufacturer of cigarettes.
British American Tobacco South Africa has over 90 per cent of the legitimate cigarette market and more than 70 per cent share of the total legitimate tobacco market, in a country where one out of every four adults chooses to smoke or use tobacco products.
The Company employs some 2,400 people, sells 27 brands and produces about 22 billion cigarettes annually for the local market and 7 billion for export.
It also purchases up to 60 per cent of the annual South African tobacco leaf crop for local and export production.
Our strategy in action In the following pages, you can nd out how British American Tobacco South Africa is making a major contribution to the Group through the successful implementation of our strategy based around Growth, Productivity, Responsibility and Winning Organisation.
This success is driven by a combination of initiatives that show our Group strategy working at market level.
These include rejuvenating brands to accelerate growth, achieving cost savings, engaging with stakeholders on key issues including illicit trade, and maintaining a strong commitment to corporate social investment.
Underpinning everything is the development of a Winning Organisation culture.
None of the elements of our strategy can work in isolation for it to succeed at market, regional or Group level.
An integrated approach is enabling British American Tobacco South Africa to achieve the impressive quantitative and qualitative results that consistently make it one of our outstanding companies.
Consumers at a bar near Cape Town Front cover: A tobacco grader at a farm in the Mpumalanga province Growth through brand strength In South Africa, our four key brands Peter Stuyvesant, Lucky Strike, Dunhill and Rothmans have achieved consistent growth in recent years, increasing their combined market share from 51.9 per cent in 2000 to 57.8 per cent in 2005.
Of these brands, Dunhill is the leader in the Premium segment with a growing share of the Adult Smokers Under 30 ASU30 segment, chiey as a result of a pack change to the Button range, positive performance in the Lights and Menthol segments and the launch of Dunhill Fine Cut.
Peter Stuyvesant, however, is South Africas most popular cigarette and the primary source of profit for the Company.
The successful launch of a new pack in August 2004 helped to increase market share to 44.5 per cent in 2005 and the brand continues to have a leading share 63.8 per cent of the ASU30 segment.
The new pack also features a number of enhancements that have helped to reduce counterfeit product.
Peter Stuyvesant was also selected, together with Lucky Strike, for a 12 month trial of snus from May 2005.
Snus, a much less harmful, smokeless tobacco product, is sold at 241 tobacco outlets in the province of Gauteng.
Peter Stuyvesant, South Africas most popular cigarette and the primary source of profit for the Company.
Productivity: Creating greater efficiency across the business In line with our global programme to reduce complexity and indirect costs across our operations, South Africa has delivered cumulative savings 30 per cent over its initial target for 2005.
This was achieved through strategic sourcing of goods and materials by a team of indirect procurement professionals working closely with other functions.
Improvements in supply chain efficiency have also led to better utilisation of resources and greater productivity in a variety of areas, with exports of metallised paper the silver paper found inside cigarette packets, cigarettes and cutrag tobacco processed tobacco leaf before manufacture into cigarettes to other markets in the Africa and Middle East region signicantly increasing.
The massive growth in exports has demanded a similar increase in logistics efficiency across despatch, container handling and storage.
Both air and sea freight are now used to deliver cigarettes to other markets and a new storage facility was opened at the Heidelberg factory in May 2005 to provide greater capacity for cutrag tobacco.
Expansion of Heidelbergs manufacturing capacity has led to a subsequent downscaling of facilities at our Paarl factory, located in the Western Cape.
A tobacconist in Johannesburg Responsibility: A multiple approach British American Tobacco South Africa spends over R30 million annually on corporate social investment and focuses its work on four core areas: HIV AIDS, black economic empowerment, sustainable agriculture and civic life.
Projects supported include the Manenberg Peoples Centre in Cape Town, which gives unemployed women from the ages of 18 to 34 the opportunity to learn new skills such as gardening, IT and hairdressing.
The Centre trains around 70 women every year, with several intakes of trainees to maximise the number of people who can benefit.
All training is part-time to allow mothers to spend time with their families.
Produce grown in the Manenberg garden is available for the local community to buy and dedicated support is given to trainees as they look for their first jobs.
British American Tobacco South Africa recognises that a well-run business can and should help local communities to achieve economic, social and environmental development.
The British American Tobacco South Africa Scholarship Fund assists university students from previously disadvantaged communities to read for degrees in commerce, engineering, business science and IT.
More than 500 students from 14 universities around the country are currently receiving full scholarships or other educational support.
The threat of HIV AIDS is addressed through the Companys Signature Trust, launched in 2003 to raise awareness of HIV AIDS and address its impact on South Africas disadvantaged communities.
Among other activities, the Trust is currently involved in a three-year partnership with Siyaya, an innovative music group based in the Western Cape, which uses songs and performance to convey health messages and encourage responsible behaviour.
In the last six months of 2005, Siyaya reached more than 70,000 people and the group will continue touring rural communities during 2006.
South Africa was also among the first of our markets to produce a Social Report in 2002 and has received three awards for social reporting since then, most recently the 2004 Best Sustainability Report in South Africa award from the national Association of Chartered Certied Accountants.
Previous photo: Employees at the Heidelberg factory Women attending an induction session at the Manenberg Peoples Centre Creating a Winning Organisation With around 6 per cent of its payroll allocated to development and training, British American Tobacco is currently regarded as one of the top three investors in people in South Africa.
The Companys programmes are specically designed to enable it to build on its success, supported by excellence across functions and departments.
All 2,400 employees have been included in at least one of its initiatives, which aim to create a Winning Organisation through building a culture of leadership at all levels.
The employees on the opposite page represent the diversity and talent that is found throughout the business.
The Company enjoys a high staff retention level and over 50 per cent of employees have been with the Company for over 10 years.
They include Jacob Nkosi, a Training Foreman, who has worked at the Heidelberg factory in various roles for 30 years.
Others come mid-career to nd new opportunities, such as Fay Kajee, who joined five years ago and, in 2005, was promoted to Head of Corporate and Regulatory Affairs, becoming the first woman to join the Management Board of British American Tobacco South Africa.
Attracting, developing and retaining talented people lies at the heart of the approach to creating a Winning Organisation.
Former Management Trainee Gabeba Gaidien, who works in internal audit, was sponsored by our Scholarship Fund at the University of Stellenbosch and joined the Company two years ago.
Our OneLeader initiative aims to develop leadership style, emotional intelligence, a team climate and coaching skills.
It focuses on the formation of coaching circles, providing opportunities for teams to coach each other.
By the end of 2005, 320 managers had participated in the programme, 45 coaching circles were active across the organisation and 195 coaching relationships existed across all functions.
John Feller, responsible for marketing development, is one of those managers providing the energy and commitment to make the programme successful.
Through accelerated development, 70 non-managers have participated in the Growth Academy Programme that aims to develop employees from within and create a future pool of leaders, with over half already promoted into management roles.
The investment in people, training and development is enabling British American Tobacco South Africa to reap rewards in terms of business performance across all of its operations.
To nd out more information about British American Tobacco in South Africa, please visit www.
co. za Clockwise from top left: Jacob Nkosi, Fay Kajee, John Feller, Gabeba Gaidien Back cover: Siyaya, working in partnership with the Signature Trust to promote HIV AIDS awareness 16 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2005 MANAGEMENT REVIEW REGIONAL SUMMARY profit by region On a comparable basis, profit was lower with reductions in both Canada and Japan Particularly strong growth in Russia and Germany resulted in higher profit Reynolds American results demonstrated the success of the 2004 business combination Increased profit from good profit grew with excellent Higher profit with performances and stronger growth in South Africa good performances in currencies in many markets Australasia and Pakistan Cigarette volumes 36% 20% 22% 15% 7% Revenue Europe 37% 19% 17% 15% 12% Asia-Pacic Latin America Africa and Middle East Operating profit America-Pacic Associates 28% 20% 20% 16% 16% To nd out more information about our performance please visit www.
com investorcentre Annual Review 2005 British American Tobacco 17 On a like-for-like basis, profit from operations would have been 9 per cent higher.
The reported Group profit from operations was 36 per cent In Italy, an excise increase at the end of 2004 and the virtual lower at 2,420 million, mainly due to the impact in 2004 ban on indoor public smoking effective from the beginning of of a significant 1,389 million gain on the Reynolds American 2005, resulted in a total market decline of around 6 per cent, transaction.
As explained on page 20, on a like-for-like with aggressive competition mainly in the low-price segment.
basis profit from operations would have been 9 per cent Despite lower volumes and market share, like-for-like profit higher, or 5 per cent at constant rates of exchange.
This rose, benefiting from higher prices.
like-for-like information provides a better understanding Germany grew market share and substantially increased of the subsidiaries trading results.
The strong profit profit, despite lower volumes in a reduced overall market performance reected higher profit in all regions, except due to excise increases.
profit growth was driven by pricing, America-Pacic.
improved product mix and significant reductions in the On a reported basis, Group volumes from subsidiaries were overall cost base.
Increased market share resulted from affected by the transactions noted on page 20, resulting gains by Lucky Strike and Pall Mall.
in a decrease of 1 per cent to 678 billion.
Excluding the In France, profit grew impressively with higher volumes and impact of these transactions, there was good organic market share growth through Lucky Strike and Pall Mall.
volume growth from subsidiaries, with many markets profits benefited from the improved mix, better pricing contributing to the overall growth of 2 per cent, growing and lower costs.
In Switzerland, industry volumes declined from 663 billion to 676 billion.
The Group continues to after an excise increase at the end of 2004 but the key include make-your-own cigarette stix in volumes.
brands, Lucky Strike, Pall Mall, Vogue and Parisienne, all The four Global Drive Brands performed well with an overall grew market share.
However, the tough trading conditions growth of 9 per cent on a like-for-like basis.
Kent grew by affected profit.
In the Netherlands and Belgium, the very 18 per cent with outstanding performances in its major successful integration of the Smoking Tobacco and Cigars markets of Russia and Romania, as well as a higher share business, as well as other cost savings, more than offset in Japan.
Dunhill was down 4 per cent, affected by the the effect of lower volumes on profit.
substantially reduced industry volumes in South Korea earlier Russia continued its excellent performance with strong profit this year, as well as in Malaysia.
Lucky Strike was 2 per cent and volume growth.
Market share was up and product mix lower mainly as a result of reduced market volumes in improved with further growth from the premium brands, Germany.
Pall Mall continued its exceptional growth of Kent and Vogue.
The focus on international brands continued 25 per cent as it performed well in all its key markets.
with the launch of Viceroy, the introduction of the new Europe Pall Mall range and the roll-out of Dunhill to the top In Europe, profit increased by 34 million to 784 million, 30 cities.
In Romania, good Global Drive Brand growth, with particularly strong growth from Russia and Germany.
especially from Kent and Pall Mall, and higher total market The integration of the Smoking Tobacco and Cigars business share, reinforced the Groups market leadership position.
in 2005, other cost savings and the positive impact of the Strong profit growth was achieved by an improved mix, change in trade terms in Italy, also contributed to the result.
Excluding a net 30 million gain as a result of the sale of profit in Ukraine was lower due to reduced volumes, Etinera at the end of 2004, partly offset by the consequent although there were good performances from Kent and change in terms of trade, profit on a like-for-like basis would Vogue.
In Hungary, profit was higher as a result of higher have increased by 64 million or 9 per cent.
Volumes were margins and reduced costs.
Pall Mall grew but volumes 2 per cent higher at 244 billion with growth in Russia, were adversely impacted by a continuing total market Romania and Poland, partly offset by declines in Italy, decline and down-trading.
In Poland, volumes and profits Germany, Switzerland and Ukraine.
grew with good results from Vogue and Viceroy.
18 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2005 MANAGEMENT REVIEW REGIONAL SUMMARY continued Asia-Pacic of the real, partly offset by higher marketing investment In Asia-Pacic, profit rose by 36 million to 531 million as and lower export leaf margins impacted by the currency good performances in Australasia and Pakistan, a benefit in appreciation.
Volumes grew impressively, while anti-illicit the first quarter from the timing of an excise payment in trade initiatives reduced both counterfeit and contraband South Korea and good results from many of its other markets, volumes.
more than covered the reductions in Malaysia and Vietnam.
Good profit growth in Mexico was driven by price increases, Volumes at 137 billion were 4 per cent higher as strong an improved product mix, lower costs and a stronger local increases in Pakistan and Bangladesh were partially offset currency, partly offset by lower volumes as the total market by declines in South Korea, Vietnam and Malaysia.
declined and market share fell in the low-price segment.
profit grew strongly in Australia, with higher margins and In Argentina, profit was down as the benefit from price market share due to good performances from Dunhill and increases was offset by marketing investment, coupled with Wineld, and despite increased competitor activity and lower volumes due to a temporary excise tax advantage lower volumes in a reduced total market.
In New Zealand, for local ultra low-price manufacturers.
The volume loss profit increased as margins were higher, although market has now been reversed with the launch of Viceroy.
share was slightly down as a result of the growth of the In Chile, profit rose substantially with volumes and market low-price segment.
share up, higher margins and a stronger currency.
Venezuelas In Malaysia, a further excise tax increase depressed industry excellent profit growth was the result of increased margins volumes.
Market share was only marginally lower but profit and good market share gains, following a general recovery was impacted by the lower volumes, adverse product mix, in consumer purchasing power and a reduction in illicit price competition and the contribution to a government trade.
An impressive profit increase in Peru was achieved sponsored leaf programme.
In Vietnam, volumes were through new marketing initiatives and a lower cost base, lower as a result of inventory adjustments leading to a following the closure of manufacturing facilities.
The Central decline in volumes and profit, although the market share America and Caribbean area showed strong profit growth of State Express 555 and Craven A continued to grow.
as volumes and market shares increased, with margins benefiting from factory rationalisation.
South Koreas higher profit reected the first quarter excise benefit and productivity gains.
Volumes were only Africa and Middle East slightly down while the market was signicantly lower, profit in the Africa and Middle East region grew by due to stocking by the trade before the excise increase.
74 million to 434 million, mainly driven by South Africa Dunhill continued to grow market share, while Vogue and reduced losses from Turkey.
Volumes grew by 5 per cent grew strongly after it was relaunched in August.
to 103 billion with strong growth from the Middle East markets and Turkey.
In Pakistan, profit was well ahead with lower costs and excellent volume growth by Gold Flake and John Player In South Africa, good profit growth was achieved with Gold Leaf, resulting in a higher market share and industry higher margins, as well as a stronger currency.
Volumes rose in Bangladesh but profit the product mix improved as Peter Stuyvesant continued fell as down-trading continued and higher excise and the its growth.
These benets were partially offset by lower inationary impact on costs were not recovered through volumes as the total legal market declined following higher prices.
In Sri Lanka, good profit growth was achieved further inroads from illicit trade.
Market share in Nigeria through lower costs, an improved product mix and higher increased strongly, as the Benson & Hedges and London volumes, with strong performances by John Player Gold Leaf brands maintained share growth while the authorities and Benson & Hedges.
continued to address illicit trade.
Latin America Strong volume growth in Iran, mainly from Kent and In Latin America, profit increased by 82 million to Montana, resulted in increased profit.
The Arabian Gulf 530 million as good performances across the region markets increased profit as costs were reduced and volumes reected higher volumes and margins, further helped by were higher.
stronger currencies in many of the markets.
Volumes at Geographical expansion continued with investment in 149 billion increased slightly as growth in many markets new markets but this had some adverse effect on profit.
was partly offset by declines in Mexico and Argentina.
Turkey continued to progress despite further excise changes In Brazil, profit increased strongly with improved margins and price volatility.
Volumes almost doubled, principally and product mix, higher volumes and the strengthening driven by the strong performance of Viceroy, while Pall Mall Annual Review 2005 British American Tobacco 19 was relaunched.
Tight cost control continued and combined Unallocated costs with the strong volume gains, resulted in signicantly Corporate costs not directly attributable to individual reduced losses.
segments were down 7 million to 96 million, due to lower costs and higher income.
America-Pacic On a like-for-like basis, the America-Pacic regional The above regional profits were achieved before accounting profit declined by 54 million to 436 million, with for restructuring costs, investment costs written off and lower contributions from both Canada and Japan.
gains on the disposal of subsidiaries, joint ventures, Increased volumes in Japan were more than offset by non-current investments and brands see page 20. a decrease in Canada, leading to an overall decline of Results of associates 2 per cent.
As the comparative period included the US The Groups share of the post-tax results of associates tobacco businesses now merged with R. J. Reynolds and increased by 266 million to 392 million, reecting the included in associates see page 20, the reported regional inclusion of 244 million for Reynolds American following volumes were 34 per cent lower at 45 billion and reported the transaction described on page 20.
On a pro forma US profit was 203 million down.
GAAP basis, as if the combination with Brown & Williamson profit from Canada was 24 million lower at 319 million.
had been completed as of 1 January 2004, Reynolds American The volume decline, due to significant industry contraction reported that operating profit for the year increased by and the continuing shift to low-price products, more than 35 per cent and net income rose by 29 per cent.
These offset lower operating costs, as a result of restructuring, and results demonstrate the success of the business combination.
the impact of the stronger Canadian dollar.
The decline The higher income principally reected improved pricing in total market share slowed and was down two share and merger synergies.
points at 56 per cent, as Imperial increased its share of The Groups associate company in India, ITC, continued the low-price segment.
Premium segment share was only its strong volume growth, leading to an increased profit, slightly down but this segment shrank nine share points assisted further by one-off items.
to 59 per cent of the total market.
Associates volumes increased from 167 billion to 232 billion In Japan, market share and volumes were up, with and, with the inclusion of these, total Group volumes would particularly strong growth by Kool and Kent, and there was be 910 billion 2004: 853 billion.
a better product mix and lower costs.
profit, however, was affected by the non-recurrence of a benefit from a business With effect from 1 January 2005, the Group has changed reorganisation included in the prior year and costs associated its regional structure, with South Korea included in with an age verication project for vending machines.
Asia-Pacic rather than the America-Pacic region.
The regional analyses below have been restated for this change.
Regional data Volumes Revenue Operating profit 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 bns bns m m m m Europe 244.0 240.2 3,497 4,452 784 750 Asia-Pacic 137.1 131.7 1,758 1,629 531 495 Latin America 149.3 147.6 1,555 1,273 530 448 Africa and Middle East 102.6 97.6 1,405 1,339 434 360 America-Pacic 45.0 68.4 1,110 2,075 436 639 678.0 685.5 9,325 10,768 2,715 2,692 Unallocated costs 96 103 Operating profit before exceptional items page 20 2,619 2,589 Revenue and operating profit, before exceptional items, restated at comparable rates of exchange page 20 9,014 10,768 2,515 2,589 20 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2005 FINANCIAL REVIEW As explained on page 26, from 1 January 2005 the The Group continued its review of manufacturing operations Group is reporting under International Financial Reporting and organisational structure, including the initiative to Standards IFRS.
The changes in presentation required reduce overheads and indirect costs.
Major announcements by IFRS have made the reporting of performance more in 2005 covered the cessation of production in the UK, complex and have been complicated still further by Ireland and Canada, with production to be transferred important changes in the Group that took place in 2004. elsewhere.
Restructuring charges in total for 2005 were 271 million compared to 206 million in 2004. profit from operations like-for-like profit from operations in 2005 also benefited from a 2005 2,607m 72 million gain, principally in respect of the disposal of certain trademarks in Malta, Cyprus and Lithuania.
In 2004 2,398m 2004, there was a gain of 38 million on the disposal of The reported Group profit from operations was non-current investments and a 50 million cost for writing 36 per cent lower at 2,420 million, due to a number of off costs previously capitalised on a project to establish a distorting factors but principally the gain on the Reynolds major strategic investment in China.
The table below shows Below profit from operations, net finance costs at like-for-like operating profit after excluding restructuring 224 million were 32 million lower than last year, costs, investment costs written off and gains on disposal principally reecting the impact of derivatives and of subsidiaries, joint ventures, non-current investments exchange differences under IFRS, together with the and brands, as well as the Brown & Williamson B&W, benefit of the Groups improved cash ow.
Lane and Etinera operating profit, and the resultant change in terms of trade in Italy.
2005 2004 Interest cover m m 2005 8.8x profit from operations page 24 2,420 3,760 2004 7.9x Exceptional items page 24 199 1,171 B&W and Lane 149 The Group assesses its financial capacity by reference Etinera 12 42 to cash ow and interest cover.
Interest cover is distorted 2,607 2,398 by the pre-tax impact of the exceptional items and net finance cost distortions reected in the adjusted earnings On this basis, the operating profit for 2005 of 2,607 million per share as explained on page 21.
The chart above shows would represent growth of 9 per cent.
The results benefited the cover, adjusting for these items, on the basis of profit from the weakness of sterling against many currencies and before interest payable over interest payable.
The interest profit at constant rates of exchange would have risen by cover remains strong at 8.8x 2004: 7.9x, with the higher 5 per cent.
cover reecting the increase in underlying profit.
Details of the Groups operating performance can be found At 31 December 2005, the ratio of oating to xed rate on pages 16 to 19. financial liabilities was 55:45 2004: 52:48.
The principal distortion in the headline profit from As explained on page 19, the Groups share of post-tax operations was due to the agreement to combine the results of associates, included at the pre-tax level under Groups US domestic businesses with R. J. Reynolds at the IFRS, increased by 266 million to 392 million, after end of July 2004, which resulted in a gain of 1,389 million exceptional net income of 3 million 2004: 63 million on the partial disposal of the US business and was included expense.
The exceptional items are shown as memorandum in the profit from operations.
The 2004 profit from information on the Group income statement page 24. operations also included a contribution from the US Despite the good underlying performance, profit before businesses of 149 million for the period to July 2004. tax was down 1,042 million at 2,588 million, principally In December 2004, the Group sold Etinera, the distribution reecting the gain on the disposal of subsidiaries in the business of the Italian subsidiary.
Although there was no gain 2004 comparative.
on the disposal, the Group profit from operations in 2004 is estimated to include 42 million from the Etinera operations.
Annual Review 2005 British American Tobacco 21 Effective tax rate subsidiaries On this basis, the earnings per share are 89.34p, a 17 per cent increase over 2004, benefiting from the 2005 31.4% improved underlying operating profit and reduced net 2004 31.7% finance costs, as well as the impact of the Reynolds American transaction and the share buy-back programme.
The tax rates in the income statement of 26.7 per cent in 2005 and 18.5 per cent in 2004 are affected by the Dividends per share declared inclusion of the share of associates post-tax profit in the Groups pre-tax results and the significant gain on the 2005 47.0p Reynolds American transaction in 2004.
The underlying 2004 41.9p tax rate for subsidiaries, adjusted to remove the distortions as reected in the adjusted earnings per share below, was With the recommended final dividend of 33.0p, the 31.4 per cent in 2005 and 31.7 per cent in 2004, and the total dividends per share declared for 2005 are 47.0p, up decrease reects changes in the mix of profits.
12 per cent on the prior year.
Under IFRS, the recommended final dividend in respect of a year is only provided in the Adjusted diluted earnings per share accounts of the following year.
Therefore, the 2005 accounts reect the 2004 final dividend and the 2005 interim 2005 89.34p dividend amounting to 43.2p 910 million in total 2004 76.62p 2004: 39.7p 856 million.
The table below shows the dividends declared in respect of 2005 and 2004.
Our policy is to pay out as dividends at least 50 per cent of long term sustainable earnings.
Dividends per share With the distortions that can occur in profit over the declared for 2005 represent 52.6 per cent of adjusted years, as well as the potential dilutive effect of employee fully-diluted earnings per share 2004: 54.7 per cent.
share schemes and the convertible redeemable preference shares in 2004, earnings per share is best viewed on Total equity was 760 million higher at 6,877 million.
the basis of adjusted diluted earnings per share.
This This reected the profit retained after payment of dividends, removes the impact of exceptional items which are which more than offset the impact of the share buy-back shown as memorandum information in the Group programme.
In addition, exchange movements had a income statement on page 24.
The main items are 421 million positive impact on shareholders funds, gains in respect of disposals of subsidiaries and brands, reecting the general weakness of sterling.
The adoption partly offset by restructuring costs.
In addition, the of IFRS for financial instruments from 1 January 2005 calculation adjusts for certain distortions in net finance reduced the total equity at that date by 42 million.
costs arising under IFRS, as well as reecting the impact of the potential conversion of shares.
Dividends declared 2005 2004 Pence Pence per share m per share m Ordinary shares Interim 2005 paid 14 September 2005 14.0 293 12.7 271 Final 2005 payable 4 May 2006 33.0 684 29.2 617 47.0 977 41.9 888 Convertible redeemable preference shares Amortisation of discount 8 8 22 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2005 FINANCIAL REVIEW continued Cash ow 2005 2004 m m Net cash from operating activities before restructuring costs 2,467 2,194 Restructuring costs 143 214 Net cash from operating activities 2,324 1,980 Net interest 231 215 Net capital expenditure 378 306 Dividends to minority interests 133 123 Free cash ow 1,582 1,336 Dividends paid to shareholders 910 856 Share buy-back 501 492 Other net ows 49 109 Net cash ows 122 97 IFRS cash ow Net cash from operating activities 2,324 1,980 Net cash from investing activities 292 29 Net cash from nancing activities 2,147 2,193 Net cash ows 115 242 The IFRS cash ow includes all transactions affecting cash repayment of borrowings, the above ows resulted in a and cash equivalents, including nancing.
The alternative net decrease of cash and cash equivalents of 115 million, cash ow above is presented to illustrate the cash ows compared to a net decrease of 242 million in 2004. before transactions relating to borrowings.
These cash ows, after an exchange benefit of 49 million, The Groups net cash ow from operating activities at resulted in cash and cash equivalents, net of overdrafts, 2,324 million was 344 million higher, with the growth in decreasing by 66 million in 2005. underlying operating performance.
Cash ows also benefited Borrowings, excluding overdrafts but taking into account from timing of working capital while, with 112 million derivatives relating to borrowings, were 6,985 million additional dividends from associates following the Reynolds at 31 December 2004.
The adoption of IAS32 and IAS39 American transaction, the disposal of subsidiaries in 2004 on financial instruments from 1 January 2005 resulted did not materially affect operating ows.
The reduced in a 121 million increase in this gure to 7,106 million, restructuring ows were offset by a 59 million rise in principally due to the reclassication of interest accruals tax outows reecting higher profits and the timing of to borrowings from elsewhere in the balance sheet.
After higher net interest, net capital expenditure The marginal increase in this gure during the year to and dividends paid to minorities, the free cash ow is 7,113 million at 31 December 2005 principally reected 1,582 million, up 246 million on 2004.
This inow exceeds a net repayment of borrowings of 136 million offset by the total cash outlay on dividends to shareholders and the impact of exchange.
Current available-for-sale investments at 31 December The other net ows in 2005 mainly arise from the acquisition 2005 were 96 million 31 December 2004: 86 million.
of further shares in the Groups Danish associate and the acquisition of Restomat AG in Switzerland, partly offset by Treasury operations the proceeds of the brand sale to Gallaher.
The other net Treasury is tasked with raising finance for the Group, ows in 2004 principally reect the sale of Etinera in Italy managing the financial risks arising from underlying and the disposal of non-current investments, partly offset by operations and managing the Groups cash resources.
the outow in respect of the Reynolds American transaction.
All these activities are carried out under dened policies, procedures and limits.
The above ows resulted in net cash ows of 122 million compared to 97 million in 2004.
After taking account The Board reviews and agrees the overall treasury policies of transactions related to borrowings, especially the net and procedures, delegating appropriate authority to the Annual Review 2005 British American Tobacco 23 Finance Director, the Treasury function and the boards of ceased to consolidate BAR from that date.
On 7 January 2005, the central finance companies.
The Finance Director chairs a joint venture BARH between British American Tobacco the boards of the major central finance companies.
Any and Honda Motor Co. Ltd. acquired the BAR business.
significant departure from agreed policies is subject to the On 4 October 2005, the Group announced that it had prior approval of the Board.
agreed the sale of its 55 per cent shareholding in BARH to Honda and the sale was completed on 20 December Clear parameters have been established, including levels 2005.
For the period 7 January 2005 to 20 December of authority, on the type and use of financial instruments 2005, BARH has been equity accounted, reecting shared to manage the financial risks facing the Group.
instruments are only transacted if they relate to an underlying exposure: speculative transactions are expressly On 21 October 2005, the Group announced the exercise forbidden under the Groups treasury policy.
The Groups of its pre-emption rights over shares in STK, its Danish treasury position is monitored by the Group Treasury associated company, and the transaction was completed Committee, which meets eight times a year and is chaired on 12 December 2005.
This increased the Groups holding by the Finance Director.
Regular reports are provided to from 26.6 per cent to 32.3 per cent at a cost of 95 million, senior management and treasury operations are subject resulting in goodwill of 69 million.
to periodic independent reviews and audits, both internal On 25 November 2005, the Group acquired Restomat AG, and external.
the largest operator of cigarette vending machines in One of the principal responsibilities of Treasury is Switzerland, at a cost of 25 million, resulting in goodwill to manage the financial risk arising from the Groups of 7 million.
Specically, Treasury manages, Share buy-back programme within an overall policy framework, the Groups exposure The Group initiated an on-market share buy-back to funding and liquidity, interest rate, foreign exchange programme at the end of February 2003.
Derivative contracts are only 45 million shares were bought at a cost of 501 million entered into to facilitate the management of these risks.
2004: 59 million shares at a cost of 492 million.
In 2004, the Group issued one bond maturing in 2011, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS which raised 1 billion: the proceeds were used to As noted on page 26, with the transition to IFRS the renance maturing bond issues.
In addition, the Groups comparative gures for 2004 have been restated to IFRS.
central banking facility was renewed for an increased In the Report and Accounts for 2004 the impact of this amount of 1.5 billion and on improved terms.
In particular, change to IFRS on the 2004 results was explained.
This 1.0 billion of the facility was renewed for an extended explanation was based on IFRS expected, at that date, term of five years, with 500 million continuing with a to apply for Group reporting in 2005.
Subsequent IFRS one year term.
changes have only had a minor impact on the restatement During 2005, the Group issued one further bond maturing of the 2004 gures.
in 2012, which raised 750 million: the proceeds were The effect on the profit for the year to 31 December 2004 used to renance maturing bond issues.
In addition, was an increase of 1,733 million to 2,957 million.
This the Groups central banking facility was renewed for an was principally due to 1,262 million in respect of disposal increased amount of 1.75 billion for a term of five years of subsidiaries, 918 million of which was recognised with two additional one year extension options and on outside of the income statement under UK GAAP and signicantly improved terms.
344 million of which arose from applying IFRS to the The Group continues to target investment-grade credit transactions.
In addition, goodwill is not amortised under ratings: as at the end of 2005, the ratings from Moodys IFRS, which added 491 million to the profit.
and S&P were Baa 1 BBB end 2004: Baa 1 BBB.
The effect on shareholders funds as at 31 December 2004 The strength of the ratings has underpinned the success of was an increase of 699 million.
This principally arose from the debt issuance during 2004 and 2005 and the Group the non-accrual of the final dividend 617 million and continues to enjoy full access to the debt capital markets.
non-amortisation of goodwill 473 million, partly offset Changes in the Group by the recognition of post-retirement benefit liabilities The Group ceased to be the controlling company of British 237 million, the impact of IFRS on associates 84 million American Racing Holdings Ltd. BAR on 8 December 2004, and higher deferred tax 65 million.
when BAR went into administration.
The Group consequently 24 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2005 SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT AND NOTES Group income statement for the year ended 31 December 2005 2004 m m Gross turnover including duty, excise and other taxes of 14,659m 2004: 21,065m 23,984 31,833 Revenue 9,325 10,768 Raw materials and consumables used 2,760 2,670 Purchase of nished goods by distribution business 1,086 Changes in inventories of nished goods and work in progress 2 4 Employee benefit costs 1,557 1,686 Depreciation and amortisation costs 383 375 Other operating income 179 1,595 Other operating expenses 2,382 2,790 profit from operations 2,420 3,760 after charging crediting restructuring costs 271 206 investment costs written off 50 gains on disposal of subsidiaries, joint ventures, non-current investments and brands 72 1,427 Finance income 118 112 Finance costs 342 368 Net finance costs 224 256 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 392 126 after charging crediting restructuring costs 13 63 US Federal tobacco buy-out 12 brand impairments 29 49 exceptional tax credits and other impairments 57 49 profit before taxation 2,588 3,630 Taxation on ordinary activities 690 673 profit for the year 1,898 2,957 Attributable to: Shareholders equity 1,771 2,827 Minority interests 127 130 Earnings per share: Basic 84.53p 133.43p Diluted 83.85p 131.12p Annual Review 2005 British American Tobacco 25 Group balance sheet at 31 December 2005 2004 m m Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 7,987 7,700 Property, plant and equipment 2,327 2,162 Investments in associates and joint ventures 2,193 1,717 Retirement benefit assets 35 16 Deferred tax assets 290 246 Trade and other receivables 197 188 Available-for-sale investments 27 14 Derivative financial instruments 87 52 Total non-current assets 13,143 12,095 Current assets Inventories 2,274 2,143 Income tax receivable 81 51 Trade and other receivables 1,577 1,422 Available-for-sale investments 96 86 Derivative financial instruments 86 127 Cash and cash equivalents 1,790 1,851 Total current assets 5,904 5,680 Total assets 19,047 17,775 Equity Total equity 6,877 6,117 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Borrowings 5,054 6,049 Retirement benefit liabilities 543 548 Deferred tax liabilities 277 233 Other provisions for liabilities and charges 261 213 Trade and other payables 180 144 Derivative financial instruments 19 31 Total non-current liabilities 6,334 7,218 Current liabilities Borrowings 2,202 1,139 Income tax payable 374 352 Other provisions for liabilities and charges 234 228 Trade and other payables 2,883 2,682 Derivative financial instruments 143 39 Total current liabilities 5,836 4,440 Total equity and liabilities 19,047 17,775 This summary financial statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 28 February 2006 and signed on its behalf by Jan du Plessis, Chairman.
26 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2005 SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT AND NOTES continued Group statement of changes in total equity for the year ended 31 December 2005 2004 m m Differences on exchange 421 54 Cash ow hedges 58 Net investment hedges 52 Tax on items recognised directly in equity 41 12 Net gains recognised directly in equity 386 42 profit for the year page 24 1,898 2,957 Total recognised income for the year 2,284 2,999 shareholders equity 2,128 2,879 minority interests 156 120 Employee share options 72 68 Dividends and other appropriations to British American Tobacco shareholders 910 864 to minority interests 112 145 Purchase of own shares held in Employee Share Ownership Trusts 48 76 share buy-back programme 501 492 Other movements 17 8 802 1,498 Balance 1 January page 25 6,117 4,619 Change in accounting policy page 21 42 Balance 31 December 6,877 6,117 Total equity comprised 6,630 million of shareholders funds 2004: 5,919 million, after deducting cost of own shares held in Employee Share Ownership Trusts of 182 million 2004: 190 million, and minority interests of 247 million 2004: 198 million.
Summary financial statement and notes Report of the auditors The auditors report on the full annual accounts of The summary financial statement on pages 24 to 29 is the Group for the year ended 31 December 2005 a summary of information in the Directors Report and is unqualied and does not contain any statement Accounts and should be read with the reviews on pages concerning accounting records or failure to obtain 2 to 23.
Reference should also be made to the summary necessary information and explanations.
remuneration report on pages 32 to 36.
Going concern The Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement After reviewing the Groups annual budget and plans, the does not contain sufficient information to allow for as Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources full an understanding of the results of the Group and to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable the state of affairs of the Company, or of the Group, and future and that it is therefore appropriate to continue to their policies and arrangements concerning Directors adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
remuneration, as would be provided by the full annual Directors Report and Accounts.
Shareholders requiring Accounting policies more detailed information have the right to obtain, free From 1 January 2005, the Group is required to prepare of charge, a copy of the full annual Directors Report its financial statements in accordance with International and Accounts for 2005, or for future years, by contacting Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the British American Tobacco Publications as set out on the European Union and implemented in the UK.
Prior to inside back cover.
that date the results were prepared under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
As the 2005 Financial Annual Review 2005 British American Tobacco 27 Statements include comparatives for 2004, the Groups Pursuant to the terms of the RJRT indemnification, RJRT date of transition to IFRS is 1 January 2004 and the 2004 is liable for any possible judgements, the posting of appeal comparatives are restated to IFRS.
However, in preparing bonds or security, and all other expenses of and responsibility the comparative gures for 2004, the Group has chosen for managing the defence of the tobacco litigation.
RJRT has to utilise the IFRS1 exemption from the requirement to assumed control of the defence of the tobacco litigation restate comparative information for IAS32 and IAS39 on involving B&W.
Afliates of B&W have retained control of financial instruments.
the defence in certain tobacco litigation cases with respect to which such afliates are entitled to indemnification.
Contingent liabilities There are contingent liabilities in respect of litigation, US litigation overseas taxes and guarantees in various countries.
Medical reimbursement cases These civil actions seek to recover amounts spent by Product liability litigation government entities and other third party providers Group companies, notably Brown & Williamson Holdings, on healthcare and welfare costs claimed to result from Inc. formerly Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation illnesses associated with smoking.
As at 31 December 2005, B&W, as well as other leading cigarette manufacturers, a reimbursement suit was pending against B&W and other are defendants, principally in the US, in a number of product Group companies by an Indian tribe.
The vast majority of liability cases.
In a number of these cases, the amounts of other such claims have been dismissed on legal grounds.
compensatory and punitive damages sought are significant.
Class actions Indemnity As at 31 December 2005, B&W was named as a defendant On 30 July 2004, B&W completed transactions combining in some 15 separate actions attempting to assert claims on its US tobacco business assets, liabilities and operations with behalf of classes of persons allegedly injured by smoking.
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company.
A new company called In the Engle case Florida, one jury awarded compensatory R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company RJRT was created as a damages totalling US$12.7 million and assessed result of the combination transactions.
These transactions US$17.6 billion in punitive damages against B&W.
The the Business Combination were accomplished through intermediate appellate court reversed the trial courts a publicly traded holding company Reynolds American Inc. judgement.
A decision following review by the Florida RAI, which is the indirect parent corporation of RJRT.
The Supreme Court is now awaited.
In Scott, the jury returned Group, through B&W, owns approximately 42 per cent of a verdict of US$591 million.
The defendants appealed the outstanding common stock of RAI.
As a result of the this verdict.
Oral argument has not yet been scheduled.
Business Combination: a B&W discontinued the active In a class action complaint Schwab, the judge issued conduct of any tobacco business in the US: b B&W an order in favour of the plaintiffs allowing them to contributed to RJRT all of its assets other than the capital prove the defendants liability on an aggregate basis.
stock of certain subsidiaries engaged in non-US businesses The defendants are seeking an immediate appeal of this and other limited categories of assets: c RJRT assumed all matter.
If allowed, this will considerably delay any trial.
liabilities of B&W except liabilities to the extent relating to businesses and assets not contributed by B&W to RJRT 3.
Individual cases and other limited categories of liabilities and contributed Approximately 3,767 cases were pending against B&W subsidiaries or otherwise to the extent related to B&Ws at 31 December 2005, led by or on behalf of individuals tobacco business as conducted in the US on or prior to in which it is contended that diseases or deaths have 30 July 2004: and d RJRT agreed to indemnify B&W and been caused by cigarette smoking or by exposure to each of its afliates other than RAI and its subsidiaries environmental tobacco smoke ETS.
against, among other matters, all losses, liabilities, damages, 4.
Conduct-based claims expenses, judgements, attorneys fees, etc, to the extent On 22 September 1999, the US Department of Justice relating to or arising from such assumed liabilities or brought an action in the US District Court for the District the assets contributed by B&W to RJRT the RJRT of Columbia against various industry members, including indemnification.
The scope of the RJRT indemnification R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company and B&W.
British includes all expenses and contingent liabilities in connection American Tobacco Investments Limited formerly called with litigation to the extent relating to or arising from British-American Tobacco Company Limited is also now B&Ws US tobacco business as conducted on or prior a co-defendant in the action.
The trial of this claim began to 30 July 2004, including smoking and health tobacco on 21 September 2004 and was completed in June 2005. litigation, whether the litigation is commenced before After an appeal by the defendants, the Court of Appeals or after 30 July 2004 the tobacco litigation.
28 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2005 SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT AND NOTES continued ruled on 4 February 2005 that the Government could appeal against the certication on 23 June 2005.
An appeal not claim disgorgement of profits.
On 17 October 2005, is being pursued.
the US Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal by the In Quebec, in February 2005, two smoking and health US Government in respect of the claim for disgorgement class actions were certied.
There is no right of appeal of US$280 billion of past profits from the US tobacco against class certication.
Judgement is awaited in the case and is not expected before Spring 2006.
Imperial is currently being investigated by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police relating to its business records 5.
Other claims and sales of products exported from Canada between As at 31 December 2005, one case was pending on behalf 1989 and 1994.
No action has been commenced against of asbestos companies, seeking reimbursement for costs Imperial and Imperial believes that it has conducted itself and judgements paid in litigation brought by third parties appropriately at all times.
Based on different theories of claim there are two non-government medical reimbursement cases.
The Flintkote Company Flintkote, a US company As at 31 December 2005, B&W was named as defendant that was engaged in the production and distribution in two US cases brought by foreign government entities of asbestos and asbestos-containing products, was one seeking reimbursement of medical costs which they of many subsidiaries of Genstar Corporation at the time incurred for treatment for persons in their own countries that Imasco Limited now Imperial acquired Genstar who are alleged to have smoked imported cigarettes, Corporation in 1986.
Flintkote became a Group subsidiary including those manufactured by B&W.
following the restructuring of Imasco in 2000.
In 2003, the shares of Flintkote were divested to a trust.
Flintkote Other foreign litigation had been named, along with a large number of defendants, At year end, active claims against Group companies in numerous actions by individuals who seek damages existed in 19 other countries but the only countries based upon alleged exposure to asbestos products, or with more than five active claims were Argentina, Brazil, alleged damage to their buildings due to the presence Canada, Italy, the Netherlands and the Republic of Ireland.
in the buildings of certain materials containing asbestos, As at 31 December 2005, there were some 1,097 pending allegedly manufactured and or sold by such defendants.
1,077 relate to light cigarettes Certain of these claims and suits allege significant damage.
in cases before the Justice of the Peace Courts and the Flintkote led for protection under Chapter 11 of the US most an individual plaintiff can recover is 1,033.
There Bankruptcy Code in May of 2004.
In December of 2005, are around 20 smoking and health cases led by or on Flintkote led a status report in the bankruptcy proceedings behalf of individuals.
There are pending healthcare cost alleging that Flintkotes estate has substantial claims against recoupment cases in France, Spain and Israel.
All of these various parties that participated in certain transactions that cases are at the appellate stage of the process.
In Israel, allegedly left Flintkote with insufficient assets to satisfy the industry is seeking an appeal at the Israeli Supreme foreseeable asbestos-related liabilities, including two Court to reverse the decision at first instance that permits dividends totalling US$525.2 million received ultimately Clalit, a healthcare fund, to pursue their healthcare costs by Imasco in 1986 and 1987, which dividends were paid recoupment claim seeking approximately US$1.6 billion by Flintkote from the proceeds generated through the sale in damages and injunctive relief.
As of 1984, Flintkote had ceased The Supreme Court of Canada has upheld the all production and distribution of asbestos-containing constitutionality of the British Columbian Tobacco Damages materials.
In connection with the 1986 and 1987 dividends, and Health Care Costs Recovery Act.
Whilst the case will Imasco entered into certain contractual undertakings and now proceed against the Canadian defendants, including indemnities with Flintkote and its directors.
Flintkote stated Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited Imperial, the claims in the December 2005 status report that it intends to against the non-resident defendants are stayed pending jointly prosecute with the Ofcial Committee of Asbestos the outcome of their challenge to jurisdiction.
Similar Personal Injury Claimants and the Legal Representative for legislation has been enacted in other Canadian provinces.
Future Asbestos Personal Injury Claimants, various causes of action against Imasco and other former direct and indirect In addition, there are six class actions and four individual parent companies of Flintkote.
These include a cause of cases in Canada.
In the Knight Class Action, the Supreme action to recover the US$525.2 million in dividends plus Court of British Columbia certied a class of all consumers interest under the terms of the contractual undertakings and of Imperial manufactured cigarettes in British Columbia, indemnities and, following further evaluation, possibly other not just British Columbia residents.
Imperial led their Annual Review 2005 British American Tobacco 29 causes of action against various parties that participated in amounts which could in some cases equal or exceed in dividend transactions and certain sale transactions the amount of the judgement.
In any event, with regard that left Flintkote with insufficient assets to satisfy its to US litigation, the Group has the benefit of the RJRT asbestos-related liabilities.
At least in the aggregate and despite the quality of defences available to the Group, it is not Conclusion impossible that the results of operations or cash ows of While it is impossible to be certain of the outcome of any the Group, in particular quarterly or annual periods, could particular case or of the amount of any possible adverse be materially affected by this and by the final outcome of verdict, the Company believes that the defences of the any particular litigation.
Having regard to these matters, Group companies to all these various claims are meritorious the Directors i do not consider it appropriate to make both on the law and the facts, and a vigorous defence is any provision in respect of any pending litigation and being made everywhere.
If an adverse judgement were ii do not believe that the ultimate outcome of all this entered against any of the Group companies in any case, litigation will signicantly impair the financial condition an appeal would be made.
Such appeals could require of the Group.
the appellants to post appeal bonds or substitute security INDEPENDENT AUDITORS STATEMENT to the members of British American Tobacco p. l. c. We have examined the summary financial statement, and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, including the summary remuneration report of accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or British American Tobacco p. l. c. for the year ended to any other person to whom this statement is shown or 31 December 2005. into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Basis of opinion Review and Summary Financial Statement in accordance We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you The auditors statement on the summary financial statement our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the statement within the Annual Review and Summary United Kingdom.
Financial Statement with the Annual Report and Accounts, Opinion the Directors report and the Remuneration report and its In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 with the Annual Report and Accounts, the Directors report of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made and the Remuneration report of British American Tobacco thereunder.
We also read the other information contained p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2005 and complies in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement and with the applicable requirements of Section 251 of the consider the implications for our report if we become aware Companies Act 1985, and the regulations made thereunder.
of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared London for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 28 February 2006 30 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Jan du Plessis British South African The Rt.
Kenneth Clarke QC MP Paul Adams British Paul Rayner Australian Chairman British Chief Executive Finance Director Jan du Plessis became Chairman Deputy Chairman and Senior Appointed a Director in March 2001 Joined Rothmans Holdings Limited in on 1 July 2004, having been a Independent Non-Executive Director and Chief Executive in January 2004.
Australia in 1991 as General Manager, Non-Executive Director since his Appointed a Director in 1998.
He joined British American Tobacco Group Finance and Corporate Services.
appointment to the Board following He is Chairman of the Remuneration from Pepsi International in July 1991 He held senior executive positions the merger with Rothmans in June 1999. and Corporate Social Responsibility and held senior appointments as with Rothmans before becoming Chief Prior to taking on the Chairmanship, Committees.
From 1993 until Regional Director, Asia-Pacic and Operating officer of British American he was Group Finance Director May 1997, he was Chancellor of Regional Director, Europe prior to Tobacco Australasia Limited in of Richemont, a position he held the Exchequer.
He is Non-Executive becoming Deputy Managing Director September 1999.
He is Chairman of the Chairman of Savoy Asset Management in June 2001 and Managing Director Director in January 2002.
He has been Nominations Committee.
He has plc, Deputy Chairman of Alliance in January 2002.
52 a Non-Executive Director of Centrica been Chairman of RHM plc since UniChem Plc and a Non-Executive plc since September 2004.
51 June 2005 and a Non-Executive Director of Foreign & Colonial Director of Lloyds TSB Group plc Investment Trust PLC and from October 2005.
52 Independent News & Media UK Limited.
65 Antonio Monteiro fide Castro Brazilian Piet Beyers South African Robert Lerwill British Dr Ana Maria Llopis Spanish Chief Operating officer and Director, Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director America-Pacic Appointed a Director in June 2004.
In Appointed a Director in March 2002 He is an Executive Director of He was appointed Chief Executive 2005 she was appointed Executive and Chief Operating officer in January Richemont and a Non-Executive of Aegis Group plc in February 2005, Deputy Chairman of the J F Llopis 2004.
He was previously President and Director of Distell Group Limited, having been a Non-Executive Director Foundation and a member of the CEO of Souza Cruz SA and Regional VenFin Limited and Remgro Limited since 2000.
He was formerly a Director Good Governance Working Group for Director, Latin America and Caribbean.
where he was previously Marketing of Cable & Wireless plc where he Spanish listed companies.
Previously He is President of the Administrative Strategy Director.
56 served as Finance Director between she was Executive Vice-President at Council of Souza Cruz SA and a 1997 and 2002 and as Chief Executive Indra, the leading Spanish IT rm, member of the board of the Getulio of Cable & Wireless Regional between and Chief Executive of Openbank, Vargas Foundation.
He is a Non-Executive the Santander Group online bank.
Director of Reynolds American Inc. Director of Synergy Healthcare plc and 55 since July 2004.
60 a Director of The Anthony Nolan Trust.
He has been Chairman of the Audit Committee since August 2005.
54 Rupert Pennant-Rea British Anthony Ruys Dutch Sir Nicholas Scheele British US Thys Visser South African Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Formerly Editor of The Economist A Director from 1 March 2006.
He Appointed a Director on 28 February A Director since 2001.
He is CEO and Deputy Governor of the Bank of joined Heineken N. V. in 1993 as a 2005.
He is a former President and of Remgro Limited, having held England.
He is Chairman of Henderson member of its Executive Board, became Chief Operating officer of Ford senior management positions with Group plc, PGI Group plc and Electra Vice Chairman in 1996 and Chairman Motor Company where he held Rembrandt Group since 1980.
He was appointed in 2002, from which position he retired several senior management positions is Chairman of Rainbow Chicken Ltd a Non-Executive Director of B.
Prior to his career at including Chairman of Ford Europe, and is a Non-Executive Director of Industries p. l. c. in 1995, becoming a Heineken, he held various marketing Chairman and CEO of Jaguar Cars Medi-Clinic Corporation Limited, Director of British American Tobacco and general management positions Limited and President of Ford Mexico.
Nampak Limited and Distell Group in 1998.
He retired as Chairman of with Unilever in the Netherlands, He is Chancellor of the University Limited.
51 the Audit Committee in August 2005.
He is currently of Warwick.
He is also Chairman of 58 a member of the Supervisory Boards The Cambridge-MIT Institute and is of ABN AMRO Bank, Gtech Holdings a Director of Pegasus Holdings Group Corporation USA and Sara Lee USA and Grupo Proeza Mexico.
International B. V. He was appointed an 62 officer in the Order of Orange-Nassau in September 2005.
58 Annual Review 2005 British American Tobacco 31 MANAGEMENT BOARD Flavio fide Andrade Brazilian John Daly Irish Nicandro Durante Italian Rudi Kindts Belgian Director, Latin America and Caribbean Director, Asia-Pacic from March 2006 Director, Human Resources Joined the Management Board as Joined the Management Board as Director, Africa and Middle East Joined British American Tobacco in Regional Director for Latin America Regional Director for Asia-Pacic in Appointed Director, Africa & Middle 1988.
He has held a number of senior and Caribbean in January 2004, October 2004.
Since 1994, he held a East in succession to Jacques Kruger, human resources roles across the following a long career in Brazil with number of senior management roles he will join the Management Board Group including Europe, Africa, the Souza Cruz SA, assuming a variety of for Rothmans International in Europe with effect from 1 March 2006.
He Middle East and Central and South senior management roles including and the Far East before becoming Area previously held senior financial and Asia.
He has been Director, Human President of Souza Cruz before being Director for the Middle East and North general management roles in Brazil Resources since July 2004.
48 appointed to his current position.
49 including President of Souza Cruz He also worked in Chile as General and also in the UK and Hong Kong.
57 Jacques Kruger South African Michael Prideaux British Jimmi Rembiszewski German Ben Stevens British Director, Africa and Middle East Director, Corporate and Director, Marketing Director, Europe until 31 March 2006 Regulatory Affairs Joined the Group as a Marketing Appointed Director, Europe in Joined the Management Board Appointed Director, Corporate and Director and as a Territorial Director January 2004 having previously as Regional Director for Africa and Regulatory Affairs in 1998 following in 1991, having held various senior joined the Management Board in the Middle East in August 2002.
He marketing and business appointments 2001 as Development Director.
Since was previously Managing Director of had previously joined B.
A. T Industries in Procter & Gamble and Jacobs joining British American Tobacco British American Tobacco South Africa in 1989 from Charles Barker, a leading Suchard.
He has been a member of the in 1990, he has covered a number Limited.
He will retire from British financial and corporate public relations, Management Board since 1996.
55 of senior marketing, finance and American Tobacco on 31 March 2006. advertising and design agency, where management roles particularly in 55 he was Chief Executive.
46 The role of the Management Board The Management Board, chaired by the Chief Executive, comprises the Executive Directors of British American Tobacco p. l. c. together with the executives shown on this page.
The Management Board has delegated responsibility Peter Taylor British Neil Withington British for overseeing the implementation by the Groups Director, Operations and IT Director, Legal and General Counsel operating subsidiaries of the policies and strategy set by Joined British American Tobacco Appointed Legal Director and General in 1980 and worked in a variety of Counsel of British American Tobacco the Board of Directors, and for creating the conditions for operational and general management in 2000, having previously been the their successful day-to-day operation.
He was Groups Deputy General Counsel.
appointed Global Operations Director He joined the Group in 1993 after a in 2003.
53 career at the Bar and in the chemical and pharmaceutical industries with ICI.
He has been a Director of Reynolds American Inc. since July 2004.
49 Board Committees Committee membership is indicated by the following symbols: Nominations Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 32 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Corporate governance to manage risk that may impede the achievement of the Companys business objectives rather than to eliminate British American Tobacco is committed to maintaining these risks.
The internal control system can therefore only high standards of corporate governance.
Our corporate provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material governance framework is directed towards achieving our misstatement or loss.
business objectives in a manner which is responsible and in accordance with high standards of honesty, transparency The Audit Committee is chaired by Robert Lerwill.
These principles are reected in our is to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of Standards of Business Conduct, which have been in place the Company and review and, where appropriate, make for many years and are kept under continual review in representations to the Board on business risks, internal order to ensure that they remain at the forefront of best controls and compliance.
Every Group company and every employee The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee is chaired worldwide is expected to live up to them.
In addition, the by Kenneth Clarke and its role is to help identify and assess, principles set out within our Statement of Business Principles with management, those significant social, environmental are designed to help meet the expectations placed on us and reputational risks that might impair the Companys by our various stakeholders.
Both documents are available strategic objective to be recognised as a responsible from the Company Secretary and through our website, company in a controversial industry.
evaluates the adequacy of the Companys policies on these The principal governance rules applying to UK companies issues and makes recommendations for change.
listed on the London Stock Exchange are contained in the The Nominations Committee is chaired by Jan du Plessis.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance adopted by Its role is to make recommendations to the Board on the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Code.
suitable candidates for appointment to the Board and The Company has either complied with the Provisions of Management Board, ensuring that both boards have an the Code throughout the year or else a full explanation has appropriate balance of expertise and ability.
In addition, been provided in the Corporate Governance Statement on it is responsible for reviewing the succession plans for the pages 17 to 23 of the Report and Accounts where it has Executive Directors and members of the Management Board.
The Board therefore considers that the Company has satisfied its obligations under the Code.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Kenneth Clarke and the summary remuneration report below sets out its The Board and its Committees role, responsibilities and policies during 2005.
The Board is responsible to the Companys shareholders for the success of the Group and for its overall strategic Summary Remuneration Report direction, its values and its governance.
Among the key This report is extracted from the full Remuneration Report matters on which the Board alone may make decisions are set out in the Directors Report and Accounts 2005 a copy the Groups business strategy, its annual budget, dividends of which is available on request and can be found on our and major corporate activities.
It is also responsible for website, bat.
reviewing the Companys internal controls and governance The role of the Remuneration Committee and Executive system and for approving the Standards of Business Conduct.
remuneration policy It held seven scheduled meetings in 2005.
Responsibility The Remuneration Committee determines the for implementing the Groups strategy and for creating framework and policy on the terms of engagement the conditions for the Groups successful day-to-day including remuneration for the Chairman, the Executive operation is delegated to the Management Board, which Directors and the members of the Management Board.
The Remuneration Committee also decides their specic The Board is responsible for the overall system of internal remuneration, including awards under the share incentive control for the Company and its subsidiaries and for schemes and pension schemes.
reviewing the effectiveness of the system.
It carries out The remuneration strategy for the British American Tobacco such a review at least annually, covering all material Group is to pay competitively, and, through the use of an controls including financial, operational and compliance integrated pay and benets structure, to reward corporate controls and risk management systems, and reports to and individual performance and so contribute to the shareholders that it has done so.
The system is designed Annual Review 2005 British American Tobacco 33 Table 1.
Executive Directors remuneration policy summary Remuneration key components Rationale Delivery Policy summary Base salary competitively reward cash annual review with changes effective from April corporate and individual monthly benchmarked against a mid-market level of main board performance directors from a UK comparator group with a mainly reect skills and experience international consumer goods focus chosen from the FTSE 100 Index additional reference to published salary data with reference to companies in the UK comparator group Benets in kind car or car allowance UK management level benefit private medical and personal Executive Directors receive the benefit of the use accident insurance of a chauffeur Performance-related incentivise the attainment 50% cash Executive Incentive cash bonus targets in four areas: operating profit, cash bonus of corporate targets on an Bonus Scheme EIS ow, market share and corporate activity annual basis 50% shares Deferred Share shares bonus targets: business sustainability measures Bonus Scheme DSBS such as growth and productivity DSBS shares held in trust for for 2006, five common measures for EIS and DSBS: three years and participants underlying operating profit, market share volume receive cash sum equivalent of key players, Global Drive Brand volume, net to the dividend on the after turnover revenue and cash ow tax position of all unvested for an on target performance, the EIS and DSBS ordinary shares held in together carry a value of 100 per cent of the base the DSBS at the dividend salary with an overall maximum of 150 per cent record date Long term incentives alignment of executive shares maximum annual award of 125 per cent of salary Long Term Incentive remuneration with discretionary annual award 175 per cent for the Chief Executive Plan LTIP the generation of LTIP dividend equivalent cash LTIP dividend equivalent to the dividends that shareholder value as cash at time of vesting participants would have received as shareholders from incentivise growth the proportion of shares the date of the LTIP award to the awards vesting date in earnings per share awarded under an LTIP with inclusion of the LTIP dividend equivalent, the applied and three year total grant which later lapse percentage level of salary applicable to annual awards shareholder return upon the vesting of an is a maximum of 200 per cent for the Chief Executive award do not attract the and 150 per cent for the other Executive Directors LTIP dividend equivalent three year performance period Total Shareholder Return TSR performance 50 per cent of the total award combines both the share price and dividend performance 25 per cent for each measure during the three year performance period as against two comparator groups: 1 the constituents of the FTSE 100 Index: and 2 a peer group of FMCG companies earnings per share measure 50 per cent of the total award relates to earnings per share growth on an adjusted diluted basis relative to ination Pension provision of post-retirement British American Tobacco pension accrues at 1 40 of annual basic salary benets UK Pension Fund: dened normal retirement age of 60 benefit plan maximum pension payable will not exceed 2 3 of benefit paid as on-going base salary averaged over the preceding 12 months pension Paul Adams and Paul Rayner are both members of the UK Pension Fund UK Pension Fund will retain a scheme-specic cap on the introduction of the new UK pension regime in April 2006 excess benets continue to be accrued within an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme UURBS benets for Antonio Monteiro fide Castro are all accrued in the UURBS, offset by his entitlements under the dened benefit plan of Souza Cruz of Brazil 34 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued development of a Winning Organisation.
This strategy Long Term Incentive Plan: vesting of 2003 award underpins the remuneration policy for the Executive As reported last year, 66 per cent of the 2002 LTIP award Directors of British American Tobacco and the members vested on 20 March 2005.
The fifth LTIP award was made of its Management Board.
A balance between the short in 2003, with the performance period being completed and long term elements rewards and strengthens the at 31 December 2005.
The Remuneration Committee alignment of executive remuneration to the generation has assessed the performance of British American Tobacco of shareholder value.
The pay and benets structure against the two performance conditions outlined in Table 1 reects the competitive nature of the Groups worldwide and has determined that 77.1 per cent of the award will operations, recognising the need to attract, motivate vest.
On the TSR measure, the Company ranked ninth and retain high-quality executives.
It is anticipated that out of the FTSE 100 group of companies, giving a vesting this remuneration policy will continue to be applied of 25 per cent for performance at the upper quartile.
Performance-based variable rewards A vesting of 25 per cent was achieved for ranking third cash and share-based performance related annual bonus out of the peer group of international FMCG companies, plans: and LTIP comprise about 53 per cent of total this being upper quartile.
Earnings per share growth was remuneration with the balance of core xed elements 5.14 per cent per annum in excess of ination, resulting covering base salary, pension and other benets.
2 The deferred share bonus payments include cash sums equivalent to the dividend on the after tax position on all unvested ordinary shares comprised in the awards held by participants including Executive Directors in the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme at each dividend record date.
For the year ended 31 December 2005, these payments for Executive Directors were as follows: Paul Adams 29,734 2004: 22,457 : Paul Rayner 19,570 2004: 12,552 : and Antonio Monteiro fide Castro 18,376 2004: 16,451.
3 Benets in kind include: a a car or a car allowance: b use of a chauffeur: c travel and other expenses incurred in connection with accompanied attendance at business functions.
Non-Executive Directors receive benets under c only.
4 Paul Rayners benets in kind included payments in respect of family education 56,344 which followed his relocation to the UK from Australia.
5 Antonio Monteiro fide Castros benets in kind included tax advice of 103,390 in respect of his former contractual arrangements up to 1 January 2004, prior to which date he derived his emoluments in both the UK and Brazil.
6 In 2005, 29,347 was paid to Martin Broughton in respect of the reimbursement to him by the Company of tax paid on business related spouse travel expenses incurred by him in tax years prior to him ceasing to be a Director in 2004.
7 The Directors remuneration shown above does not include the illustrative value as at 23 February 2006 of the Executive Directors Long Term Incentive Plan awards made in March 2003 which will vest on 19 March 2006.
Reference should be made to Table 3 on page 35 note 5.
Annual Review 2005 British American Tobacco 35 Members of the FMCG group for the 2003 award vesting Performance graph in March 2006: Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 requires that the Company provide a graph comparing the TSR Altadis InBev performance of a hypothetical holding of shares in the Altria Group Johnson & Johnson Company with a broad equity market index over a five Anheuser-Busch Kellogg year period the performance graph.
This illustrates the Cadbury Schweppes Kimberly-Clark performance of TSR against the FTSE 100 Index over a Campbell Soup LVMH Mot Hennessy five year period commencing on 1 January 2001.
In the Carlsberg Nestl opinion of the Directors, the FTSE 100 Index is the most Coca-Cola Pepsico appropriate index against which TSR should be measured Colgate-Palmolive Procter & Gamble because it is a widely used and understood index of broadly Danone Reckitt Benckiser similar-sized UK companies to the Company.
In addition Diageo RJ Reynolds up to 30 July 2004 to the performance graph, illustrative graphs show the Gallaher Group SABMiller relative position on the TSR measures for the LTIP award Heineken Sara Lee vesting in March 2006 see page 36.
HJ Heinz Scottish & Newcastle The Hershey Company Unilever Imperial Tobacco Group Table 3.
Summary of share interests including long term incentives Share options Ordinary shares Options and Options and exercisable at 1 Jan 2005 Ordinary shares Ordinary shares awards over awards over from to or date of Ordinary shares Deferred Scheme Deferred Scheme ordinary shares ordinary shares LTIP awards initial appointment at 31 Dec 2005 at 1 Jan 2005 at 31 Dec 2005 at 1 Jan 2005 at 31 Dec 2005 vesting date PN Adams 122,815 143,051 112,411 125,517 Share Option and Sharesave Schemes 71,159 2,492 Jan 10-Jun 10 LTIP 280,062 341,383 Mar 06-May 08 PA Rayner 82,868 83,228 73,725 83,155 Share Option and Sharesave Schemes 10,071 6,777 Sep 02-Sep 09 LTIP 201,116 200,511 Mar 06-May 08 A Monteiro fide Castro 179,390 179,564 69,850 76,784 Sharesave Scheme 957 Jan 09-Jun 09 LTIP 222,846 229,480 Mar 06-May 08 JP du Plessis 50,000 50,000 KH Clarke 4,283 4,459 P E Beyers 1 R E Lerwill 3,000 3,000 A M Llopis 2,200 RL Pennant-Rea 3,165 3,295 1 Sir Nicholas Scheele MHVisser Notes: 1 Reference should be made to Table 2 on page 34 note 1.
2 No Director had a non-beneficial interest in the shares of the Company at the dates stated above.
3 Share options granted under the Share Option Scheme are not normally granted in any year to Executive Directors who receive an award under the LTIP: no options were granted in the year ended 31 December 2005.
The aggregate gains on share options exercised by Executive Directors during the year ended 31 December 2005 were 423,516 2004: 738,113.
Options granted under the Share Option Scheme are exercisable subject to a performance condition based on earnings per share growth: the Companys published adjusted earnings per share growth has to exceed ination by an average of 3 per cent per annum over any consecutive three year period during the 10 year life of the options.
4 The value of LTIP awards which vested to Executive Directors during the year ended 31 December 2005 was 1,300,628 2004: 1,097,452.
5 The March 2003 LTIP award will vest on 19 March 2006 at 77.1 per cent in the manner described on page 34.
For illustrative purposes only, the aggregate value of the vesting awards for the Executive Directors was 2,552,854 based on a share price on 23 February 2006 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of 1,328p per ordinary share.
36 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Performance graph historical TSR performance at its option continue those benets for a 12 month period.
Five year growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding In addition, the Committee also maintains discretion in FTSE 100 comparison based on 30 trading day average values respect of this policy for those Executive Directors who may be recruited externally or from overseas, when it may 350 be appropriate to offer a contract with an initial period of 300 longer than one year, reducing to a one year rolling contract 250 after the expiry of the initial period.
200 Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment and 150 remuneration policy 100 The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts 50 with the Company but instead have letters of appointment.
Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 The terms of appointment provide that a new Director is appointed for a specified term, being an initial period to British American Tobacco FTSE 100 the next Annual General Meeting after appointment and, subject to reappointment at that meeting, for a further Total shareholder return annual % period ending at the Annual General Meeting held three 1 January 2003 31 December 2005 FMCG group years thereafter.
Subsequent reappointment is subject to UPPER QUARTILE MEDIAN 12.2% BAT 32.8% endorsement by the Board and the approval of shareholders.
40 LOWER QUARTILE Fees for Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board with reference to the time commitment and 30 responsibilities associated with the roles.
Under the terms 20 of their letters of appointment, on termination at any time, a Non-Executive Director is entitled to any accrued but 10 unpaid Directors fees but not to any other compensation.
0 Chairmans terms of appointment 10 Jan du Plessiss terms of appointment provide that he holds the ofce of Chairman with effect from 1 July 2004 for a The FMCG comparison is based on three months average values period of three years unless terminated earlier by: 1 the Company giving three months notice or a discretionary Total shareholder return annual % compensation payment in lieu of notice: or 2 by the 1 January 2003 31 December 2005 FTSE 100 Chairman giving one months written notice with the UPPER QUARTILE MEDIAN 15.6% BAT 32.8% Company having discretion to make a compensation 60 LOWER QUARTILE 50 payment in lieu of such notice.
This is limited to any fees 40 which are payable for such part of the relevant notice 30 period as the Board does not require the Chairman to 20 10 perform his duties.
The Chairman is subject to the 0 reappointment of Directors provisions contained in the 10 Companys articles of association and accordingly he 20 retires from the Board and offers himself for reappointment 30 40 at the Annual General Meeting on 27 April 2006.
The date of his last reappointment as a Director was at the Annual The FTSE 100 comparison is based on three months average values General Meeting held on 21 April 2004.
In common with the Non-Executive Directors, he does not participate in the Executive Directors service contracts Companys share schemes, bonus schemes or incentive The Remuneration Committee continues to operate a plans and is not a member of any Group pension plan.
policy of one year rolling contracts for Executive Directors: these contracts incorporate a provision for a termination or compensation payment in lieu of notice.
This will comprise: 1 12 months salary at his then current base pay: and 2 a cash payment in respect of other benets under the contract such as medical insurance, or the Company may CONTACT AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Registered ofce www.
co. uk Globe House, 4 Temple Place, London WC2R 2PG Register for the web-based enquiry and portfolio tel: 44 0 20 7845 1000, facsimile: 44 0 20 7240 0555 management service for shareholders operated by Lloyds TSB Registrars Incorporated in England and Wales No.
3407696 define a portfolio of investments: view details of your Secretary recent dividend payments: access dividend tax vouchers Alan Porter mandated dividends only : and register a preference for receiving notication of British American Tobacco General Counsel Neil Withington shareholder mailings by e-mail Investor relations www.
co. uk dealing Go online or telephone 0870 850 0852 UK to buy or Enquiries should be directed to Ralph Edmondson or Rachael Cummins, tel: 44 0 20 7845 1180 sell British American Tobacco ordinary shares Publications Press ofce Enquiries should be directed to Fran Morrison or Copies of current and past Directors Report and Accounts David Betteridge, tel: 44 0 20 7845 2888, and Annual Reviews are available on request.
Copies of the Group corporate descriptive booklet About Us and e-mail: press ofce@bat.
com past Quarterly Reports are also available Auditors Highlights from these publications can be produced in  LLP, 1 Embankment Place, London WC2N 6RH alternative formats such as Braille, audio tape and large print Final dividend 2005 Contact British American Tobacco Publications, Unit 84, Ex dividend date 8 March 2006 London Industrial Park, Roding Road, London E6 6LS Record date 10 March 2006 tel: 44 0 20 7511 7797, facsimile: 44 0 20 7540 4326 e-mail: bat@team365.
co. uk Payment date 4 May 2006 Annual General Meeting Dividend Reinvestment Plan A straightforward and economic way of utilising your Thursday, 27 April 2006 at 11.30am, The Mermaid Conference & Events Centre, Puddle Dock, Blackfriars, dividends to build up your shareholding in British American London EC4V 3DB Tobacco: contact Lloyds TSB Registrars for details American Depositary Receipts Financial results 2006 First quarter 3 May British American Tobacco sponsors an American Depositary Receipt ADR programme in the United States Interim 27 July Third quarter 26 October Enquiries regarding ADR holder accounts and payment Registrar of dividends should be directed to Shareholder Relations, The Bank of New York, PO Box 11258, Church Street Enquiries concerning your shareholding, mandating your dividends including consolidated dividend tax vouchers Station, New York, NY 10286-1258, USA tel: 1 888 BNY ADRS toll-free or 1 212 815 3700, and notifying changes in your personal details should be directed to Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, e-mail: shareowners@bankofny.
com, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA tel: 0870 600 3983 website: www.
com UK : 44 0 121 415 7059 Individual Savings Accounts ISAs Online A British American Tobacco sponsored ISA www.
com Contact The Share Centre, PO Box 2000, Aylesbury, Bucks Access comprehensive information about British American HP21 8ZB tel: 0800 800 008 UK : 44 0 1296 414 141, Tobacco and download shareholder publications at the e-mail: service@share.
co. uk corporate website Capital gains tax Visit the Investor Centre for valuation and charting tools Fact sheet for British American Tobacco historical capital and share price data to help you track the performance gains tax information of your British American Tobacco ordinary shares Contact the British American Tobacco Company Secretarial Subscribe to the e-mail and SMS alert services for key financial Department, tel: 44 0 20 7845 1000 or access the events in the British American Tobacco financial calendar Investor Centre at www.
Covers and full size text pages printed on Revive Special Silk containing bre from well managed forests independently certied according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council and recovered bre.
The gloss paper used in the Special feature is Revive Gloss.
It uses 75% fide-inked post consumer waste and is totally chlorine free TCF.
