qxd 14 3 06 1:02 pm Page 104 104 British American Tobacco Directors Report and Accounts 2005 BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO p. l. c. Accounting policies Taxation Basis of accounting Taxation provided is that chargeable on the profits of The financial statements have been prepared on the the period, together with deferred taxation.
Deferred going concern basis under the historical cost convention taxation is provided in full on timing differences between and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and the recognition of gains and losses in the financial UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
statements and their recognition in tax computations.
However, the Company does not discount deferred tax From 1 January 2005, the accounting policy in respect assets and liabilities.
of the treatment of dividends proposed, has been amended to reect the adoption of FRS21.
As a result, Fixed asset investments the final dividend of a year is only accounted for in the Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less provisions accounts of the following year.
for any impairment in value.
The change in accounting policy resulted in a decrease Dividends in shareholders funds of 643 million, being the net Final dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders amount of the final dividends received and paid for are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the 2004 now derecognised.
period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders, while interim dividend distributions are The 2005 accounts reect the 2004 final dividend recognised in the period in which the dividends are paid and the 2005 interim dividend paid, amounting declared and paid.
to 910 million in total 2004: 856 million.
Repurchase of share capital Cash ow statement When share capital is repurchased the amount of The cash ows of the Company are included in the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, consolidated cash ow statement of British American is recognised as a deduction from equity.
Repurchased Tobacco p. l. c. which is included in this Directors Report shares which are not cancelled, or shares purchased for the and Accounts.
Consequently, the Company is exempt Employee Share Ownership Trusts, are classied as treasury under the terms of FRS1 Revised from publishing a shares and presented as a deduction from total equity.
Related parties Foreign currencies The Company has taken advantage of the exemption Transactions arising in currencies other than sterling under paragraph 3 b of FRS8 from disclosing transactions are translated at the rate of exchange ruling on the with related parties that are part of the British American date of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities expressed Tobacco p. l. c. Group.
in currencies other than sterling are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the end of the financial year.
All exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account in the year.
Accounting for income Income is included in the profit and loss account when all contractual or other applicable conditions for recognition have been met.
Provisions are made for bad and doubtful debts, including where delays are anticipated in the receipt of monies from overseas.
