HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Notes on the Financial Statements 1 Basis of preparation a For all reporting periods up to and including the year ended 31 December 2004, HSBC prepared its consolidated financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
From 1 January 2005, HSBC has prepared its consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as endorsed by the EU and effective for HSBCs reporting for the year ended 31 December 2005.
IFRSs comprise accounting standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and its predecessor body as well as interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC and its predecessor body.
In preparing these consolidated financial statements, HSBC has elected to take advantage of certain transitional provisions within IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 1 which offer exemption from presenting comparative information or applying IFRSs retrospectively.
The most significant of these provisions is the exemption from presenting comparative information in accordance with IFRSs in the following areas: IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation IAS 32 : IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IAS 39 : and IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts IFRS 4.
In addition, HSBC has elected not to present comparative information for disclosures required under IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure IFRS 7 as permitted for entities applying the standard for annual periods beginning before 1 January 2006.
The notes affected by the transition provisions within IFRS 1 that do not contain comparative information are: net income from financial instruments designated at fair value: net earned insurance premiums: net insurance claims incurred and movement in policyholders liabilities: net operating income: analysis of financial assets and liabilities by measurement basis: financial assets designated at fair value: hedging instruments within the derivatives note: securitisation and other structured transactions: financial liabilities designated at fair value and liabilities under insurance contracts issued.
Where comparative information for financial instruments and insurance contracts has been prepared on the basis of HSBCs previous accounting policies, the accounting policies applied to 2004 are disclosed separately in Note 46g.
In addition to the Notes on the Financial Statements, disclosures under IFRS 7 relating to the nature and extent of risks may be found under Risk Management in the audited information of the Financial Review on pages 115 to 172.
Unless stated otherwise, this information is unaudited.
HSBC has adopted the Amendment to IAS 39: The Fair Value Option Note 2h, the Amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits: Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group Plans and Disclosures Note 2s, the Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures, IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease Note 2q and IFRS 7 with effect from 1 January 2005, ahead of their effective dates.
IFRSs as endorsed by the EU are identical in all respects to the current IFRSs except for the EUs amendment to IAS 39, under which certain conditions required for the application of hedge accounting were deleted.
HSBC has not taken advantage of the EU amendment to IAS 39, and applies the more restrictive requirements of IAS 39.
The balance sheets and income statements in this document are presented in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
On publishing the parent company financial statements here together with Group financial statements HSBC Holdings is taking advantage of the exception in s230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these financial statements.
HSBC has taken advantage of the exemption under Regulation 7 of the Partnerships and Unlimited Companies Accounts Regulations 1993 from certain partnerships that are consolidated by HSBC presenting their own individual financial statements under IFRSs.
b The consolidated financial statements of HSBC comprise the financial statements of HSBC Holdings and its subsidiaries made up to 31 December, with the exception of the banking and insurance subsidiaries of HSBC 243
