HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Taxation of Shares and Dividends and third interim dividends for 2005 was set out in Taxation the Secretarys letters to shareholders of 31 March, The following is a summary, under current law, of 1 June, 31 August and 6 December 2005.
In each the principal UK tax considerations that are likely to case, the market value of the scrip dividend was not be material to the ownership and disposition of substantially different from the dividend forgone shares.
The summary does not purport to be a and, accordingly, the price of HSBC Holdings comprehensive description of all the tax US$0.50 ordinary shares the shares for UK tax considerations that may be relevant to a holder of purposes for the dividends was the cash dividend shares.
In particular, the summary deals principally foregone.
with shareholders who are resident in the United Kingdom for UK tax purposes and only with holders Taxation of capital gains who hold the shares as investments and who are the The computation of the capital gains tax liability beneficial owners of the shares, and does not address arising on disposals of shares in HSBC Holdings by the tax treatment of certain classes of holders such as shareholders subject to UK capital gains tax can be dealers in securities.
Holders and prospective complex, partly depending on whether, for example, purchasers should consult their own advisers the shares were purchased since April 1991, acquired regarding the tax consequences of an investment in in 1991 in exchange for shares in The Hongkong and shares in light of their particular circumstances, Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, or acquired including the effect of any national, state or local subsequent to 1991 in exchange for shares in other laws.
Taxation of dividends For capital gains tax purposes, the acquisition cost for ordinary shares is adjusted to take account of Currently no tax is withheld from dividends paid by subsequent rights and capitalisation issues.
However, dividends are paid with adjustments apply where an individual shareholder an associated tax credit which is available for set-off has chosen to receive shares instead of cash by certain shareholders against any liability they dividends, subject to scrip issues made since 6 April may have to UK income tax.
Currently, the 1998 being treated for tax as separate holdings.
Any associated tax credit is equivalent to 10 per cent of capital gain arising on a disposal may also be the combined cash dividend and tax credit, i. e. adjusted to take account of indexation allowance one-ninth of the cash dividend.
and, in the case of individuals, taper relief.
Except For individual shareholders who are resident in for gains made by a company chargeable to UK the United Kingdom for taxation purposes and liable corporation tax, any such indexation allowance is to UK income tax at the basic rate, no further UK calculated up to 5 April 1998 only.
income tax liability arises on the receipt of a If in doubt, shareholders are recommended to dividend from HSBC Holdings.
Individual consult their professional advisers.
shareholders who are liable to UK income tax at the higher rate on UK dividend income currently Shares or ADSs held by an individual whose 32.5 per cent are taxed on the combined amount of domicile is determined to be the United States for the dividend and the tax credit.
The tax credit is the purposes of the United States-United Kingdom available for set-off against the higher rate liability, Double Taxation Convention relating to estate and leaving net higher rate tax to pay equal to 25 per cent gift taxes the Estate Tax Treaty and who is not of the cash dividend.
Individual UK resident for such purposes a national of the United Kingdom shareholders are not entitled to any tax credit will not, provided any US Federal estate or gift tax repayment.
chargeable has been paid, be subject to UK inheritance tax on the individuals death or on a Although non-UK-resident shareholders are lifetime transfer of shares or ADSs except in certain generally not entitled to any repayment of the tax cases where the shares or ADSs i are comprised in credit in respect of any UK dividend received, some a settlement unless, at the time of the settlement, the such shareholders may be so entitled under the settlor was domiciled in the United States and was provisions of a double taxation agreement between not a national of the United Kingdom, ii is part of their country of residence and the United Kingdom.
the business property of a UK permanent However, in most cases no amount of the tax credit establishment of an enterprise, or iii pertains to a is, in practice, repayable.
UK fixed base of an individual used for the Information on the taxation consequences of the performance of independent personal services.
In HSBC Holdings scrip dividends offered in lieu of the such cases, the Estate Tax Treaty generally provides 2004 fourth interim dividend and the first, second 403 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Taxation of Shares and Dividends continued a credit against US Federal tax liability for the positions, and persons that own, directly or amount of any tax paid in the United Kingdom in a indirectly, 10 per cent or more of the voting stock of case where the shares or ADSs are subject to both HSBC Holdings.
This discussion is based on laws, UK inheritance tax and to US Federal estate or gift treaties, judicial decisions and regulatory tax.
interpretations in effect on the date hereof, all of which are subject to change.
A new income tax Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax treaty the new Treaty between the United Kingdom and the United States entered into effect on Transfers of shares by a written instrument of 1 May 2003 with respect to withholding taxes on transfer generally will be subject to UK stamp duty dividends superseding the previous tax treaty the at the rate of 0.5 per cent of the consideration paid old Treaty.
Following entry into effect of the new for the transfer, and such stamp duty is generally Treaty, eligible US holders are no longer entitled to payable by the transferee.
claim a special foreign tax credit in respect of An agreement to transfer shares, or any interest dividends that was available under the terms of the therein, normally will give rise to a charge to stamp old Treaty, except for a limited period of time during duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5 per cent of the which such holders may have elected to apply the consideration.
However, provided an instrument of old Treaty in its entirety in preference to the new transfer of the shares is executed pursuant to the Treaty.
agreement and duly stamped before the date on Holders and prospective purchasers should which the stamp duty reserve tax becomes payable, consult their own advisers regarding the tax under current UK Inland Revenue practice it will not consequences of an investment in shares or ADSs in be necessary to pay the stamp duty reserve tax, nor light of their particular circumstances, including the to apply for such tax to be cancelled.
Stamp duty effect of any national, state or local laws.
reserve tax is generally payable by the transferee.
In general, the beneficial owner of a share or Paperless transfers of shares within CREST, the ADS will be entitled to benefits under the new United Kingdoms paperless share transfer system, Treaty and, therefore, will be an eligible US holder are liable to stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5 if it is i an individual resident of the United States, per cent of the consideration.
In CREST a US corporation meeting ownership criteria transactions, the tax is calculated and payment made specified in the new Treaty or other entity meeting automatically.
Deposits of shares into CREST criteria specified in the new Treaty: and ii not also generally will not be subject to stamp duty reserve resident in the United Kingdom for UK tax purposes.
tax, unless the transfer into CREST is itself for Special rules, including a limitation of benefits consideration.
The Treaty benefits discussed below generally are not available to US holders that Taxation US residents hold shares or ADSs in connection with the conduct of a business through a permanent establishment, or The following is a summary, under current law, of the performance of personal services through a fixed the principal UK tax and US Federal tax base, in the United Kingdom.
considerations that are likely to be material to the ownership and disposition of shares or ADSs by a Taxation of dividends holder that is a resident of the United States for the purposes of the income tax convention between the An eligible US holder must include cash dividends United States and the United Kingdom the paid on the shares or ADSs in ordinary income on Treaty, and is fully eligible for benefits under the the date that such holder or the ADS depositary Treaty an eligible US holder.
The summary does receives them, translating dividends paid in UK not purport to be a comprehensive description of all pounds sterling into US dollars using the exchange of the tax considerations that may be relevant to a rate in effect on the date of receipt.
Subject to certain holder of shares or ADSs.
In particular, the summary exceptions for positions that are hedged or held for deals only with eligible US holders that hold shares less than 61 days, and subject to a foreign or ADSs as capital assets, and does not address the corporation being considered a qualified foreign tax treatment of holders that are subject to special corporation which includes not being classified for tax rules, such as banks, tax-exempt entities, US federal income tax purposes as specified types of insurance companies, dealers in securities or foreign investment companies, certain dividends currencies, persons that hold shares or ADSs as part qualified dividends received by an individual of an integrated investment including a straddle eligible US holder before 2009 generally will be comprised of a share or ADS and one or more other subject to US taxation at a maximum rate of 15 per 404 cent.
Based on the companys audited financial The amount of stamp duty reserve tax payable on statements and relevant market and shareholder data, such a transfer will be reduced by any stamp duty HSBC Holdings believes that it was not treated as a paid in connection with the same transfer.
passive foreign investment company, foreign No stamp duty will be payable on the transfer personal holding company, or foreign investment of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS, provided that company for US federal income tax purposes with the ADR and any separate instrument of transfer or respect to its 2004 or 2005 taxable year.
In addition, written agreement to transfer remain at all times based on the companys audited financial statements outside the United Kingdom, and provided further and current expectations regarding the value and that any such transfer or written agreement to nature of its assets, and the sources and nature of its transfer is not executed in the United Kingdom.
No income, HSBC Holdings does not anticipate being stamp duty reserve tax will be payable on a transfer classified as a passive foreign investment company of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS effected by the for its 2006 taxable year.
Accordingly, dividends transfer of an ADR.
paid on the shares or ADSs generally should be treated as qualified dividends.
On a transfer of shares from the Depository to a registered holder of an ADS upon cancellation of the Taxation of capital gains ADS, a fixed stamp duty of 5 per instrument of transfer will be payable by the registered holder of Gains realised by an eligible US holder on the sale or the ADR cancelled.
other disposition of shares or ADSs normally will not be subject to UK taxation unless at the time of US backup withholding tax and information the sale or other disposition the holder carries on a reporting trade, profession or vocation in the United Kingdom through a branch or agency or permanent Distributions made on shares and proceeds from the establishment and the shares or ADSs are or have sale of shares or ADSs that are paid within the been used, held or acquired for the purposes of such United States, or through certain financial trade, profession, vocation, branch or agency or intermediaries to US holders, are subject to permanent establishment.
Such gains will be information reporting and may be subject to a US included in income for US tax purposes, and will be backup withholding tax unless, in general, the US long-term capital gains if the shares or ADSs were holder complies with certain certification procedures held for more than one year.
A long-term capital or is a corporation or other person exempt from such gain realised by an individual holder generally is withholding.
Holders that are not US persons subject to US tax at a maximum rate of 5 or 15 per generally are not subject to information reporting or cent.
backup withholding tax, but may be required to comply with applicable certification procedures to Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax establish that they are not US persons in order to ADSs avoid the application of such information reporting requirements or backup withholding tax to payments If shares are transferred into a clearance service or received within the United States or through certain depository receipt arrangement which will include a financial intermediaries.
transfer of shares to the Depository UK stamp duty and or stamp duty reserve tax will be payable.
The stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax is generally payable on the consideration for the transfer and is payable at the aggregate rate of 1.5 per cent.
