47 Differences between IFRSs and US GAAP The consolidated financial statements of HSBC are prepared in accordance with IFRSs which differ in certain significant respects from US GAAP.
The following is a summary of the significant differences applicable to HSBC.
Shareholders interest in the long-term assurance fund IFRSs IFRS 4 permits entities to continue to account for insurance contracts under guidance issued under previous GAAP until a comprehensive standard relating to the measurement of insurance assets and liabilities is developed.
Under UK GAAP and, hence, current IFRSs, the value placed on HSBCs interest in long-term assurance business includes a valuation of the discounted future earnings expected to emerge from business currently in force, using appropriate assumptions in assessing factors such as recent experience and general economic conditions, together with the surplus retained in the long-term assurance funds.
The assumptions are determined annually in consultation with independent actuaries.
Movements in the value of in-force long-term assurance business are included in Other operating income on a gross of tax basis.
US GAAP The net present value of future earnings is not recognised.
Acquisition costs and fees are deferred and amortised in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard SFAS 97 Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long-duration Contracts and for Realised Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments.
Impact Under US GAAP, shareholders' equity is lower than under IFRSs because the present value of in-force long-term assurance business is not recognised.
This effect is partly offset by the treatment of acquisition costs, which are deferred and amortised under US GAAP but are written off immediately as an expense of long-term assurance business under IFRSs.
Long-term assurance assets and liabilities IFRSs Long-term assurance fund assets, excluding own shares held, are classified according to the nature of the asset, for example, financial investments, unless designated at fair value.
The accounting for these assets is consistent with other holdings of similar assets.
Liabilities attributable to policyholders under insurance contracts are recognised in accordance with IFRS 4 and appropriate actuarial principles as Liabilities under insurance contracts issued.
Liabilities attributable to policyholders under linked investment contracts are recognised at fair value as financial liabilities under Financial liabilities designated at fair value.
Prior to 1 January 2005, both types of contract were recognised as Liabilities to policyholders under long-term assurance business.
US GAAP Under the Statement of Position issued by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants AICPA 03-1 SOP 03-1, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Non-traditional and Longduration Contracts and for Separate Accounts, which became fully effective in 2004, when long-term assurance assets qualify for separate accounting they are measured at fair value and be reported in the financial statements as a summary total, with an equivalent summary total for related liabilities.
Otherwise, assets that do not qualify for separate accounting and that represent policyholders funds are accounted for and recognised as general account assets, that is consistent with other holdings of similar assets.
Any related liability is accounted for as a general account liability.
375 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Notes on the Financial Statements continued Impact Long-term assurance assets that are recorded in accounts meeting the definition of separate accounts in SOP 03-1 are measured at fair value through net income and disclosed in a single line, Other assets, in the US GAAP balance sheet.
Pension costs IFRSs IAS 19 Employee Benefits IAS 19 requires pension liabilities to be assessed on the basis of current actuarial valuations performed on each plan, and pension assets to be measured at fair value.
The net pension surplus or deficit, representing the difference between plan assets and liabilities, is recognised on the balance sheet.
In accordance with IAS 19 revised 2004, HSBC has elected to record all actuarial gains and losses on the pension surplus or deficit in the year in which they occur within the Statement of recognised income and expense.
US GAAP SFAS 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions, prescribes a similar method of actuarial valuation for pension liabilities and requires the measurement of plan assets at fair value.
When the value of benefits accrued based on employee service up to the balance sheet date the accumulated benefit obligation exceeds the value of plan assets, HSBC recognises an additional minimum pension liability to the extent that the excess is greater than any accrual already established for unfunded pension costs.
SFAS 87 does not permit recognition of all actuarial gains and losses in a statement other than the primary income statement.
As permitted by US GAAP, HSBC uses the 'corridor method', whereby actuarial gains and losses outside a certain range are recognised in the income statement in equal amounts over the remaining service lives of current employees.
That range is 10 per cent of the greater of plan assets and plan liabilities.
The remaining additional minimum pension liability is recognised directly in Other comprehensive income.
Impact Net income under US GAAP is lower than under IFRSs as a result of the amortisation of the amount by which actuarial losses exceed gains beyond the 10 per cent 'corridor'.
Shareholders' equity under US GAAP is higher than under IFRSs because deficits recognised under IFRSs to the extent they exceed surpluses are greater than the minimum pension liability recognised under US GAAP.
Stock-based compensation IFRSs IFRS 2, Share-based Payment, requires that when annual bonuses are paid in restricted shares and the employee must remain with the employer for a fixed period in order to receive the shares, the award is expensed over that period.
US GAAP For awards made before 1 July 2005, SFAS 123, Accounting for Stock-based Compensation, SFAS 123 requires that compensation cost be recognised over the period s in which the related employee services are rendered.
HSBC has interpreted this service period as the period to which the bonus relates.
For 2005 bonuses awarded in early 2006, HSBC will follow SFAS 123 revised 2004 Share-based Payment SFAS 123R.
SFAS 123R is consistent with IFRS 2 in requiring that restricted bonuses are expensed over the period the employee must remain with HSBC.
However, SFAS 123R only applies to awards made after the date of adoption, which for HSBC is 1 July 2005.
Impact Some of the bonuses awarded in respect of 2002, 2003 and 2004 were recognised over the relevant vesting period and were, therefore, expensed in Net income under IFRSs during 2005.
Under US GAAP, these awards 376 were expensed in the years for which they were granted.
2005 bonuses will be expensed over the vesting period under both IFRSs and US GAAP.
Net income was, therefore, higher under US GAAP in 2005.
IFRSs and US GAAP are now largely aligned and this transition difference will be eliminated over the next few years.
Goodwill, purchase accounting and intangible assets IFRSs Prior to 1998, goodwill under UK GAAP was written off against equity.
HSBC did not elect to reinstate this goodwill on its balance sheet upon transition to IFRSs.
From 1 January 1998 to 31 December 2003, goodwill was capitalised and amortised over its useful life.
The carrying amount of goodwill existing at 31 December 2003 under UK GAAP was carried forward under the transition rules of IFRS 1 from 1 January 2004, subject to certain adjustments.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations requires that goodwill should not be amortised but should be tested for impairment at least annually at the reporting unit level by applying a test based on recoverable amounts.
Quoted securities issued as part of the purchase consideration are valued for the purpose of determining the cost of the acquisition at their market price on the date the transaction is completed.
US GAAP Up to 30 June 2001, goodwill acquired was capitalised and amortised over its useful life, which could not exceed 25 years.
The amortisation of previously acquired goodwill ceased with effect from 31 December 2001.
Quoted securities issued as part of the purchase consideration are fair valued for the purpose of determining the cost of acquisition at their average market price over a reasonable period before and after the date on which the terms of the acquisition are agreed and announced.
Impact Total goodwill and shareholders equity are both higher under US GAAP than under IFRSs because, under US GAAP, i pre-1998 goodwill is included on the balance sheet and ii the amortisation of goodwill ceased on 31 December 2001 compared with 31 December 2003 under IFRSs.
However, goodwill on the acquisition of HSBC Finance in March 2003 is lower under US GAAP than under IFRSs.
This is principally the result of differences in the accounting for securitisations and intangibles.
Under IFRSs, previously recognised gains on the sale of assets to securitisation vehicles are eliminated and the securitised assets are recognised on balance sheet.
However, because HSBC elected not to restate business combinations prior to 1 January 2004 on transition to IFRSs, a significant amount of intangible assets arising on acquisition were not recognised for IFRSs purposes.
Under US GAAP, recognition of these assets was required.
Offsetting this was the recognition of a deferred tax liability under US GAAP in respect of these intangibles and gains on sale of securitised assets.
The effect of these items was further offset by the higher value under US GAAP of HSBC shares issued as part of the purchase consideration.
The HSBC share price fell between the time of the announcement of the acquisition in November 2002 and its completion in March 2003, so the average price under US GAAP exceeded the price on the date of acquisition under IFRSs.
Property IFRSs Under the transition rules of IFRS 1, HSBC elected to freeze the value of all its properties held for its own use at their 1 January 2004 valuations, their deemed cost under IFRSs.
They will not be revalued in the future.
Assets held at historical or deemed cost are depreciated except for freehold land.
Investment properties are carried at current market values with gains or losses thereon recognised in net income for the period.
Investment properties are not depreciated.
377 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Notes on the Financial Statements continued US GAAP US GAAP does not permit revaluations of property, including investment property, although it requires recognition of asset impairment.
Any realised surplus or deficit is, therefore, reflected in net income upon disposal of the property.
Depreciation is charged on all properties based on cost.
Impact Under IFRSs, the value of property held for own use reflects revaluation surpluses recorded prior to 1 January 2004.
Consequently, the values of tangible fixed assets and shareholders' equity are lower under US GAAP than under IFRSs.
There is a correspondingly lower depreciation charge and higher net income under US GAAP, partially offset by higher gains or smaller losses on the disposal of fixed assets.
For investment properties, net income under US GAAP does not reflect the gain or loss recorded under IFRSs for the period.
Derivatives and hedge accounting IFRSs Derivatives are recognised initially, and are subsequently remeasured, at fair value.
Fair values of exchangetraded derivatives are obtained from quoted market prices.
Fair values of over-the-counter OTC derivatives are obtained using valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow models and option pricing models.
In the normal course of business, the fair value of a derivative on initial recognition is considered to be the transaction price that is the fair value of the consideration given or received.
However, in certain circumstances the fair value of an instrument will be evidenced by comparison with other observable current market transactions in the same instrument without modification or repackaging or will be based on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets, including interest rate yield curves, option volatilities and currency rates.
When such evidence exists, HSBC recognises a trading gain or loss on inception of the derivative.
When unobservable market data have a significant impact on the valuation of derivatives, the entire initial change in fair value indicated by the valuation model is not recognised immediately in the income statement but is recognised over the life of the transaction on an appropriate basis or recognised in the income statement when the inputs become observable, or when the transaction matures or is closed out.
Derivatives may be embedded in other financial instruments: for example, a convertible bond has an embedded conversion option.
An embedded derivative is treated as a separate derivative when its economic characteristics and risks are not clearly and closely related to those of the host contract, its terms are the same as those of a stand-alone derivative, and the combined contract is not held for trading or designated at fair value.
These embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
Derivatives are classified as assets when their fair value is positive, or as liabilities when their fair value is negative.
Derivative assets and liabilities arising from different transactions are only netted if the transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal right of offset exists, and the cash flows are intended to be settled on a net basis.
The method of recognising the resulting fair value gains or losses depends on whether the derivative is held for trading, or is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the risk being hedged.
All gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives held for trading are recognised in the income statement.
When derivatives are designated as hedges, HSBC classifies them as either: i hedges of the change in fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or firm commitments fair value hedge : ii hedges of the variability in highly probable future cash flows attributable to a recognised asset or liability, or a forecast transaction cash flow hedge : or iii hedges of net investments in a foreign operation net investment hedge.
Hedge accounting is applied to derivatives designated as hedging instruments in a fair value, cash flow or net investment hedge provided certain criteria are met.
Hedge accounting It is HSBCs policy to document, at the inception of a hedge, the relationship between the hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the 378 hedge.
The policy also requires documentation of the assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives used in the hedging transaction are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items attributable to the hedged risks.
Interest on designated qualifying hedges is included in Net interest income.
Fair value hedge Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedging instruments are recorded in the income statement, together with changes in the fair values of the assets or liabilities or groups thereof that are attributable to the hedged risks.
If the hedging relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the cumulative adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item is amortised to the income statement based on a recalculated effective interest rate over the residual period to maturity, unless the hedged item has been derecognised whereby it is released to the income statement immediately.
Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity.
Any gain or loss relating to an ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the income statement in the periods in which the hedged item will affect the income statement.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity until the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Net investment hedge Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in a similar manner to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity: the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement on the disposal of the foreign operation.
Hedge effectiveness testing IAS 39 requires that at inception and throughout its life, each hedge must be expected to be highly effective prospective effectiveness to qualify for hedge accounting.
Actual effectiveness retrospective effectiveness must also be demonstrated on an ongoing basis.
The documentation of each hedging relationship sets out how the effectiveness of the hedge is assessed.
The method HSBC entities adopt for assessing hedge effectiveness will depend on their risk management strategies.
For prospective effectiveness, the hedging instrument must be expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk during the period for which the hedge is designated.
For retrospective effectiveness, the changes in fair value or cash flows must offset each other in the range of 80 per cent to 125 per cent for the hedge to be deemed effective.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting All gains and losses from changes in the fair value of any derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
These gains and losses are reported in Net trading income, except where derivatives are managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated 379 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Notes on the Financial Statements continued at fair value, in which case gains and losses are reported in Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value, other than interest settlements on derivatives used to hedge issues of own debt which are reported in Interest expense.
From 1 January 2004 to 31 December 2004 Derivative financial instruments comprised futures, forward, swap and option transactions undertaken by HSBC in the foreign exchange, interest rate, equity, credit derivative, and commodity markets that were held off balance sheet.
Netting was applied where a legal right of set-off existed.
Accounting for these instruments was dependent upon whether the transactions were undertaken for trading or non-trading purposes.
Trading transactions Trading transactions included transactions undertaken for market-making, to service customers needs and for proprietary purposes, as well as any related hedges.
Transactions undertaken for trading purposes were marked to market and the net present value of any gain or loss arising was recognised in the income statement as Trading income, after appropriate deferrals for unearned credit margins and future servicing costs.
Derivative trading transactions were valued by reference to an independent liquid price where this was available.
For those transactions with no readily available quoted prices, predominantly over the counter transactions, market values were determined by reference to independently sourced rates, using valuation models.
If market observable data was not available, the initial increase in fair value indicated by the valuation model, but based on unobservable inputs, was not recognised immediately in the income statement.
This amount was held back and recognised over the life of the transaction where appropriate, or released to the income statement when the inputs became observable, or when the transaction matured or was closed out.
Adjustments were made for illiquid positions when appropriate.
Assets, including gains, resulting from derivative exchange rate, interest rate, equities, credit derivative and commodity contracts which were marked to market were included in Derivatives on the asset side of the balance sheet.
Liabilities, including losses, resulting from such contracts, were included in Derivatives on the liability side of the balance sheet.
Non-trading transactions Non-trading transactions, which were those undertaken for hedging purposes as part of HSBCs risk management strategy against cash flows, assets, liabilities or positions, were measured on an accrual basis.
Non-trading transactions included qualifying hedges and positions that synthetically altered the characteristics of specified financial instruments.
Non-trading transactions were accounted for on an equivalent basis to the underlying assets, liabilities or net positions.
Any gains or losses arising were recognised on the same basis as those arising from the related assets, liabilities or positions.
To qualify as a hedge, a derivative was required effectively to reduce the price, foreign exchange or interest rate risk of the asset, liability or anticipated transaction to which it was linked and be capable of designation as a hedge at inception of the derivative contract.
Accordingly, changes in the market value of the derivative were required to be highly correlated to changes in the market value of the underlying hedged item at inception of the hedge and over the life of the hedge contract.
If these criteria were met, the derivative was accounted for on the same basis as the underlying hedged item.
Derivatives used for hedging purposes included swaps, forwards and futures.
Interest rate swaps were also used to alter synthetically the interest rate characteristics of financial instruments.
In order to qualify for synthetic alteration, a derivative instrument had to be linked to specific individual, or pools of similar, assets or liabilities by the notional principal and interest rate risks of the associated instruments, and had to achieve a result that was consistent with defined risk management objectives.
If these criteria were met, accruals based accounting was applied, i. e. income or expense was recognised and accrued to the next settlement date in accordance with the contractual terms of the agreement.
Any gain or loss arising on the termination of a qualifying derivative was deferred and amortised to earnings over the original life of the terminated contract.
Where the underlying asset, liability or position was sold or 380 terminated, the qualifying derivative was immediately marked to market and any gain or loss arising was taken to the income statement.
US GAAP The accounting under SFAS 133 Accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities is generally consistent with that under IAS 39, which HSBC has followed in its IFRSs reporting from 1 January 2005, as described above.
However, specific assumptions regarding hedge effectiveness under US GAAP are not permitted by IAS 39.
The requirements of SFAS 133 have been effective from 1 January 2001.
The US GAAP shortcut method permits an assumption of zero ineffectiveness in hedges of interest rate risk with an interest rate swap provided specific criteria have been met.
IAS 39 does not permit such an assumption, requiring a measurement of actual ineffectiveness at each designated effectiveness testing date.
In addition, IFRSs allow greater flexibility in the designation of the hedged item.
Under US GAAP, all contractual cash flows must form part of the designated relationship, whereas IAS 39 permits the designation of identifiable benchmark interest cash flows only.
Certain issued structured notes are classified as trading liabilities under IFRSs, but not under US GAAP.
Under IFRSs, these notes will be held at fair value, with changes in fair value reflected in the income statement.
Under US GAAP, if the embedded derivative is not clearly and closely related to the host contract, the embedded derivative will be bifurcated and measured at fair value, the host contract will be measured at amortised cost, and changes in both will be reflected in the income statement.
If the embedded derivative is clearly and closely related to the host contract, the issued note will be held at amortised cost in its entirety, with changes in the amortised cost reflected in the income statement.
Under US GAAP, derivatives receivable and payable with the same counterparty may be reported net on the balance sheet when there is an executed ISDA Master Netting Arrangement covering enforceable jurisdictions.
These contracts do not meet the requirements for offset under IAS 32 and hence are presented gross on the balance sheet under IFRSs.
Impact HSBCs North American subsidiaries continue to follow the shortcut method of hedge effectiveness testing for certain transactions in their US GAAP reporting.
Alternative hedge effectiveness testing methodologies are sought under IFRSs for these hedging relationships.
Apart from certain subsidiaries in North America, HSBC has chosen not to adopt hedge accounting for US GAAP purposes as this would require a designated hedged item inconsistent with the approach adopted under IFRSs.
Qualifying IAS 39 hedging derivatives have been measured at fair value with the gain or loss recognised in net income for US GAAP purposes.
Designation of financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit and loss IFRSs Under IAS 39, a financial instrument, other than one held for trading, is classified in this category if it meets the criteria set out below, and is so designated by management.
An entity may designate financial instruments at fair value where the designation: eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise from measuring financial assets or financial liabilities or recognising the gains and losses on them on different bases: or applies to a group of financial assets, financial liabilities or a combination of both that is managed and its performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy, and where information about that group of financial instruments is provided internally on that basis to management: or relates to financial instruments containing one or more embedded derivatives that significantly modify the cash flows resulting from those financial instruments.
381 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Notes on the Financial Statements continued Financial assets and financial liabilities so designated are recognised initially at fair value, with transaction costs taken directly to the income statement, and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
The designation, once made, is irrevocable in respect of the financial instruments to which it relates.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised using trade date accounting.
Gains and losses from changes in the fair value of such assets and liabilities are recognised in the income statement as they arise, together with related interest income and expense and dividends, within Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value, except for interest on own debt issued by HSBC which is reported in interest expense.
US GAAP There are no provisions in US GAAP to make an election similar to that in IAS 39.
Generally, for financial assets to be measured at fair value with gains and losses recognised immediately in the income statement, they must meet the definition of trading securities in SFAS 115 Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities SFAS 115.
Financial liabilities are usually reported at amortised cost under US GAAP.
Impact HSBC has principally used the fair value designation in the following cases: for certain fixed rate long-term debt issues whose interest rate characteristic has been changed to floating through interest rate swaps as part of a documented interest rate management strategy.
Approximately US$51 billion of the Groups debt issues have been accounted for using the option.
The movement in fair value of these debt issues includes the effect of changes in own credit spread and any ineffectiveness in the economic relationship between the related swaps and own debt.
Such ineffectiveness arises from the different credit characteristics of the swap and own debt coupled with the sensitivity of the floating leg of the swap to changes in short-term interest rates.
In addition, the economic relationship between the swap and own debt can be affected by relative movements in market factors, such as bond and swap rates, and the relative bond and swap rates at inception.
The size and direction of the accounting consequences of changes in own credit spread and ineffectiveness can be volatile from period to period, but do not alter the cash flows envisaged as part of the documented interest rate management strategy.
certain financial assets held by insurance operations and managed at fair value to meet liabilities under insurance contracts approximately US$4 billion of assets : financial liabilities under investment contracts and the related financial assets, when the change in value of the assets is correlated with the change in value of the liabilities to policyholders approximately US$8 billion of liabilities and related assets.
Under US GAAP, debt issues are reported at amortised cost.
An offsetting derivative providing an economic hedge for an asset or liability results in asymmetrical accounting, which in US GAAP is reflected in net income except for some transactions in certain subsidiaries in North America where the relationship is usually elected as a fair value hedge under SFAS 133.
Under US GAAP, assets held to meet insurance investment contracts are reported as available-for-sale, with gains and losses taken directly to Other comprehensive income.
When the corresponding liability is reported at fair value, with movements reported immediately in net income, this also results in asymmetrical accounting being reflected in US GAAP net income.
All these adjustments are included as Derivatives and hedge accounting in the reconciliations below.
Financial investments IFRSs Treasury bills, debt securities and equity shares intended to be held on a continuing basis are classified as available-for-sale securities unless designated at fair value see above or classified as held-to-maturity.
Available-for-sale securities are initially measured at fair value plus direct and incremental transaction costs.
They are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Changes in fair value are recognised in equity until the securities are either sold or impaired.
On the sale of available-for-sale securities, cumulative gains or losses previously 382 recognised in equity are recognised through the income statement and classified as Gains less losses from financial investments.
Interest income is recognised on such securities using the effective interest rate method, calculated over the assets expected life.
When dated investment securities are purchased at a premium or a discount, the premiums and discounts are included in the calculation of the effective interest rate.
If an available-for-sale security is determined to be impaired, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
Foreign exchange differences on available-for-sale securities denominated in foreign currency are recognised in net income to the extent that they relate to the translation of the amortised cost of the security.
1 January 2004 to 31 December 2004 Debt securities and equity shares intended to be held on a continuing basis were classified as financial investments and included in the balance sheet at cost less provision for any permanent diminution in value.
Other participating interests were accounted for on the same basis.
Premiums or discounts on dated investment securities purchased at other than face value were amortised through the income statement over the period from date of purchase to date of maturity and included in Interest income.
Any gain or loss on realisation of these securities was recognised in the income statement as it arose and included in Gains less losses from financial investments.
Foreign exchange differences on foreign currency-denominated monetary items, including securities, were recognised in the income statement.
US GAAP All debt securities and equity shares with a readily determinable fair value are classified and disclosed within one of the following three categories: held-to-maturity: available-for-sale: or trading SFAS 115.
Held-to-maturity debt securities are measured at amortised cost less any provision other than for temporary impairment.
Available-for-sale securities are measured at fair value with unrealised holding gains and losses excluded from earnings and reported net of applicable taxes and minority interests as a separate component of shareholders funds.
Foreign exchange differences on available-for-sale securities denominated in foreign currency are also excluded from earnings and recorded as part of the same separate component of shareholders funds.
A decline in fair value below the cost of an available-for-sale or held-to-maturity security is treated as a realised loss and included in earnings if it is considered other than temporary.
The reduced fair value is then treated as the cost basis for the security.
A decline in fair value is generally considered other than temporary when management does not intend or expect to hold the investment for sufficient time to enable the fair value to rise back to the original cost of the investment.
Equity shares that do not have a readily determinable fair value are measured at cost, less any provisions for impairment, and are reported within Other assets.
Under SFAS 115, the fair value of an equity share is readily determinable if quotations are currently available on a recognised exchange.
Impact In 2004, available-for-sale securities, excluding equity shares that do not have a readily determinable fair value, were recorded at fair value in the US GAAP balance sheet.
This value was higher than cost in the comparative IFRSs balance sheet.
In 2005, certain assets have been reported as designated as at fair value for IFRSs purposes see above.
Under US GAAP, equity shares that do not have a readily determinable fair value as defined in SFAS 115 are recorded at cost rather than at fair value under IFRSs.
383 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Notes on the Financial Statements continued Foreign exchange differences on available-for-sale securities denominated in foreign currency are recognised in Net income under IFRSs.
Under US GAAP, they are not reflected in net income but are deferred and recognised on maturity or sale of the security.
Subsequent recoveries in the value of an impaired debt security are not reported in net income for US GAAP purposes.
Interests in own shares held IFRSs In accordance with IAS 32, long positions in HSBC Holdings shares are deducted from shareholders funds.
No gains or losses are recognised on own shares held.
IAS 32 also applies to derivatives over HSBCs own shares, when they meet the definition of an equity instrument, and HSBC shares held to meet liabilities under insurance and investment contracts.
US GAAP AICPA Accounting Research Bulletin 51, Consolidated Financial Statements ARB 1, requires a reduction in shareholders equity for own shares held.
The rules in ARB 51 do not extend to derivatives over own shares.
AICPA Accounting Research Bulletin 43 Restatement and Revision of Accounting Research Bulletins also requires a reduction in shareholders equity for own shares held.
HSBC shares held within Long-term assurance assets attributable to policyholders are classified as an asset when the criteria for classification as separate accounts are met.
Impact Certain HSBC insurance operations hold shares in HSBC as part of policyholder funds that qualify for classification as separate accounts.
These shares represent an addition to shareholders equity for US GAAP purposes and are reported within Other assets with gains and losses during the period reported in Other income, where they are matched with corresponding movements in the amounts attributable to policyholders.
No such gains and losses are recognised under IFRSs and the cost of the shares is deducted from shareholders equity.
Loan origination IFRSs From 1 January 2005 Certain loan fee income and incremental directly attributable loan origination costs are amortised to the income statement over the life of the loan as part of the effective interest calculation under IAS 39.
1 January 2004 to 31 December 2004 Prior to 1 January 2005, fee and commission income was accounted for in the period when receivable, except when charged to cover the costs of a continuing service to, or risk borne for, the customer, or was interest in nature.
In these cases, income was recognised on an appropriate basis over the relevant period.
Loan costs associated with origination were generally expensed as incurred.
US GAAP Certain loan fee income and direct but not necessarily incremental loan origination costs, including an apportionment of overheads, are amortised to the income statement account over the life of the loan as an adjustment to interest income SFAS 91, Accounting for Non-refundable Fees and Costs Associated with Originating or Acquiring Loans and Initial Direct Costs of Leases.
Impact More costs are deferred and amortised under US GAAP, such as an apportionment of base salaries, than under IFRSs.
Base salaries are neither incremental nor directly attributable to a specific loan origination, and so are written off in the period they are incurred under IFRSs.
This difference in treatment results in increased net 384 income and shareholders equity under US GAAP because, in the years presented, the extra cost deferral under US GAAP exceeds the amortisation of previously deferred costs.
Securitisations IFRSs The recognition of securitised assets is governed by a three-step process, which may be applied to the whole asset, or a part of an asset: If the rights to the cash flows arising from securitised assets have been transferred to a third party, and all the risks and rewards of the assets have been transferred the assets concerned are derecognised.
If the rights to the cash flows are retained by HSBC but there is a contractual obligation to pay them to another party, the securitised assets concerned are derecognised if certain conditions are met such as, for example, when there is no obligation to pay amounts to the eventual recipient unless an equivalent amount is collected from the original asset.
If some significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred, but some have also been retained, it must be determined whether or not control has been retained.
If control has been retained, HSBC continues to recognise the asset to the extent of its continuing involvement: if not, the asset is derecognised.
US GAAP SFAS 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Finance Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities, requires that receivables that are sold to a special purpose entity SPE and securitised can only be derecognised and a gain or loss on sale recognised if the originator has surrendered control over the securitised assets.
Control is surrendered over transferred assets if and only if all of the following conditions are met: The transferred assets are put presumptively beyond the reach of the transferor and its creditors, even in bankruptcy or other receivership.
Each holder of interests in the transferee i. e. holder of issued notes has the right to pledge or exchange their beneficial interests, and no condition constrains this right and provides more than a trivial benefit to the transferor.
The transferor does not maintain effective control over the assets through either an agreement that obligates the transferor to repurchase or to redeem them before their maturity, or through the ability to unilaterally cause the holder to return specific assets other than through a clean-up call.
If these conditions are not met the securitised assets continue to be consolidated.
When HSBC retains an interest in securitised assets, such as a servicing right or the right to residual cash flows from the special purpose entity, HSBC recognises this interest at fair value on sale of the assets to the SPE.
Impact Gains on sale of assets to securitisation vehicles are recognised under US GAAP in cases when no such gain is recognised under IFRSs.
This results in higher US GAAP net income in periods in which there is significant securitisation activity.
Since early 2004, HSBC has reduced securitisation activity that results in gain on sale accounting under US GAAP.
As a result, net income is lower under US GAAP because the amortisation of HSBCs retained interest in previous securitisations exceeds the gains on new transactions where a gain is recognised.
The new transactions largely replenish short-term loan assets held by existing vehicles.
Consolidation of Special Purpose Entities or Variable Interest Entities IFRSs Under the IASBs Standards Interpretations Committee SIC Interpretation 12 SIC-12, an SPE should be consolidated when the substance of the relationship between an enterprise and the SPE indicates that the SPE is controlled by that entity.
385 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Notes on the Financial Statements continued US GAAP FASB Interpretation No.
46 revised December 2003, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities FIN 46R, requires consolidation of variable interest entities VIEs in which HSBC is the primary beneficiary and disclosures in respect of all other VIEs in which it has a significant variable interest.
A VIE is an entity in which equity investors hold an investment that does not possess the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or does not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities.
HSBC is the primary beneficiary of a VIE if its variable interests absorb a majority of the entitys expected losses.
Variable interests are contractual, ownership or other pecuniary interests in an entity that change with changes in the fair value of an entitys net assets exclusive of variable interests.
If no party absorbs a majority of the entitys expected losses, HSBC consolidates the VIE if it receives a majority of the expected residual returns of the entity.
Impact When HSBC is deemed the primary beneficiary under US GAAP, but does not consolidate the vehicle under IFRSs, the assets and liabilities of that vehicle are consolidated on the US GAAP balance sheet.
This results in a grossing up of the balance sheet but does not have a material impact on net income for the period or on shareholders' equity.
When HSBC is deemed not to be the primary beneficiary under US GAAP of a vehicle that is consolidated under IFRSs, the assets and liabilities of that vehicle are fide-consolidated in the US GAAP balance sheet.
This results in a reclassification in the 2004 balance sheet but does not have a material impact on shareholders' equity or on net income for 2004 or 2005.
Restructuring provisions IFRSs In accordance with IAS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, provisions are made for any direct costs and net future operating losses arising from a business that management is committed to restructure, sell or terminate: has a detailed formal plan to exit: and has raised a valid expectation of carrying out that plan.
US GAAP SFAS 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities, requires that the fair value of a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognised when the liability is incurred.
Accordingly, provisions are recognised upon the implementation of the restructuring plan.
Impact The recognition of costs associated with plans to restructure and streamline operations is earlier under IFRSs than under US GAAP, for example, where there is a time lag between developing and communicating a formal plan, and putting it into practice.
This resulted in marginally higher net income and shareholders equity under US GAAP in 2005.
Loan impairment IFRSs When statistical models, using historic loss rates adjusted for economic conditions, provide evidence of impairment in portfolios of loans, their values are written down to their net recoverable amount.
The net recoverable amount is the present value of the estimated future recoveries discounted at the portfolios original effective interest rate.
The calculations include a reasonable estimate of recoveries on loans individually identified for write-off pursuant to HSBCs credit guidelines.
US GAAP When the delinquency status of loans in a portfolio is such that there is no realistic prospect of recovery, the loans are written off in full, or to recoverable value where collateral exists.
Delinquency depends on the number of days payments is overdue.
The delinquency status is applied consistently across similar loan products in accordance with HSBCs credit guidelines.
When local regulators mandate the delinquency status at which 386 write-off must occur for different retail loan products and these regulations reasonably reflect estimated recoveries on individual loans, this basis of measuring loan impairment is reflected in US GAAP accounting.
Cash recoveries relating to pools of such written-off loans, if any, are reported as loan recoveries upon collection.
Impact Under both IFRSs and US GAAP, HSBCs policy and regulatory instructions mandate that individual loans evidencing adverse credit characteristics which indicate no reasonable likelihood of recovery, are written off.
When, on a portfolio basis, cash flows can reasonably be estimated in aggregate from these written-off loans, an asset equal to the present value of the future cash flows is recognised under IFRSs.
No asset for future recoveries arising from written-off assets was recognised in the balance sheet under IFRSs prior to 1 January 2005.
Interest recognition IFRSs The calculation and recognition of effective interest rates under IAS 39 requires an estimate of all fees and points paid or received between parties to the contract that are an integral part of the effective interest rate be included.
US GAAP FAS 91 also generally requires all fees and costs associated with originating a loan to be recognised as interest but, when the interest rate increases during the term of the loan, it prohibits the recognition of interest income to the extent that the net investment in the loan would increase to an amount greater than the amount at which the borrower could settle the obligation.
Impact When HSBC provides introductory incentives in the form of either a low or nil interest rate for the early period of a loan, interest income on such products is recognised under IFRSs on the basis of the overall effective interest rate over the expected life of the product.
No interest income is recognised during the incentive period under US GAAP.
There is no overall impact on US GAAP net income or shareholders equity.
388 Consolidated US GAAP balance sheet The following table provides an estimated summarised consolidated balance sheet for HSBC which incorporates the adjustments arising from the application of US GAAP.
The format of the US GAAP balance sheet, including comparatives, has been aligned with that of the format for the consolidated balance sheet under IFRSs which was adopted in 2005.
Net liabilities arising due to repo transactions of US$24,113 million 2004: US$11,590 million and US$51,633 million 2004: US$32,137 million are included in Deposits by banks and Customer accounts respectively.
Average repo liabilities during the year were US$74,143 million 2004: US$46,229 million.
The maximum quarterend repo liability outstanding during the year was US$78,590 million 2004: US$53,188 million.
At 31 December 2005, collateral received under reverse repo transactions which HSBC had the right to sell or repledge amounted to US$103,977 million gross 2004: US$84,767 million.
Approximately US$79 billion 2004: approximately US$36 billion of the collateral obtained from reverse repo transactions had been sold or repledged by HSBC in connection with repo transactions and securities sold not yet purchased.
389 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Notes on the Financial Statements continued HSBC also enters into stock lending and borrowing transactions by which either cash or other securities may be received in exchange for stock.
At 31 December 2005, stock borrowing transactions where the securities borrowed were subject to sale or repledge amounted to US$25,783 million 2004: US$28,354 million.
a Pension and post-retirement costs Pensions For the purpose of the above reconciliations, the provisions of SFAS 87 Employers accounting for pensions have been applied to HSBCs main defined benefit pension plans, which make up approximately 96 per cent of all HSBCs schemes by plan assets.
For non-US schemes, HSBC has applied SFAS 87 with effect from 30 June 1992 as it was not feasible to apply it as at 1 January 1989, the date specified in the standard.
When a pension plans accumulated benefit obligation the value of the benefits accrued based on employee service up to the balance sheet date exceeds the fair value of its assets, an additional minimum pension liability equal to this excess is recognised by the employer to the extent that the excess is greater than any accrual which has already been established for unfunded pension costs.
Simultaneously, an intangible asset is established equal to the lower of the liability recognised for the unfunded benefit obligation and the amount of any unrecognised prior service cost.
At 31 December 2005, HSBC recognised an additional minimum pension liability of US$3,206 million 2004: US$3,261 million in respect of its unfunded accumulated benefit obligation.
This liability was partially offset in 2004 by an intangible asset of US$12 million.
The net effect of these items was to increase HSBCs total shareholders equity under US GAAP by US$1,585 million 2004: US$1,557million compared with the net pension surplus or deficit recognised under IFRSs.
Plans with an aggregate projected benefit obligation of US$22,595 million 2004: US$22,914 million and assets with an aggregate fair value of US$18,795 million 2004: US$17,422 million had a projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets.
The projected benefit obligations at 31 December 2005 and 2004 for HSBCs main pension plans have been calculated using the same financial assumptions as detailed in note 7.
Under IFRSs and before them, UK GAAP, goodwill arising on acquisitions made on or after 1 January 1998 is included in the balance sheet in Goodwill and intangible assets in respect of subsidiary undertakings, and in Interests in associates and joint ventures in respect of associates and joint ventures.
Capitalised goodwill was amortised over its estimated useful life on a straight-line basis until the adoption of IFRSs on 1 January 2004, since then it is not amortised but is subject to annual impairment testing.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 January 1998 was charged against reserves in the year of acquisition.
This goodwill was not reinstated on the balance sheet upon adoption of IFRSs.
Under US GAAP, goodwill on acquisitions made before 1 July 2001, including those made before 1 January 1998, would have been capitalised and amortised over its useful economic life.
Goodwill on acquisitions made after 1 July 2001 is capitalised but not amortised, and is subject to annual impairment testing.
Goodwill on acquisitions made before 1 July 2001 ceased to be amortised on 1 January 2002 and is subject to annual impairment testing.
At 31 December 2005, the cost of goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings on a US GAAP basis was US$34,147 million 2004: US$36,084 million and the accumulated amortisation of goodwill was US$3,873 million 2004: US$4,385 million.
The additional intangible assets recognised under US GAAP represent those acquired in business combinations during the period between SFAS 141 Business combinations becoming effective on 30 June 2001 and IFRSs being adopted on 1 January 2004.
They primarily comprise credit card and other loan relationships, merchant relationships and other intangibles assumed on the acquisition of HSBC Finance.
Provision for impairment in 2004 relates to the write-down of mortgage servicing rights, as a low interest rate environment has encouraged consumers to refinance mortgages at a faster rate than initially expected.
Part of this provision was released in 2005 as prepayment rates slowed.
HSBC conducts an annual impairment test of intangible assets which are not subject to annual amortisation since HSBC determines these assets have indefinite lives.
As a result of this testing, an impairment charge of US$13 million was recorded related to a trade name in the United Kingdom.
Under IFRS, HSBC has elected either hedge accounting or fair value option for certain hedging relationships.
With the exception of US operating subsidiaries, HSBC has not elected hedge accounting in its US GAAP financial statements.
HSBCs US operating subsidiaries designate certain derivative financial instruments as qualifying hedges of under SFAS 133.
When the critical terms of the hedge instrument are identical to those of the hedged item at the hedge inception date, HSBC's US subsidiaries make use of the assumption of no ineffectiveness in its fair value hedge accounting 392 commonly referred to as the 'shortcut' method for certain of these hedging relationships.
As a result, no retrospective or prospective assessment of effectiveness is required and no hedge ineffectiveness is recognised.
If any one of the criteria for utilising the shortcut method was not met, the hedging relationship was either accounted for under the 'long-haul' method whereby effectiveness is assessed and ineffectiveness on effective hedges is recorded in the income statement, or the hedge relationship was determined to be ineffective for accounting purposes and the derivative was marked to market with gains and losses recorded directly in net income.
During 2005, new designations of hedges have generally been designated using the long-haul method of accounting under SFAS 133 and certain relationships have been re-designated using this method.
As a result, there were no longer any cash flow hedges using the shortcut method of accounting at 31 December 2005, and HSBCs US operating subsidiaries have significantly reduced the number of fair value hedges using the shortcut method of accounting at this date.
The following table summarises HSBC's hedges of financial instruments that have been designated and qualify as effective hedges under SFAS 133 at the end of the period.
Nominal values Number of derivatives Fair value Cash flow Fair value Cash flow Fair value Cash flow Fair value Cash flow hedges hedges hedges hedges hedges hedges hedges hedges 2005 2005 2004 2004 2005 2005 2004 2004 US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn Financial investments: Available for sale debt securities Shortcut.......... 1.0 1 38 Long-haul....... 0.2 10 Customer deposits Shortcut.......... 1.0 10.4 817 Long-haul....... 6.8 5.8 117 17 Debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities Shortcut.......... 3.0 16.5 11.6 16 119 106 Long-haul....... 18.2 46.8 9.3 6.6 45 165 29 10 Total................... 21.4 53.6 27.8 34.4 73 182 194 150 Fair value hedges HSBCs US operating subsidiaries designate certain derivative financial instruments as qualifying fair value hedges of certain fixed rate assets and liabilities under SFAS 133.
In order to qualify initially, hedge effectiveness is assessed and demonstrated on a prospective basis utilising statistical regression analysis.
2004 During 2004, the short-cut method of accounting could not be utilised for a small number of fair value hedges of fixed rate liabilities.
Ineffectiveness of such fair value hedges recognised in 2004 in net income under US GAAP but not under IFRS was a gain of US$1 million.
HSBCs US mortgage bank has historically hedged fixed rate closed residential mortgage loans held for sale with forward sale commitments.
In 2004, ineffectiveness on these hedging activities recognised in net income under US GAAP but not under IFRS was a gain of US$2 million.
Such hedging activity was ceased on 30 September 2005.
393 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Notes on the Financial Statements continued 2005 Since 1 January 2005, almost all derivatives designated as fair value hedges under US GAAP in HSBCs US operating subsidiaries have been reported under the fair value option for IFRSs purposes, with movements in fair value reported as Net income from financial instruments designated as at fair value.
Reporting of these arrangements as fair value hedges under US GAAP resulted in decreased net income for 2005 of US$179 million, including US$7 million arising from elimination of losses due to movements in own credit spread recorded in IFRSs net income and reduced ineffectiveness of US$172 million on shortcut fair value hedges for US GAAP purposes.
In addition, there were US$102 million of losses on such derivatives that did not qualify for hedging accounting under US GAAP.
On electing to report under the fair value option under IAS 39, unamortised purchase accounting adjustments on HSBC Finance Corporation's own debt were eliminated through retained earnings upon transition to IAS 39 on 1 January 2005.
As a result, a US$409 million benefit to 2005 US GAAP net income was not recognised under IFRS.
Cash flow hedges HSBCs US operating subsidiaries designate under SFAS 133 certain derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and future contracts, as qualifying cash flow hedges of the forecast repricing of certain deposit liabilities and issues of debt.
A number of variable rate commercial loans were also subject to cash flow hedges up until 2004.
In order to qualify initially, hedge effectiveness is assessed and demonstrated on a prospective basis utilising both statistical regression analysis and the cumulative dollar offset method.
The latter is used in order to satisfy the retrospective assessment of effectiveness for SFAS 133, and subsequent ineffectiveness is recognised in the income statement on a monthly basis.
The time value component of the derivative contracts is excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness.
2004 Ineffectiveness of cash flow hedging activities resulted in a loss of US$1 million being recognised in net income reported under US GAAP for 2004.
Shareholders equity at 31 December 2004 increased by US$133 million under US GAAP as a result of these hedges.
2005 Since 1 January 2005, such hedging arrangements have been recognised as cash flow hedges for IFRSs purposes.
US GAAP net income for 2005 was lower than that under IFRSs by US$6 million, relating to unrecorded ineffectiveness on shortcut cash flow hedges for US GAAP purposes.
Trading derivatives 2004 All other IFRSs hedging derivatives were marked to market in 2004 for US GAAP purposes with the gain or loss recognised in net income for the period.
This gave rise to an increase in US GAAP reported net income for 2004 of US$210 million.
The other principal effect of applying SFAS 133 at 31 December 2004 was to reduce Other assets by US$5,487 million and Other liabilities by US$5,754 million.
Under IFRSs, prior to 2005, internal derivatives used to hedge banking book transactions could be accruals accounted but, under US GAAP, all derivatives were held at fair value.
2005 From 1 January 2005, certain hedging relationships outside North America were elected and qualified as fair value hedges, were designated under the fair value option, or were elected and qualified as cash flow hedges under IAS 39, but were not elected as hedges under SFAS 133.
The mark to market for these derivatives has been reported directly in net income for US GAAP purposes.
394 For fair value hedges recognised under IFRSs, no corresponding, offsetting fair value movement of the hedged item with respect to the hedged risk has been recorded for US GAAP purposes.
For hedging relationships designated as at fair value for IFRSs purposes, no fair value movement in respect of own debt is recorded under US GAAP.
The effect of this was to decrease US GAAP net income by US$1,266 million, net of elimination of a loss under IFRS of US$76 million of own credit spread, outside North America.
Fair value option 2005 only HSBC has also applied the fair value option under IFRSs to groups of financial assets and liabilities which are managed and evaluated on a fair value basis, and to financial instruments containing embedded derivatives see note 3.
In addition, movements in the fair value of certain liabilities which meet the definition of held for trading under IAS 39 are taken through net income.
US GAAP does not include a fair value election and does not generally permit liabilities to be reported at fair value.
The elimination of such accounting reduced US GAAP net income for 2005 by US$733 million.
e Foreign exchange gains on available-for-sale securities HSBC holds, in a number of different currencies, securities which are classified as available-for-sale within individual legal entities.
For example, in the private bank in Switzerland, for which the US dollar is the reporting currency, the Group holds euro-denominated bonds funded in euros and Swiss franc securities funded in Swiss francs.
No foreign exchange exposure arises from this because, although the value of the assets in US dollars changes with the exchange rate, there is an identical offsetting change in the US dollar value of the related funding.
Under IFRSs both the assets and the liabilities are translated at closing exchange rates and the differences between historical book value and current value are reflected in foreign exchange dealing profits.
This reflects the economic substance of holding currency assets financed by currency liabilities.
However, under US GAAP, SFAS 115 and Emerging Issues Task Force EITF Abstract 96-15 Accounting for the Effects of Changes in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates on  Availablefor-sale Debt Securities the change in value of the investments classified as available-for-sale is taken directly to reserves while the offsetting change in US dollar terms of the borrowing is taken to earnings.
This leads to an accounting result which, although in compliance with US GAAP, does not necessarily reflect either the underlying risk position or the economics of the transactions.
It is also a situation that will reverse on maturity of the asset or earlier sale.
A similar difference arises when foreign currency exposures on foreign currency assets are covered using forward contracts but HSBC does not manage these hedges to conform with the detailed hedge designation requirements of SFAS 133.
The result is that for 2005, US GAAP net income increased by US$2,235 million 2004: increased by US$1,069 million compared with IFRSs net income.
There was no difference in total shareholders equity between IFRSs and US GAAP as a result of this reconciling item.
The adjustment for 2005 and 2004 largely reflects the reversal of adjustments in prior periods on the maturity or disposal of securities.
The impact in 2005 also included increased US GAAP net income as a result of a strengthening of the US and Hong Kong dollar against the principal currencies in which HSBC hold available for sale securities.
The impact in 2004 was offset by the effect of a weakening in the US and Hong Kong dollar against these principal currencies.
f Investment securities Under US GAAP, HSBCs financial investments with a readily determinable market value are classified as available-for-sale securities, except for certain securities held by Republic New York Corporation at acquisition, which were classified as held-to-maturity.
All other securities are categorised as trading securities.
HSBC has taken advantage of the exemption within IFRS 1 from presenting comparative information for 2004 in accordance with IAS 32 and IAS 39.
Consequently, comparative IFRSs information has been prepared in accordance with HSBCs previous accounting policies, disclosed separately in Note 46 g. In 2005, the IFRSs to US GAAP adjustment to financial instruments reduces shareholders equity by US$597 million because under US GAAP equity shares that do not have a readily determinable fair value as 395 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Notes on the Financial Statements continued defined in SFAS 115 are measured at cost less provision for any permanent diminution in value.
This is lower than the fair value at which they are measured under IAS 39, which is determined by comparison to similar equity investments which are quoted, or by using discounted cash flow calculations.
In 2004, all financial investments were reported under IFRSs at cost less provision for any permanent diminution in value.
The increase in the US GAAP balance sheet of US$1,969 million represents the excess of fair value over cost less provisions for permanent diminution in value for debt securities and equity shares with a readily determinable fair value.
The amortised cost of available-for-sale investment securities which are subject to the provisions of SFAS 115 was US$188,868 million 2004: US$173,607 million under US GAAP.
During the year, excluding the effects of foreign exchange, US$899 million 2004: gains of US$376 million of net unrealised losses on available-for-sale securities were included in Other comprehensive income.
US$626 million 2004: gains of US$476 million of net gains were reclassified out of Other comprehensive income and recognised as part of income for the year.
During 2004, HSBC recorded net losses under US GAAP of US$127 million in respect of impairments of available-for-sale securities which were considered to be other than temporary.
These losses were treated as realised items and included in net income.
Since 1 January 2005, the recording of impairments of available-forsale securities has been consistent between IFRSs and US GAAP.
Under both IFRSs and US GAAP, HSBC recognises in the income statement an other-than-temporary impairment if the market value of an investment security has been significantly below its carrying value for a period exceeding six months.
The only exception to this policy is in respect of debt securities whose decline in market value is due solely to an increase in underlying interest rates, and which HSBC has the ability to hold until maturity.
None of the securities disclosed in the table above were considered  impaired at 31 December 2005.
A valuation allowance is established to reduce deferred tax assets if, based on available evidence, it is considered more likely than not that any of the deferred tax assets will not be realised.
At 31 December 2005, HSBC had recognised deferred tax assets in respect of tax losses net of valuation allowances totalling US$223 million 2004: US$115 million, of which US$4 million 2004: US$7 million expire within two to five years and US$219 million 2004: US$108 million expire in 5 years or more.
h Loans and advances Loans assessed under SFAS 114 Accounting by creditors for impairment of a loan SFAS 114 was amended by SFAS 118 Accounting by creditors for impairment of a loan income recognition and disclosures.
SFAS 114 addresses accounting by creditors for impairment of a loan by specifying how allowances for credit losses for certain loans should be determined.
A loan is impaired when it is probable that the creditor will be unable to collect all amounts in accordance with the contractual terms of the loan agreement.
Impairment is measured based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loans effective rate or, as an expedient, at the fair value of the loans collateral.
Leases, smaller-balance homogeneous loans and debt securities are excluded from the scope of SFAS 114.
At 31 December 2005, HSBC estimated that the difference between the carrying value of its loan portfolio on the basis of SFAS 114 and its value in HSBCs IFRSs financial statements was such that no adjustment to net income or total shareholders equity was required.
The value of impaired loans at 31 December 2005 was US$11,535 million 2004: US$12,453 million.
Of this total, loans which were included within the scope of SFAS 114 and for which a provision had been established amounted to US$5,082 million 2004: US$6,780 million.
The impairment reserve in respect of these loans estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 114 was US$2,675 million 2004: US$3,981 million.
During the year ended 31 December 2005, impaired loans, including those excluded from the scope of SFAS 114, averaged US$11,289 million 2004: US$13,739 million and interest income recognised on these loans was US$120 million 2004: US$184 million.
397 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Notes on the Financial Statements continued Loans outside the scope of SFAS 114 For smaller-balance homogeneous loans for which future cash flows from written-off balances can reasonably be estimated on a portfolio basis, an asset equal to the present value of the cash flows is recognised under IFRSs as it was previously under UK GAAP.
This asset is not recognised for US GAAP purposes.
This divergence resulted in higher net income in 2005 of US$20 million under US GAAP compared with IFRSs, and a reduction in the carrying value of loans and advances to customers and shareholders equity at 31 December 2005 of US$327 million.
There was no difference in reported net income or shareholders equity for 2004. i Earnings per share Basic earnings per share under US GAAP, SFAS 128 Earnings per Share, is calculated by dividing net income of US$14,703 million 2004: US$12,506 million by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue in 2005 of 11,042 million 2004: 10,916 million.
Diluted earnings per share under US GAAP is calculated by dividing net income, which requires no adjustment for the effects of dilutive ordinary potential shares, by the weighted average number of shares outstanding plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares in 2005 of 11,334 million 2004: 11,063 million.
j Variable interest entities VIEs Nature, purpose and activities of VIEs with which HSBC is involved HSBC uses VIE structures in the normal course of business in a variety of activities outlined below, but primarily to facilitate client needs.
HSBCs involvement in VIEs is, therefore, commercially driven.
VIEs are only used after careful consideration is given to the most appropriate structure to achieve HSBCs objectives from control, risk allocation, taxation and regulatory perspectives.
The main VIEs are discussed below.
i Asset-backed conduits ABCs and securitisation vehicles ABCs and securitisation vehicles are structures in which interests in consumer and commercial receivables are sold to investors.
ABCs generally consist of entities which purchase assets from clients to meet their financing needs, while securitisation vehicles generally acquire assets originated by HSBC itself and thereby provide HSBC with a cost-effective source of financing.
Under both structures, commercial paper, notes, or equity interests are issued to investors to fund the purchase of receivables, and cash received from the receivables is used to service the finance provided by the investors.
In certain instances, HSBC receives fees for providing liquidity facility commitments and for acting as administrator of the vehicle.
HSBCs exposure to loss generally arises from commitments to provide back-up liquidity facilities for the vehicles: interest-rate swaps in which HSBC is the counterparty: retained or acquired interests in the receivables sold: or acquired interests in the vehicles themselves.
In certain vehicles, the risk of loss to HSBC is reduced by credit enhancements provided by the originator of the receivables or other parties.
In addition to these securitisation vehicles, HSBC primarily through its North American subsidiaries securitises assets through entities that are not considered VIEs, including government-sponsored financing vehicles and vehicles considered qualifying special-purpose entities under US GAAP.
These entities are not consolidated under US GAAP although certain of them are consolidated under IFRSs.
ii Infrastructure projects and funds HSBC acts as an arranger for both public and private infrastructure projects and funds.
The use of VIE structures in such projects is common as a method of attracting a wider class of investor by dividing into tranches the risk associated with such projects.
HSBCs exposure to loss generally arises from the provision of subordinated or mezzanine debt finance to projects, either directly or through a consolidated investment fund investing in infrastructure projects.
HSBC is deemed to be the primary beneficiary of an infrastructure project or fund when its investment in a projects equity, subordinated debt or mezzanine debt, or its interest in a fund, is at a level at which it absorbs the majority of the expected losses or residual returns of the project or fund.
398 Application of FIN 46R FIN 46R requires the consolidation of VIEs in which HSBC is the primary beneficiary, and disclosures in respect of other VIEs in which HSBC has a significant variable interest.
Under IFRSs, HSBC consolidates entities in which it has a controlling interest.
As IFRSs normally require a risk and rewards approach to consolidation, HSBCs interests in entities deemed to be VIEs may result in differences in accounting and disclosure treatment under US GAAP.
The remaining balance consisted of guaranteed pension funds, investment funds, and other entities.
Certain of these entities with assets of approximately US$19,475 million at 31 December 2005 2004: US$12,256 million were consolidated by HSBC in its IFRSs financial statements.
There was no significant impact on net income under US GAAP for the year ended 31 December 2005 as a result of consolidating these VIEs.
HSBC also had significant involvement in, but was not the primary beneficiary of, VIEs with total assets of approximately US$86.2 billion 2004: US$32.8 billion, including asset-backed commercial paper conduits and securitisation vehicles with assets of approximately US$27.7 billion 2004: US$15.8 billion, infrastructure projects and funds of approximately US$6.2 billion 2004: US$4.5 billion, and interests in investment funds, low income housing tax credit partnerships, guaranteed pension funds, government debt restructuring programmes and other entities.
HSBCs maximum exposure to loss in relation to these entities was estimated at US$9.7 billion 2004: US$10.7 billion which arose from guarantees, retained interests and recourse liabilities.
HSBC was also involved in other investment funds and similar entities that are considered VIEs for which its involvement was limited to that of administrator, investment adviser, or other service provider.
In addition, HSBC had an interest in certain capital funding vehicles that are consolidated under IFRSs.
However, under US GAAP, these vehicles were not recognised on HSBCs balance sheet because it was not the primary beneficiary.
HSBCs deconsolidation of these vehicles resulted in non-equity minority interests under IFRSs of US$10,114 million being reclassified as subordinated liabilities under US GAAP at 31 December 2004. k Consolidated cash flow statement HSBC prepares its cash flow statement in accordance with IAS 7 Cash Flow Statements, which is consistent with the objectives and principles of SFAS 95 Statement of cash flows as amended by SFAS 104 Statement of Cash Flows Net Reporting of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments and Classification of Cash Flows from Hedging Transactions.
l Securitisations HSBC Finance Following the acquisition of HSBC Finance Corporation in 2003, HSBC increased its securitisation activity and the following discussion relates only to HSBC Finance Corporations securitisation activities including securitised credit card receivables transferred to HSBC Bank USA.
In other HSBC entities such activities do not represent a significant part of HSBCs business and retained interests in securitisations are not significant.
In the third quarter of 2004, HSBC began to structure all new collateralised funding transactions as secured financings.
In a secured financing, the underlying receivables and debt remain on HSBCs balance sheet.
HSBC 399 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Notes on the Financial Statements continued does not recognise a gain in a secured financing transaction.
At 31 December 2005, secured financings of US$18.2 billion included in long-term debt were secured by US$25.6 billion of customer loans.
Prior to the third quarter of 2004, HSBC sold MasterCard and Visa private label, personal non-credit card and vehicle finance loans in various securitisation transactions.
HSBC continues to service and receive servicing fees on the outstanding balance of these securitised loans and retains rights to future cash flows arising from the loans after the investors receive their contractual return.
HSBC has also, in certain cases, retained other subordinated interests in these securitisations.
These transactions result in the recording of interest-only strip receivables, which represent the value of the future residual cash flows from securitised loans.
The investors and the securitisation trusts have only limited recourse to HSBC assets for failure of debtors to pay.
That recourse is limited to HSBCs rights to future cash flows and any subordinated interest retained.
Servicing assets and liabilities are not recognised in conjunction with securitisations since HSBC receives adequate compensation relative to current market rates to service the loans sold.
 revenue includes income associated with the current and prior period securitisation of loans with limited recourse structured as sales under US GAAP.
Such income includes gains on sales, net of the estimate of probable credit losses under the recourse provisions, servicing income and excess spread relating to those loans.
Net initial gains, which represent gross initial gains net of managements estimate of probable credit losses under the recourse provisions, and the key economic assumptions used in measuring the net initial gains from securitisations, were as follows: Personal Vehicle MasterCard Private non-credit 2005 finance Visa label card Total Net initial gains US$ millions........ 2004 1 Net initial gains US$ millions........ 6 145 25 2 Key economic assumptions Weighted average life in years... 2.1 0.3 0.4 Payment speed.............................. 35.0% 93.5% 93.5% Expected credit losses annual rate.......................................... 5.7% 4.9% 4.8% Discount rate for future cash flows................................ 10.0% 9.0% 10.0% Cost of funds................................ 3.0% 1.5% 1.4% 1 In 2004, vehicle finance was involved in a securitisation which later was restructured as a secured financing.
The initial gain reflected above was the gain on the initial transaction that remained after the securitisation was restructured.
2 Weighted average rates for securitisations entered into during the year for securitisations of loans with similar characteristics.
Certain revolving securitisation trusts, such as credit cards, are established at fixed levels and require frequent sales of new loan balances into the trusts to replace loans as they run off.
These replenishments totalled US$17.5 billion in 2005 2004: US$30.3 billion.
Net gains gross gains less estimated credit losses under the recourse provisions related to these replenishments were calculated using weighted average assumptions consistent with those used for calculating gains on initial securitisations, and totalled US$154 million in 2005 2004: US$414 million.
400 Cash flows received from securitisation trusts were as follows: Personal Real estate Vehicle MasterCard Private non-credit secured finance Visa label card Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2005 Proceeds from initial securitisations.....................
Servicing fees received............ 45 9750 99 291 Other cash flows received on 1 retained interests................ 30 239 109 2 316 2004 Proceeds from initial securitisations..................... 550 190 740 Servicing fees received............ 1 86 185 93 161 526 Other cash flows received on 1 retained interests................ 4 9 705 252 80 1,032 1 Other cash flows included all cash flows from interest-only strip receivables, excluding servicing fees.
At 31 December 2005, the sensitivity of the current fair value of the interest-only strip receivables to an immediate 10 per cent and 20 per cent unfavourable change in assumptions are presented in the table below.
These sensitivities are based on assumptions used to value interest-only strip receivables at 31 December 2005.
As the figures indicate, the change in fair value based on a 10 per cent variation in assumptions cannot necessarily be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear.
Also, in this table, the effect of a variation in a particular assumption on the fair value of the residual cash flow is calculated independently from any change in another assumption.
In reality, changes in one factor may contribute to changes in another for example, increases in market interest rates may result in lower prepayments which might magnify or counteract the sensitivities.
Furthermore, the estimated fair values as disclosed should not be considered indicative of future earnings on these assets.
Static pool credit losses are calculated by summing actual and projected future credit losses and dividing them by the original balance of each pool of asset.
Due to the short-term revolving nature of MasterCard, Visa, and 401 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Notes on the Financial Statements continued private label loan balances, the weighted average percentage of static pool credit losses is not considered to be materially different from the weighted average charge-off assumptions used in determining the fair value of interest-only strip receivables in the table above.
At 31 December 2005, static pool credit losses for vehicle finance loans securitised in 2003 were estimated to be 10.6 per cent and for vehicle finance loans securitised in 2002 were estimated to be 14.8 per cent 2004: 14.7 per cent.
Activities of other North American subsidiaries Through its subsidiaries, HSBC Markets USA Inc. and HSBC Bank USA, N. A. HSBC began acquiring residential mortgage loans from unrelated third parties in the middle of 2005 with the intention to sell these loans to securitisation trusts.
HSBC received US$540 million in proceeds from the initial securitisation transaction under this program and recorded a gain on sale of US$6 million.
HSBC does not service these loans and at 31 December 2005 held no residual interests resulting from this transaction.
In addition, HSBC securitised the net interest margin NIM associated with the initial securitisation.
A NIM securitisation is a structured finance transaction backed by the residual cash flows from an Asset Backed Security ABS deal.
NIMs are collateralised by the excess spread left after absorbing the realised losses and satisfying the required  levels in the underlying ABS deals.
HSBC received US$39 million in proceeds from this securitisation transaction and recorded no gain on sale.
HSBC holds a residual interest of US$14 million resulting from the NIM securitisation.
The residual interest is recorded in trading assets and is measured at fair value in accordance with SFAS 115.
As the NIM securitisation occurred late in 2005, HSBC received no income from the residual interest in 2005.
48 Approval of accounts These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 6 March 2006.
