The above outstanding balances arose from the ordinary course of business and are on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third party counterparties, except for US$3,296 million of loans and advances to subsidiaries and US$3,235 million of loans from HSBC undertakings to HSBC Holdings made at an agreement of zero per cent interest.
44 Events after the balance sheet date A fourth interim dividend of US$3,513 million US$0.31 per share 2004: US$3,007 million, US$0.27 per share was declared after 31 December 2005 and is subject to approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
On 6 March 2006, the Board of Directors authorised the financial statements for issue.
45 UK and Hong Kong accounting requirements The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs.
There would be no material differences had they been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Accounting Standards.
46 Transition to IFRSs HSBCs reported financial position, financial performance and cash flows have been affected by the transition from UK GAAP to IFRSs.
The transition has not affected HSBCs net cash flows or the underlying economics of its businesses, though the periods in which certain income and expenses are recognised have changed.
HSBC has taken advantage of the section in IFRS 1 which exempts companies from presenting comparative information in accordance with IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4.
The transitional adjustments are therefore set out in two stages: those relating to the restatement of 2004 comparative financial information Notes a to d below, and those taking effect from 1 January 2005 Notes e and f. a Transitional exemptions adopted by HSBC in addition to the exemption from restating comparative information in accordance with IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4. b Key impact analysis of IFRSs on the financial position at 31 December 2004, and financial performance and cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2004.
The most significant effects of the transition to IFRSs on 332 HSBCs restated comparative financial information are the result of differences in the accounting treatment applied to goodwill, retirement benefits and dividends.
c Reconciliation to IFRSs of the financial performance for the year ended 31 December 2004 and the financial position at 31 December 2004 and 1 January 2004 previously reported under UK GAAP.
d Analysis of the effect of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements on the financial performance for the year ended 31 December 2004 and the financial position at 31 December 2004 and 1 January 2004.
This note describes the adjustments made to reformat HSBCs income statements and balance sheets from UK GAAP to IFRSs.
e Key impact analysis of adopting IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 on the opening balance sheet at 1 January 2005. f Reconciliation of consolidated balance sheets at 31 December 2004 and 1 January 2005. g Principal accounting policies applicable to the 2004 comparative information which differ from those applied in 2005. h Effect of the transition to IFRSs on the financial position of HSBC Holdings.
This note includes the reconciliation of HSBC Holdings UK GAAP balance sheets at 31 December 2004 and 1 January 2004 to its IFRSs balance sheets and an analysis of the effect of adopting IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 on the opening balance sheet at 1 January 2005.
Notes c and d bridge financial statement disclosures under UK GAAP and IFRSs and are designed to assist the reader in understanding the nature and quantum of differences between them.
Notes a to d are extracts from HSBCs publication, 2004 IFRSs Comparative Financial Information, which was issued on 5 July 2005.
Notes e and f are taken from HSBCs Interim Report 2005.
Note g contains extracts from HSBCs Annual Report and Accounts 2004. a Transitional exemptions In addition to exempting companies from the requirement to restate comparatives for IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4, IFRS 1 grants certain exemptions from the full requirements of IFRSs to companies adopting IFRSs for the first time.
HSBC has taken the following exemptions in making the transition to IFRSs: i Business combinations HSBC has elected not to restate business combinations that took place prior to the 1 January 2004 transition date.
Had this exemption not been taken the main effects would have been to recognise additional deferred tax on fair value adjustments made at the date of acquisition and to recognise additional intangible assets with consequential adjustments to the carrying value of goodwill and retained earnings as at 1 January 2004.
The recognition of additional intangibles with a definite life would have given rise to an increased amortisation charge, which would have reduced IFRSs net income prospectively with a consequential reduction in total shareholders equity.
The restatement of goodwill would have had no impact on prospective net income unless it was written off following a subsequent impairment review.
ii Fair value or revaluation as deemed cost HSBC has elected to measure individual items of property at fair value at the date of transition to IFRSs and use that fair value as deemed cost at that date.
If HSBC had continued to revalue properties, this would have led to increases in tangible fixed assets at 31 December 2004 and 31 December 2005 with corresponding increases in other reserves net of deferred tax liabilities.
There would have been a slightly increased depreciation charge and reduced net income going forward.
If HSBC had reverted to original cost as the basis for carrying properties, net income under IFRSs would have been higher for 2004 and 2005 owing to a reduced depreciation charge, and shareholders equity would have been lower.
333 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Notes on the Financial Statements continued iii Employee benefits HSBC has elected to apply the employee benefits exemption and has, therefore, recognised in equity at 1 January 2004 all cumulative actuarial gains and losses on post-employment benefit plans.
Recognising certain actuarial gains and losses under the alternative corridor approach would have reduced liabilities and increased retained earnings at 1 January 2004.
HSBC has not elected to adopt a corridor approach going forward under IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
iv Cumulative exchange differences HSBC has set the cumulative exchange differences for all foreign operations to zero at 1 January 2004.
The alternative, a retrospective application of IAS 21 The Effect of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates, would have resulted in a re-allocation between retained earnings and other reserves at 1 January 2004 but would have had no impact on total equity.
v Share-based payment transactions HSBC has elected to undertake full retrospective application of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
The alternative, excluding share options issued before 7 November 2002 as permitted by IFRS 1, would have slightly reduced administrative expenses and increased net income in 2004.
There would have been no impact on retained earnings or total equity.
b Key impact analysis of IFRSs on the financial results and position at 31 December 2004 HSBC previously prepared its primary financial statements under UK GAAP, which differs in certain significant respects from IFRSs.
For a summary of the principal accounting policies followed for preparing the 2004 comparative information, see Note g below.
The carrying value of goodwill existing at 31 December 2003 under UK GAAP was carried forward under IFRS 1 from 1 January 2004, subject to two adjustments.
Firstly, previously unrecognised intangible assets that met the recognition criteria under IAS 38 Intangible Assets in the financial statements of the acquired entity were reported separately to the extent that they were included in goodwill at the date of transition.
Secondly, only adjustments to provisional fair values and hence goodwill made during the first 12 months after an acquisition were reflected in comparative information.
Accordingly, goodwill adjustments made after the first 12 months in accordance with UK GAAP were reversed.
IFRS 3 requires that goodwill should not be amortised but should be tested for impairment on transition and at least annually at the cash-generating unit level by applying a fair-value-based test as described in IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
There was no impairment on transition or in any subsequent periods.
Under IFRS 3, the acquirer only recognises adjustments to the provisional fair values of assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination within 12 months of the acquisition date, with a corresponding adjustment to goodwill.
These adjustments are made as if they had occurred at the acquisition date, that is the comparative information is adjusted.
Adjustments to the fair value of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities after the 12 month period are recognised only to correct errors or adjust deferred tax assets that could not be recognised separately at the date of acquisition.
When such a deferred tax asset is recognised, goodwill is reduced to the amount that would have been recognised if the deferred tax asset had been recognised at the date of the acquisition.
Any reduction in goodwill is recognised as an expense, offsetting the benefit taken in the tax charge for the recognition of the deferred tax asset.
The effect of ceasing goodwill amortisation on operating profit for the year ended 31 December 2004 was US$1,814 million.
The impact of other goodwill adjustments, essentially to adjust fair values on acquisition to the basis noted above, was a reduction in operating profit for the year ended 31 December 2004 of US$96 million.
US$241 million of goodwill was reclassified to other intangible assets on 1 January 2004.
335 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Notes on the Financial Statements continued IAS 19 Employee Benefits IAS 19 IAS 19 requires pension fund assets to be assessed at fair value and liabilities on the basis of current actuarial assumptions using the projected unit credit method.
As permitted by an amendment to IAS 19, HSBC elected to recognise all actuarial gains and losses directly in retained earnings.
The change in accounting resulted in the recognition of a pension obligation of US$6,475 million at 31 December 2004 1 January 2004: US$4,982 million which, after adjustment for prospective tax relief and the portion of the deficit attributable to minority interests, reduced total shareholders equity by US$4,470 million 1 January 2004: US$3,529 million.
The effect of the transition to IAS 19 on 2004s operating profit was to increase the charge for pension costs by US$170 million.
US$242 million of this related to an increase in pension liability from termination benefits attributable to members of the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme arising from major staff reduction programme in the second half of the year.
Under UK GAAP, the impact of the staff reduction programme on the pension scheme was spread over the remaining average life of the scheme.
IAS 10 Events after the Balance Sheet Date IAS 10 Under IAS 10, equity dividends declared after the balance sheet date are not included as a liability at the balance sheet date.
Accordingly, HSBC reversed the liability for proposed dividends at each balance sheet date.
This had the effect of increasing shareholders equity at 31 December 2004 and 1 January 2004 by US$2,996 million and US$2,627 million respectively.
IAS 17 Leases IAS 17 IAS 17 requires that unearned income on finance leases be taken to income at a rate calculated to give a constant rate of return on the net investment in the lease, with no account taken in calculating the net investment of the tax effects of the lease.
In general, this leads to a deferral of finance income compared with the pattern of recognition under UK GAAP, where income is recognised at a constant rate of return on the net cash investment in the lease including the effect of tax.
Under UK GAAP, assets leased out under operating leases are depreciated over their useful lives so that, for each asset, rentals less depreciation are recognised at a constant periodic rate of return on the net cash invested in that asset.
Under IFRSs, operating leased assets are depreciated to ensure that in each period the depreciation charge is at least equal to that which would have arisen on a straight-line basis.
The effect of both finance and operating leases on shareholders equity at 31 December 2004 was a decrease of US$503 million 1 January 2004: decrease of US$402 million.
The effect of the transition to IAS 17 was to decrease operating profit by US$90 million for the year ended 31 December 2004.
Under UK GAAP, leasehold land was separately identified within the valuation of land and buildings.
For HSBC, this principally arose in Hong Kong, where all land is held by way of leases.
IFRSs require leasehold land to be treated as held under an operating lease unless title is expected to pass to the lessee at the end of the lease.
No revaluation is permitted in respect of such owner-occupied operating lease assets.
Leasehold land valued at US$1,345 million at 1 January 2004 was reclassified as operating lease assets on the date of transition to IFRSs.
This resulted in the reversal of previously recognised revaluation surpluses amounting to US$622 million, and the inclusion of prepaid rentals of US$723 million in Other assets at 1 January 2004.
IFRS 2 Share-based Payment IFRS 2 IFRS 2 requires companies to adopt a fair-value-based method of accounting for share-based compensation plans which takes into account vesting conditions related to market performance, for example total shareholder return.
Under this method, compensation cost is measured at the date of grant based on the assessed value of the award and is recognised over the service period, which is usually the vesting period.
In respect of other vesting conditions, an estimate of the number of options that will lapse before they vest is made at grant date and adjustments to this estimate are made over the service period.
Accordingly, the expense recognised reflects, over time, the actual number of lapsed options for non-market performance-related conditions.
There is no exemption under IFRS 2 for Save-As-You-Earn schemes, as existed under UK GAAP.
336 HSBC undertook full retrospective application of IFRS 2, as permitted by IFRS 1, and recognised the fair value of share-based payments to employees whilst reversing charges made in respect of employee share schemes under UK GAAP.
This resulted in a US$152 million reduction in operating profit for the year ended 31 December 2004.
At 31 December 2003, HSBC had a liability under UK GAAP in relation to certain sign-on and performance bonuses which were to be settled by the purchase of HSBC shares and had been expensed as incurred.
Under IFRS 2, these transactions are treated as equity-settled share-based payments and are expensed over the vesting period.
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements IAS 27 IAS 27 requires that all entities be consolidated on a line-by-line basis.
HSBCs insurance subsidiaries third party assets, which were historically presented in aggregate on a single line Long-term assurance assets attributable to policyholders within Other assets on the consolidated balance sheet have, therefore, been included in appropriate headings for such assets.
In addition, funds under management have been consolidated where the requirements of IAS 27 and Standard Interpretations Committee 12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities SIC12 are met.
SIC12 also requires consolidation of special purpose entities SPEs when the substance of the relationship between the SPE and the reporting entity indicates that the SPE is controlled by that entity.
This resulted in certain of the Groups securitisation and conduit vehicles that were off-balance-sheet under UK GAAP being consolidated under IFRSs.
The effect of consolidating funds under management and SPEs under IAS 27 and SIC12 was to gross up the 31 December 2004 balance sheet by US$4,796 million 1 January 2004: US$5,075 million with a minor impact on total shareholders equity.
Attributable profit for the year ended 31 December 2004 increased by US$12 million as a result.
Under IAS 27, investments in subsidiaries may be carried at cost or accounted for in accordance with IAS 39 in an entitys separate financial statements.
HSBC Holdings took the option of carrying its investments in subsidiaries at cost instead of at net asset value, as under its previous UK GAAP policy.
The effect of this change was a decrease in total shareholders equity by US$39,217 million at 31 December 2004 US$27,412 million at 1 January 2004.
IAS 12 Income Taxes IAS 12 Under IAS 12, deferred tax liabilities and assets are generally recognised in respect of all temporary differences except where expressly prohibited by the Standard, subject to an assessment of the recoverability of deferred tax assets.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
In addition, unremitted earnings from subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures operating in lower tax jurisdictions result in a deferred tax liability unless the reporting entity is able to control the timing of the reversal of temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Under IFRSs, fair value adjustments made on acquisition are tax-effected in order to present profitability on a tax-equalised basis: under UK GAAP no tax adjustments were required for items which did not affect the amount of tax payable or recoverable.
The IFRSs balance sheet at 31 December 2004 included an increase in the deferred tax asset of US$587 million 1 January 2004: US$813 million and a decrease in the deferred tax liability of US$631 million 1 January 2004: US$563 million.
The net change in deferred tax mainly arose from prospective tax relief on pension deficits, tax-effecting fair value adjustments on acquisitions, previously unrecognised tax-effecting of historical property revaluations, and an adjustment to the grossing up of the value of in-force long-term assurance business.
The effect on the IFRSs income statement is shown in Note 47.
The main item, in the other column, is the deferred tax of US$274 million for the year ended 31 December 2004 on the fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries.
337 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Notes on the Financial Statements continued IAS 38 Intangible Assets IAS 38 IAS 38 states that intangible assets should be recognised separately from goodwill in a business combination when they arise from contractual or other legal rights, or if separable, i. e. capable of being separated or divided from the acquired entity and sold, transferred, licensed, rented, or exchanged in combination with a related contract, asset or liability.
The effect of this is that certain intangible assets such as trademarks and customer relationships included as part of goodwill under UK GAAP are separately measured and recognised on business combinations.
When intangible assets have an indefinite useful life, or are not yet ready for use, they are tested for impairment annually.
This impairment test may be performed at any time during an annual period, provided it is performed at the same time every year.
An intangible asset recognised during the current period is tested before the end of the current annual period.
Presentationally, intangible assets recognised under UK GAAP, including mortgage servicing rights and the value of in-force long-term assurance business, were reclassified from Other assets to Intangible assets.
This resulted in additional intangible assets at 31 December 2004 of US$308 million relating to mortgage servicing rights and US$1,874 million relating to the value of in-force long-term assurance business 1 January 2004: US$506 million and US$1,579 million respectively.
IAS 38 further requires costs incurred in the development phase of a project to produce application software for internal use to be capitalised and amortised over the softwares estimated useful life if the software will generate probable future economic benefits, and such costs can be measured reliably.
Under UK GAAP these costs were expensed as incurred.
This policy change resulted in US$760 million of software being capitalised as at 31 December 2004 1 January 2004: US$718 million.
The capitalisation of software previously expensed in full resulted in a decrease in general and administrative expenses and an increase in depreciation and amortisation charged in respect of capitalised software in the form of regular, ongoing amortisation and any impairment charge.
The net effect was that expenses were US$25 million lower for the year ended 31 December 2004.
IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment IAS 16 HSBC adopted the cost model by which assets are carried at cost less any accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
HSBC also applied the exemption in IFRS 1 which allows fair value at the date of transition to IFRSs to be used as deemed cost for the value of property in most circumstances.
No adjustments were required to restate property, plant and equipment in the IFRSs opening balance sheet at 1 January 2004 as a result of changing from a policy of revaluation to one of depreciated cost.
However, US$639 million was transferred out of the revaluation reserve to retained earnings on 1 January 2004.
Leasehold land valued at US$1,345 million at 1 January 2004, which was previously capitalised under UK GAAP but did not meet the criteria for capitalisation as finance leased assets under IFRSs, was reclassified as operating leased assets.
See the paragraph entitled IAS 17 above for further explanation of these adjustments.
IAS 40 Investment Property IAS 40 Investment properties are measured at fair value with changes therein recognised in the income statement.
This resulted in a US$98 million increase in operating profit for the year ended 31 December 2004.
IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates IAS 21 IAS 21 states that in consolidated financial statements, all exchange differences arising on the retranslation of foreign operations with functional currencies which differ from the entitys reporting currency, should be recognised as a separate component of equity in the foreign exchange reserve.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the exchange differences previously recognised in reserves in relation to that operation are recognised in the income statement for the period.
As permitted by IFRS 1, HSBC deemed cumulative translation differences at 1 January 2004 to be zero.
338 IAS 7 Cash Flow Statements IAS 7 HSBC previously prepared its cash flow statement in accordance with UK Financial Reporting Standard 1 Revised 1996 Cash Flow Statements FRS 1 Revised.
Its objectives and principles are similar to those set out in IAS 7.
FRS 1 Revised defines cash as cash and balances at central banks and advances to banks payable on demand.
IAS 7 in addition includes Cash equivalents, which are defined as short-term highly liquid investments, held for the purpose of meeting short-term cash commitments rather than investment, that are both convertible to known amounts of cash, and so near their maturity that they present an insignificant risk of changes in value.
The inclusion of cash equivalents in the definition of reported cash flows had no significant effect on the reported net cash flows for the period to 31 December 2004.
Under UK GAAP, HSBC presented its cash flows by operating activities: dividends received from associates: returns on investments and servicing of finance: taxation: capital expenditure and financial investments: acquisitions and disposals: equity dividends paid: and financing.
Under IFRSs, only three categories are required.
These are operating: investing: and financing.
Amendments to transitional balances The transitional balances reported in the 2005 Accounts have been amended in certain respects compared to the balances published in the 2004 IFRSs Comparative Financial Information Document.
Following further interpretative guidance on IFRSs, leases of land greater than 500 years are now accounted for as operating leases, having previously been reported in the 2004 IFRSs Comparative Financial Information Document as finance leases.
This resulted in a reduction of fixed assets and an increase in lease rental prepayments of US$366 million as at 1 January 2004 compared to the comparatives published in the above document.
The foreign exchange and share-based payment reserves have been grouped with Other reserves rather than retained earnings.
This resulted in an increase in other reserves of US$3,955 million and a corresponding reduction in reported retained earnings as at 1 January 2004 compared to the balances reported in the comparative information document.
27 44 71 Net insurance claims............... 4,565 70 4,635 Amounts written off fixed asset investments................. 4 2 2 Operating profit.................... 16,514 170 1,814 96 25 152 90 10 37 87 88 17,871 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Notes on the Financial Statements continued 344 Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2004 continued Goodwill IFRSs amortisation Other Shareexcept Retirement under UK goodwill Software based ConsolidIAS 32 39 UK GAAP benefits GAAP adjustments capitalisation payments Leases Insurance ation Property Other and IFRS 4 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Operating profit.................... 16,514 170 1,814 96 25 152 90 10 37 87 88 17,871 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures................ 29242 18 48 268 Gains on disposal of fixed assets and investments......... 802 8 111 2 804 Profit on ordinary activities before tax........................... 17,608 170 1,818 102 25 152 90 1 37 106 138 18,943 Tax on profit on ordinary activities.............................. 4,507 39 57 21 12 27 1 6 11 250 4,685 Profit on ordinary activities after tax.............................. 13,101 131 1,818 45 4 164 63 31 95 388 14,258 Minority interests.................... 1,261 3 19 35 22 1,340 Profit attributable to shareholders....................... 11,840 134 1,818 45 4 164 63 12 60 410 12,918 345 Consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2004 Adjustments to conform HSBCs UK GAAP balance sheet at 31 December 2004 to its accounting policies under IFRSs are set out below: IFRSs Shareexcept Retirement Software based ConsolidIAS 32 39 UK GAAP benefits Dividends Goodwill capitalisation payments Leases Insurance ation Property Other and IFRS 4 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m ASSETS Cash and balances at central banks................................... 9,872 72 9,944 Items in the course of collection from other banks.
6,352 14 6,338 Treasury bills and other eligible bills......................... 30,284 197 30,481 Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness.
6,628 6,628 Treasury bills and other eligible bills......................... 20,391 84 20,475 Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness.
For a summary of the principal accounting policies followed in preparing the 2004 comparative information, see Note 2 and g below.
Trading derivatives were reported at market value in the balance sheet, with movements in market value recognised immediately in the income statement.
Non-trading derivatives, which were transacted for hedging and risk management purposes, were accounted for on an accruals basis, equivalent to the assets, liabilities or net positions being hedged.
IAS 39 requires that all derivatives be recognised at fair value in the balance sheet as assets or liabilities.
The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and its resulting designation, as described in Note 2 k. The application of IAS 39 as at 1 January 2005 resulted in the recognition of additional assets of US$346 million and additional liabilities of US$49 million relating to the fair values of derivatives at that date which were previously accounted for on an accruals basis.
In addition, the carrying values of non-derivative financial instruments subject to fair value hedges were adjusted by US$743 million at 1 January 2005 in relation to the fair value attributable to the hedged risks of those financial instruments.
The combined impact on shareholders equity at 1 January 2005 was US$59 million, of which US$395 million was taken to the cash flow hedging reserve.
Investment securities Debt securities and equity shares intended to be held on a continuing basis under UK GAAP were disclosed as investment securities and included in the balance sheet at cost less provision for any permanent diminution in value.
Other debt securities and equity shares held for trading purposes were included in the balance sheet at market value.
Under IAS 39, all investment securities debt securities and equity shares are classified and disclosed within one of the following three categories: held-to-maturity: available-for-sale: or at fair value through profit or loss.
355 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Notes on the Financial Statements continued Securities previously classified as held-for-trading purposes remain so classified.
The accounting treatment for each of the categories above under IFRSs is described in Note 2.
On transition to IFRSs, under IAS 39 HSBC classified most of its investment securities as available-for-sale.
This resulted in an available-for-sale reserve of US$1,917 million, representing the cumulative unrealised gain on these securities being recorded within shareholders equity.
Following the adoption of IAS 39 in its separate financial statements, HSBC Holdings has reclassified its investments in debt securities from Investments debt securities of HSBC undertakings to available-for-sale financial investments.
This has resulted in the recording within total shareholders equity of an available-for-sale reserve of US$464 million, representing the cumulative unrealised gains on these securities.
Fair value option Under IAS 39, financial assets and financial liabilities may be designated at fair value if they meet the criteria set out in the Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: The Fair Value Option the Amendment.
HSBC has designated at fair value at 1 January 2005 certain loans and advances to customers, financial investments, and some own debt issued which satisfied the criteria in the Amendment.
This had the impact of reducing shareholders equity by US$812 million on 1 January 2005.
HSBC Holdings has designated at fair value at 1 January 2005 certain subordinated liabilities which satisfied the criteria in the Amendment.
This had the effect of reducing total shareholders equity by US$317 million at 1 January 2005.
Fee income Fee income was previously accounted for in the period when receivable, except when charged to cover the costs of a continuing service to, or risk borne for, the customer, or was interest in nature.
In these cases, income was recognised on an appropriate basis over the relevant period.
Under IFRSs, the main change in accounting relates to loan fee income and incremental directly attributable loan origination costs, which are amortised to the income statement over the expected life of the loan as part of the effective interest calculation.
This resulted in a reduction in shareholders equity of US$151 million, as previously recognised fees after deduction of directly attributable costs were reversed and spread forward over the residual term of the financial instrument.
Non-equity minority interest reclassification Preference shares issued by subsidiaries were previously classified in the balance sheet as non-equity minority interests with preference share dividends recorded as non-equity minority interests in the income statement.
Under IAS 32, preference shares are generally classified in the balance sheet as liabilities.
This had the impact of increasing liabilities by US$10,218 million at 1 January 2005.
Loan impairment Under HSBCs UK GAAP accounting policies, loans in the consumer finance business were written off to the income statement in accordance with a predetermined overdue status.
Under IAS 39, impairment losses are recognised when an entity has objective evidence that an advance is impaired.
Impairment under IAS 39 is calculated on a discounted future cash flow basis and does not result in an impaired loan being fully written off until it is considered that cash flows will no longer be received.
This change in the recognition basis of cash recoveries has resulted in an asset of US$364 million at 1 January 2005 being the reinstatement of that portion of the previously written off loans that, based on historical evidence, is recoverable.
Insurance Under UK GAAP, a value was placed on HSBCs interest in long-term assurance business, including a valuation of the discounted future earnings expected to emerge from business currently in force.
From 1 January 2005, only long-term contracts meeting the definition of an insurance contract under IFRS 4 continue to be accounted for in this way.
Long-term contracts not transferring significant insurance risk, referred to as investment contracts, are accounted for as financial instruments.
Accordingly, it is no longer possible to include for such contracts an asset representing the value of the discounted future earnings expected to emerge from business 356 currently in force, leading to a reduction in equity of US$192 million.
Income on such contracts will be recognised in later periods, as investment management fees and incremental directly attributable costs are spread over the period in which the services are provided.
Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities Under UK GAAP the netting of asset and liability balances in the balance sheet is only allowed when there is the ability to insist on net settlement.
Under IAS 32 the offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities is only allowed when there is a legally enforceable right to offset and the intention to settle net.
The change from an ability to insist on net settlement to an intention to settle on a net basis is not in line with market practice in a number of areas.
As a result of this change certain financial instruments have been presented gross on the balance sheet.
This has increased total assets by US$87,772 million.
Acceptances were accounted for on a net basis under UK GAAP.
There was no grossing up of the amount to be paid and the amount receivable from the originator, and thus no balance appeared on the balance sheet for these products.
Under IAS 39 it is necessary to recognise a liability for acceptances from the date of acceptance.
A corresponding asset due from the originator is also recognised.
This resulted in a gross up of the balance sheet of US$7,214 million, with no impact on shareholders equity.
The following accounting policies only apply to the 2004 comparatives: Interest income and expense Interest income was recognised in the income statement as it accrued, except in the case of impaired loans and advances.
Premiums and discounts on the issue of debt and fair value adjustments to debt arising on acquisitions were amortised to interest payable so as to give a constant rate over the life of the debt.
When debt was callable, either by HSBC or the holder, the premium or discount was amortised over the period to the earliest call date.
Non interest income Fee income Fee income was accounted for as follows: income earned on the execution of a significant act was recognised as revenue when the act had been completed for example, commission and fees arising from negotiating, or participating in the negotiation of, a transaction for a third party, such as the arrangement for the acquisition of shares or other securities : income earned from the provision of services was recognised as revenue as the services were provided for example, asset management, portfolio and other management advisory and service fees : and income which was interest in nature was recognised on an appropriate basis over the relevant period and recorded in Interest income.
Trading income Trading income comprised gains and losses from the mark-to-market movements of trading instruments.
Interest income, expense and dividends were presented in Interest income, Interest expense and Dividend income respectively.
Loans and advances to banks and customers Loans and advances to banks and customers included loans and advances originated by HSBC which were not intended to be sold in the short term and had not been classified as held for trading.
Loans and advances were recognised when cash was advanced to borrowers.
They were measured at amortised cost less provisions for bad and doubtful loans and advances.
Impaired loans and advances It was HSBCs policy that each operating company would make provisions for impaired loans and advances when there was objective evidence of impairment.
There were two basic types of provision, specific and general, each of which was considered in terms of the charge and the amount outstanding.
Specific provisions Specific provisions represented the quantification of actual and inherent losses from homogeneous portfolios of assets and individually identified accounts.
Specific provisions were deducted from loans and advances in the balance sheet.
The majority of specific provisions were determined on a portfolio basis.
Portfolios When homogeneous groups of assets were reviewed on a portfolio basis, two alternative methods were used to calculate specific provisions: When appropriate empirical evidence was available, HSBC utilised roll rate methodology a statistical analysis of historical trends of the probability of default and amount of consequential loss, assessed at the 361 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Notes on the Financial Statements continued end of each time period for which payments were overdue, other historical data and an evaluation of current economic conditions to calculate an appropriate level of specific provision based on inherent loss.
Additionally, in certain highly developed markets, sophisticated models taking into account behavioural and account management trends such as bankruptcy and rescheduling statistics were used.
Roll rates were regularly benchmarked against actual outcomes to ensure they remained appropriate.
In other cases, when information was insufficient or not sufficiently reliable to adopt a roll rate methodology, HSBC adopted a formulaic approach which allocated progressively higher loss rates in line with the period of time for which a customers loan was overdue.
Individually assessed accounts Specific provisions on individually assessed accounts were determined by an evaluation of the exposures on a case-by-case basis.
This procedure was applied to all accounts that did not qualify for, or were not subject to, a portfolio-based approach.
In determining such provisions on individually assessed accounts, the following factors were considered: HSBCs aggregate exposure to the customer including contingent liabilities : the viability of the customers business model and its capability to trade successfully out of financial difficulties and generate sufficient cash flow to service its debt obligations: the likely dividend available on liquidation or bankruptcy: the extent of other creditors commitments ranking ahead of, or pari passu with, HSBC and the likelihood of other creditors continuing to support the company: the complexity of determining the aggregate amount and ranking of all creditor claims and the extent to which legal and insurance uncertainties were evident: the amount and timing of expected receipts and recoveries: the realisable value of security or other credit mitigants and likelihood of successful repossession: the deduction of any costs involved in recovery of amounts outstanding: the ability of the borrower to obtain, and make payments in, the currency of the loan if not in local currency: and when available, the secondary market price of the debt.
Releases of individually calculated specific provisions were recognised whenever HSBC had reasonable evidence that the established estimate of loss had reduced.
Cross-border exposures Specific provisions were established in respect of cross-border exposures to countries assessed by management to be vulnerable to foreign currency payment restrictions.
This assessment included analysis of both economic and political factors.
Provisions were applied to all qualifying exposures within these countries unless these exposures: were performing, trade-related and of less than one years maturity: were mitigated by acceptable security cover which was, other than in exceptional cases, held outside the country concerned: or were represented by securities held for trading purposes for which a liquid and active market existed, and which were marked to market daily.
General provisions General provisions augmented specific provisions and provided cover for loans that were impaired at the balance sheet date but which would not be individually identified as such until some time in the future.
HSBC required operating companies to maintain a general provision, which was determined after taking into account: 362 historical loss experience in portfolios of similar risk characteristics for example, by industry sector, loan grade or product : the estimated period between impairment occurring and the loss being identified and evidenced by the establishment of a specific provision against that loss: and managements judgement as to whether the then economic and credit conditions were such that the actual level of inherent loss was likely to be greater or less than that suggested by historical experience.
The estimated period between a loss occurring and its identification as evidenced by the establishment of a specific provision for that loss was determined by local management for each identified portfolio.
Loans on which interest was being suspended and non-accrual loans Loans were designated as non-performing as soon as management had doubts as to the ultimate collectibility of principal or interest or when contractual payments of principal or interest were 90 days overdue.
When a loan was designated as non-performing, interest was not normally credited to the income statement and either interest accruals ceased non-accrual loans or interest was credited to an interest suspense account in the balance sheet which was netted against the relevant loan suspended interest.
Within portfolios of low value, high volume, homogeneous loans, interest was normally suspended on facilities 90 days or more overdue.
In certain operating subsidiaries, interest income on credit cards may have continued to be included in earnings after the account was 90 days overdue, provided that a suitable provision was raised against the portion of accrued interest which was considered to be irrecoverable.
The designation of a loan as non-performing and the suspension of interest could be deferred for up to 12 months in either of the following situations: cash collateral was held covering the total of principal and interest due and the right of offset was legally sound: or the value of any net realisable tangible security was considered more than sufficient to cover the full repayment of all principal and interest due, and credit approval had been given to the rolling-up or capitalisation of interest payments.
In certain subsidiaries, principally those in the UK and Hong Kong, interest on non-performing loans was charged to the customers account provided that there was a realistic prospect of interest being paid at some future date.
However, the interest was not credited to the income statement but to an interest suspense account in the balance sheet, which was netted against the relevant loan.
In other subsidiaries, when the probability of receiving interest payments was remote, interest was no longer accrued and any suspended interest balance was written off.
On receipt of cash other than from the realisation of security, the overall risk was re-evaluated and, if appropriate, suspended or non-accrual interest was recovered and taken to the income statement.
A specific provision of the same amount as the interest receipt was then raised against the principal balance.
Amounts received from the realisation of security were applied to the repayment of outstanding indebtedness, with any surplus used first to recover any specific provisions and then suspended interest.
Loans were not reclassified as accruing until interest and principal payments were up to date and future payments were reasonably assured.
Loan write-offs Loans and the related provisions were normally written off, either partially or in full, when there was no realistic prospect of recovery of these amounts and when the proceeds from realising security had been received.
Trading assets and trading liabilities Treasury bills, debt securities, equity shares and short positions in securities were included in Trading assets or Trading liabilities in the balance sheet at market value.
Changes in the market value of these assets and liabilities were recognised in the income statement as Trading income as they arose.
For liquid portfolios, market values were determined by reference to independently sourced mid-market prices.
In certain less liquid 363 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Notes on the Financial Statements continued portfolios, securities were valued by reference to bid or offer prices as appropriate.
When independent prices were not available, market values were estimated by discounting the expected future cash flows using a suitable interest rate adjusted for the counterpartys credit risk.
Interest income, interest expense and dividends arising from trading assets and liabilities were aggregated in the income statement with similar amounts arising from other activities.
Financial investments Treasury bills, debt securities and equity shares intended to be held on a continuing basis were classified as financial investments and included in the balance sheet at cost less provision for any permanent diminution in value.
When dated financial investments had been purchased at a premium or discount, those premiums and discounts were amortised through the income statement over the period from the date of purchase to the date of maturity so as to give a constant rate of return.
If the maturity was at the borrowers option within a specified range of years, the earliest maturity was adopted.
Those financial investments were included in the balance sheet at cost adjusted for the amortisation of premiums and discounts arising on acquisition.
The amortisation of premiums and discounts was included in Interest income.
Any gain or loss on realisation of these securities was recognised in Gains less losses from financial investments in the income statement as it arose.
Derivatives Derivative financial instruments comprised futures, forward, swap and option transactions undertaken by HSBC in the foreign exchange, interest rate, equity, credit derivative, and commodity markets that were held offbalance sheet.
Netting was applied where a legal right of offset existed.
Accounting for these instruments was dependent upon whether the transactions were undertaken for trading or non-trading purposes.
Trading transactions Trading transactions included transactions undertaken for market-making, to service customers needs and for proprietary purposes, as well as any related hedges.
Transactions undertaken for trading purposes were marked to market and the net present value of any gain or loss arising was recognised in the income statement as Trading income, after appropriate deferrals for unearned credit margins and future servicing costs.
Derivative trading transactions were valued by reference to an independent liquid price when this was available.
For those transactions with no readily available quoted prices, predominantly over the counter transactions, market values were determined by reference to independently sourced rates, using valuation models.
If market observable data was not available, the entire initial change in fair value indicated by the valuation model, but based on unobservable inputs, was not recognised immediately in the income statement.
This amount was held back and recognised over the life of the transaction where appropriate, or released to the income statement when the inputs became observable, or when the transaction matured or was closed out.
Adjustments were made for illiquid positions where appropriate.
Assets, including gains, resulting from derivative exchange rate, interest rate, equities, credit derivative and commodity contracts which were marked to market were included in Derivatives on the assets side of the balance sheet.
Liabilities, including losses, resulting from such contracts, were included in Derivatives on the liabilities side of the balance sheet.
Non-trading transactions Non-trading transactions, which were those undertaken for hedging purposes as part of HSBCs risk management strategy against cash flows, assets, liabilities or positions, were measured on an accrual basis.
Nontrading transactions included qualifying hedges and positions that synthetically altered the characteristics of specified financial instruments.
Non-trading transactions were accounted for on an equivalent basis to the underlying assets, liabilities or net positions.
Any gain or loss arising was recognised on the same basis as that arising from the related assets, liabilities or positions.
364 To qualify as a hedge, a derivative was required effectively to reduce the price, foreign exchange or interest rate risk of the asset, liability or anticipated transaction to which it was linked and be capable of designation as a hedge at inception of the derivative contract.
Accordingly, changes in the market value of the derivative were required to be highly correlated with changes in the market value of the underlying hedged item at inception of the hedge and over the life of the hedge contract.
If these criteria were met, the derivative was accounted for on the same basis as the underlying hedged item.
Derivatives used for hedging purposes included swaps, forwards and futures.
Interest rate swaps were also used to alter synthetically the interest rate characteristics of financial instruments.
In order to qualify for synthetic alteration, a derivative instrument had to be linked to specific individual, or pools of similar, assets or liabilities by the notional principal and interest rate risks of the associated instruments, and had to achieve a result that was consistent with defined risk management objectives.
If these criteria were met, accruals-based accounting was applied, that is income or expense was recognised and accrued to the next settlement date in accordance with the contractual terms of the agreement.
Any gain or loss arising on the termination of a qualifying derivative was deferred and amortised to earnings over the original life of the terminated contract.
When the underlying asset, liability or position was sold or terminated, the qualifying derivative was immediately marked to market and any gain or loss arising was taken to the income statement.
Insurance contracts The value of in-force long-term assurance business was determined by discounting future earnings expected to emerge from business then in force, using appropriate assumptions in assessing factors such as recent experience and general economic conditions.
Movements in the value of in-force long-term assurance business were included in Other operating income on a gross of tax basis.
Debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities Debt securities in issue were initially measured at fair value, which was the consideration received net of transaction costs incurred.
Premiums and discounts on the issue of debt and fair value adjustments to debt arising on acquisitions were amortised to interest payable so as to give a constant interest rate over the life of the debt.
Where debt was callable, either by HSBC or the holder, the premium or discount was amortised over the period to the earliest call date.
