Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Principal accounting policies a Basis of preparation The Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
The Groups principal accounting policies are unchanged compared with the year ended 31 March 2004. b Basis of consolidation The Groups consolidated Financial Statements comprise the Financial Statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Details of the Companys principal subsidiaries are given on pages 78 and 79.
Unless stated otherwise, business combinations are accounted for by the acquisition method of accounting whereby the Groups results include the results of acquired or disposed businesses from the ef fective date of acquisition or disposal.
In the Groups consolidated Financial Statements, joint ventures and associates are accounted for under the equity method whereby the Groups profit and loss account includes its share of their profits and losses and the Groups balance sheet includes its share of their net assets.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its own profit and loss account.
c Turnover Turnover comprises commission and brokerage income derived from securities broking, derivatives and money broking, ener gy broking, electronic broking and infor mation services and is recognised as earned.
Securities broking comprises voice broking and is mainly transacted on a matched principal basis.
T o represent the substance of matched principal services provided by the Group, where it acts as principal for the simultaneous purchase and sale of securities to third parties, commission income represents the dif ferential between the consideration received on the sale of the security and its purchase price.
Derivatives and money broking and ener gy broking comprise voice broking and are mainly transacted on an agency basis.
For agency trades turnover is stated net of rebates and discounts, value added tax and other sales taxes.
Electronic broking includes the broking of securities and derivatives and money broking products on electronic platfor ms.
Turnover recognition for these products is in accordance with the treatment for the equivalent voice broked products.
Turnover from infor mation services represents fees received from the sale of financial infor mation to third parties.
This is stated net of value added tax and other sales taxes.
d Government grants Revenue grants received are credited to the profit and loss account in the same period as the related expenditure is char ged.
e Goodwill Goodwill arises upon the acquisition of subsidiary and associated undertakings and joint ventures and represents the cost of the acquisition in excess of the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets acquired.
Fair values are deter mined based upon an assessment of the value of the individual assets and liabilities acquired, including reference to market prices where relevant.
For acquisitions prior to 1 January 1998, goodwill was written of f directly to reserves.
The transitional arrangements of FRS 10 Goodwill and intangible assets allow this goodwill to remain eliminated.
Goodwill previously char ged directly against reserves prior to FRS 10 is reflected in the profit and loss account when calculating the profit or loss on the subsequent disposal or ter mination of acquired businesses.
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 1998, goodwill is capitalised and amortised to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over its useful economic life.
The useful economic life of the goodwill is deter mined at the time of the acquisition and is subsequently reviewed at the end of each reporting period by considering the nature of the business acquired, the economic environment in which it operates and the period of time over which the Group expects to derive value from the purchase of the business.
Amortisation periods for all significant acquisitions are given in note 12.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings is shown within intangible fixed assets.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of joint ventures and associates is included within their carrying value.
