Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Principal accounting policies a Basis of preparation The Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
The Groups principal accounting policies are unchanged compared with the year ended 31 March 2004. b Basis of consolidation The Groups consolidated Financial Statements comprise the Financial Statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Details of the Companys principal subsidiaries are given on pages 78 and 79.
Unless stated otherwise, business combinations are accounted for by the acquisition method of accounting whereby the Groups results include the results of acquired or disposed businesses from the ef fective date of acquisition or disposal.
In the Groups consolidated Financial Statements, joint ventures and associates are accounted for under the equity method whereby the Groups profit and loss account includes its share of their profits and losses and the Groups balance sheet includes its share of their net assets.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its own profit and loss account.
c Turnover Turnover comprises commission and brokerage income derived from securities broking, derivatives and money broking, ener gy broking, electronic broking and infor mation services and is recognised as earned.
Securities broking comprises voice broking and is mainly transacted on a matched principal basis.
T o represent the substance of matched principal services provided by the Group, where it acts as principal for the simultaneous purchase and sale of securities to third parties, commission income represents the dif ferential between the consideration received on the sale of the security and its purchase price.
Derivatives and money broking and ener gy broking comprise voice broking and are mainly transacted on an agency basis.
For agency trades turnover is stated net of rebates and discounts, value added tax and other sales taxes.
Electronic broking includes the broking of securities and derivatives and money broking products on electronic platfor ms.
Turnover recognition for these products is in accordance with the treatment for the equivalent voice broked products.
Turnover from infor mation services represents fees received from the sale of financial infor mation to third parties.
This is stated net of value added tax and other sales taxes.
d Government grants Revenue grants received are credited to the profit and loss account in the same period as the related expenditure is char ged.
e Goodwill Goodwill arises upon the acquisition of subsidiary and associated undertakings and joint ventures and represents the cost of the acquisition in excess of the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets acquired.
Fair values are deter mined based upon an assessment of the value of the individual assets and liabilities acquired, including reference to market prices where relevant.
For acquisitions prior to 1 January 1998, goodwill was written of f directly to reserves.
The transitional arrangements of FRS 10 Goodwill and intangible assets allow this goodwill to remain eliminated.
Goodwill previously char ged directly against reserves prior to FRS 10 is reflected in the profit and loss account when calculating the profit or loss on the subsequent disposal or ter mination of acquired businesses.
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 1998, goodwill is capitalised and amortised to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over its useful economic life.
The useful economic life of the goodwill is deter mined at the time of the acquisition and is subsequently reviewed at the end of each reporting period by considering the nature of the business acquired, the economic environment in which it operates and the period of time over which the Group expects to derive value from the purchase of the business.
Amortisation periods for all significant acquisitions are given in note 12.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings is shown within intangible fixed assets.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of joint ventures and associates is included within their carrying value.
48 ICAP plc Annual Report 2005 1 Principal accounting policies continued f Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at historical cost less provision for any impair ment in their values and are depreciated on a straight line basis over their expected useful economic lives as follows: Short leasehold property Period of lease Furniture, fixtures and equipment3 5 years Motor vehicles3 4 years Software development3 5 years The Group reviews its depreciation rates regularly to take account of any changes in circumstances.
These rates are deter mined upon consideration of factors such as the expected rate of technological development and anticipated usage levels.
Depreciation is char ged against assets from the date at which the Group begins to derive economic benefit from the asset.
When a leasehold property becomes surplus to the Groups foreseeable business requirements, provision is made on a discounted basis for the expected future net cost of the property.
g Leased assets Assets financed by leasing arrangements which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group finance leases are capitalised in the consolidated balance sheet.
Lease repayments comprise both a capital element and a finance element.
The capital element of the leasing commitment is shown as an obligation to the lessor in the balance sheet and the finance element is char ged to the profit and loss account on a constant periodic rate of change basis.
Operating lease rentals are char ged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the lease ter m. h Fixed asset investments i Subsidiary undertakings An undertaking is regarded as a subsidiary undertaking if the Group has control over its operating and financial policies.
In the Companys Financial Statements, investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at historical cost less provision for any impair ment in their values.
ii Associates The consolidated Financial Statements include investments in associated undertakings under the equity method of accounting.
An associated undertaking is an entity in which the Group has a participating interest and, in the opinion of the directors, can exercise significant influence, but not control, over its operating and financial policies.
The profit and loss account includes the Groups share of the operating profit or loss, exceptional items, interest income or expense and attributable taxation of those entities.
The balance sheet shows the Groups share of the net assets or liabilities of those entities, together with loans advanced and attributable goodwill.
A participating interest exists where an investment is held on a long-ter m basis for the purpose of securing a contribution to the Groups activities.
Significant influence will generally exist where the Group holds more than 20% and less than 50% of the shareholders voting rights.
iii Joint ventures The consolidated Financial Statements include investments in joint ventures under the gross equity method of accounting.
A joint venture is an entity in which the Group has a long-ter m interest and exercises joint control.
Under the gross equity method, a for m of the equity method of accounting, the Groups share of the aggregate gross assets and liabilities underlying the investment in the joint venture is included in the balance sheet and the Groups share of the turnover of the joint venture is disclosed in the profit and loss account.
iv Other investments Other fixed asset investments, comprise equity shareholdings and other interests.
They are stated at historical cost less provision for any impair ment in their values.
Dividend income is recognised upon receipt and interest when receivable.
i Impairment of fixed assets and goodwill Fixed assets and goodwill are subject to an impair ment review in accordance with FRS 11 Impair ment of fixed assets and goodwill if there are events or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying value of the fixed asset or goodwill may not be fully recoverable.
The impair ment review comprises a comparison of the net book value of the fixed asset or goodwill with its recoverable amount the higher of net realisable value and value in use.
Net realisable value represents the amount at which the asset could be sold.
Value in use is calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows obtainable as a result of the assets continued use, including those resulting from its ultimate disposal, at a market based discount rate on a pre-tax basis.
The carrying value of fixed assets and goodwill are written down by the amount of any impair ment and this loss is recognised in the profit and loss account in the year in which it occurs.
If the occurrence of an external event gives rise to a reversal of an impair ment loss, the reversal is recognised in the profit and loss account as well as by increasing the carrying amount of the fixed asset or goodwill only up to the amount that it would have been had the original impair ment not occurred.
For the purpose of conducting impair ment reviews, income generating units are identified as groups of assets, liabilities and associated goodwill that generate income that is lar gely independent of other income streams.
The assets and liabilities include those directly involved in generating the income and an appropriate proportion of those used to generate more than one income stream.
Annual Report 2005 ICAP plc 49 Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Principal accounting policies continued j Matched principal business Certain Group companies are involved as principal in the purchase and simultaneous commitment to sell securities between third parties.
Such trades are complete only when both sides of the deal are settled, and so the Group is exposed to risk in the event that one side of the transaction remains unmatched.
Substantially all the transactions settle within a short period of time and the settlement risk is considered to be minimal.
In order to reflect the substance of these transactions, the amounts due to and payable by counterparties in respect of matched principal business expected to settle in the nor mal course of trading are of fset and the net amount is included in trade debtors.
For infor mation purposes, the gross amounts are disclosed in note 16.
Outstanding transactions which have gone beyond settlement date initially unsettled transactions and where neither side of the transaction has settled are shown gross and are included in debtors and creditors in notes 16 and 18.
Transactions where one side has settled but the other remains outstanding unmatched transactions are also shown as the gross amount on the balance sheet in either trade debtors or trade creditors with the corresponding amount included as a cash movement.
k Stock lending transactions Certain Group companies are involved in collateralised stock lending transactions as an inter mediary between counterparties.
Although the legal for m of such transactions is that the securities broker acts as principal on both sides of the transaction, the substance of the transaction is that the Group companies involved act as inter mediaries and assume minimal risk.
Accordingly, for those transactions where there is a legally enforceable right of of fset the net amount is included in debtors or creditors.
For infor mation purposes, the gross amounts are disclosed in notes 16 and 18. l Client money The Group holds money on behalf of clients in accordance with the client money rules of the FSA.
Since the Group is not beneficially entitled to these amounts, they are excluded from the Group balance sheet along with the corresponding liabilities to clients.
The amounts held on behalf of clients at the balance sheet date are included in note 32. m Current asset investments Current asset investments are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The net realisable value for the listed investment is based upon the readily ascertainable market price.
n Pension costs Defined contribution pension costs are char ged to the profit and loss account represent employers contributions payable in respect of the year.
Defined benefit pension costs are accounted for in accordance with SSAP 24 Accounting for pension costs and are char ged to the profit and loss account on a systematic basis over the service lives of the eligible employees in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries.
Variations from regular cost are spread over the expected remaining service lives of current employees.
T o the extent that such costs do not equate with cash contributions, a provision or prepayment is recognised in the balance sheet.
Certain assumptions and estimates are made in order to value the Groups defined benefit pension schemes and these are disclosed in note 27. o Employee share ownership trusts Investments in own shares held in connection with the Groups employee share schemes are deducted from shareholders funds in accordance with UITF 38 Employeee share ownership trusts, until such time as they vest unconditionally to the participating employees.
For share option schemes without Inland Revenue approval, any excess of the fair value of the shares over the exercise price of the options granted over them is amortised to the profit and loss account over the period of service in respect of which the participating employees are awarded the options in accordance with UITF 17 Employee share schemes.
For share options schemes with Inland Revenue approval, the excess of the fair value of the shares over the exercise price of the options granted over them is written of f to reserves as per mitted by the exemption in UITF 17.
The fair value of shares purchased to satisfy the bonus award options to the executive directors in respect of the BSMP is char ged to the profit and loss account in the year of grant.
The fair value of matching options awarded to the executive directors is amortised to the profit and loss account over three years from the date of grant.
p Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised as an asset or a liability if transactions have occurred at the balance sheet date which give rise to a right to pay less taxation or an obligation to pay more taxation in the future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing dif ferences can be deducted or where they can be of fset against deferred tax liabilities.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities which are recognised are not discounted.
No provision is made in respect of any further taxation liability that would arise on the distribution of retained earnings of overseas subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates.
50 ICAP plc Annual Report 2005 1 Principal accounting policies continued q Foreign currencies At entity level, transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the exchange rate ruling on the date the transaction is recorded.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange dif ferences are taken to the profit and loss account.
On consolidation, the results of overseas businesses are translated into sterling at the average exchange rate for the year and their assets and liabilities are translated into sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange dif ferences arising on translating the net assets and liabilities of overseas businesses and, to the extent per mitted by SSAP 20 Foreign currency translation, exchange dif ferences on foreign currency borrowings taken out to hedge investments in overseas businesses are taken directly to reserves.
In the cash flow statement, cash flows denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the average exchange rate for the year.
r Financial instruments The Group uses various financial instruments as hedges to reduce exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
These include forward foreign exchange contracts, currency options, cross currency and interest rate swaps.
Forward foreign exchange contracts are the principal instruments used to hedge foreign exchange exposures both on assets and liabilities recognised in the Financial Statements and forecast receipts and payments denominated in foreign currencies.
Gains and losses on forward foreign exchange contracts are of fset against the exchange dif ferences arising on the hedged assets and liabilities.
Where a contract is a hedge against future transactions, gains and losses on the contract remain unrecognised or deferred until the transaction is recognised in the Financial Statements.
Where the hedged asset or liability ceases to exist, or is not expected to occur in the future, the hedging instrument is closed out and any profit or loss is recognised in the profit and loss account immediately as part of operating profit.
Underlying principal amounts of forward foreign exchange contracts and unrecognised gains and losses of financial instruments used for hedging purposes outstanding at 31 March 2005 are disclosed in note 22. s Debt provisioning Provisions are made for specific debts when it is considered that the credit-worthiness of the debtor has deteriorated such that the recovery of all or part of a debt is in serious doubt.
A provision is made in respect of potential losses which are judged to be present in debtor balances at the balance sheet date, but which will not be identified as such until some time in the future.
The level of provision is based upon the previous experience of such losses in the Group and is reviewed on a periodic basis.
The appropriateness of the provision is periodically assessed against any actual losses that have arisen.
All provisions are recorded within operating expenses in the profit and loss account.
