Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the seventh Annual General Meeting of ICAP plc the Company will be held at the of fices of ICAP plc, 2 Broadgate, London EC2M 7UR at 10.30am on Wednesday, 13 July 2005.
Ordinary business 1 T o receive the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2005, together with the reports of the directors and auditors thereon.
2 T o declare a final dividend of 6.4 pence per ordinary share, payable to the shareholders on the register at 29 July 2005.
3 T o re-elect Charles Gregson as a director of the Company.
4 T o re-elect Stephen McDer mott as a director of the Company.
5 T o re-elect William Nabarro as a director of the Company.
6 T o re-elect Jim Pettigrew as a director of the Company.
7 T o re-appoint  LLP as auditors of the Company.
8 T o authorise the directors to set the remuneration of the auditors of the Company.
Special business T o consider, and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions of which numbers 9, 10,13 and 14 will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and numbers 11, 12 and 15 will be proposed as Special Resolutions: Ordinary Resolutions 9 T o approve the Remuneration Committee Report.
10 That the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 and in accordance with Article 9.2 of the Companys Articles of Association, to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of section 80 2 of the said Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 20,184,335, this authority to expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting for 2006 of the passing of this resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry make any of fer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of any of fer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
This authority shall be in substitution for and shall replace any existing authority pursuant to the said section 80, to the extent not utilised at the date this resolution is passed.
Special Resolutions 11 That in accordance with Article 9.3 of the Companys Articles of Association as in force at the date of this notice, the directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to section 95 1 of the Act to: a subject to the passing of resolution 10 above, allot equity securities as defined in section 94 2 of the Companies Act 1985 for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 10 above as if section 89 1 of the said Act did not apply to any such allotment: b sell relevant shares as defined in section 94 5 of the said Act in the Company if, immediately before the sale such shares are held by the Company as treasury shares as defined in section 162A 3 of the said Act treasury shares for cash as defined in section 162D 2 of the said Act, as if section 89 1 of the said Act did not apply to any such sale: provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities and the sale of treasury shares: i in connection with a rights issue or any other pre-emptive of fer in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity securities are proportionate as nearly as practicable to the respective number of ordinary shares held by such holders but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or desirable in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems arising in, or pursuant to, the laws of any territory, or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange in any territory: and ii otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,027,532: and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting for 2006 of the passing of this resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry make an of fer or enter into any agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted or treasury shares to be sold, after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities or sell treasury shares in pursuance of such of fer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
12 That the Company be and is hereby generally authorised pursuant to and in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of such Act of any of its own ordinary shares in such manner as the directors may from time to time deter mine subject to the following: a the maximum number of shares in the Company hereby authorised to be acquired is 60,553,006: 82 ICAP plc Annual Report 2005 b the minimum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for each such ordinary share is an amount equal to the nominal value of each share: c the maximum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for any share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the shares in the Company taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which such ordinary share is contracted to be purchased: d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting: and e the Company may enter into a contract for the purchase of shares before the expiry of this authority which would or might be completed wholly or partly after its expiry.
Ordinary Resolutions 13 That the Company and its directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make Donations to EU political or ganisations and to incur EU political expenditure up to an aggregate amount of 100,000 for the Group, this authority to expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2006.
For the purposes of this resolution, Donation, EU political or ganisations and EU political expenditure have the meanings ascribed in section 347A of the Companies Act 1985 and Group shall have the meaning ascribed thereto by the Companys Articles of Association.
14 That Garban-Intercapital Management Services Limited and its directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make Donations to EU political or ganisations and to incur EU political expenditure up to an aggregate amount of 100,000 for the Group, this authority to expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2006.
Special Resolution 15 That the Companys Articles of Association be amended by deleting the current Article 164 and replacing it with the following: Indemnity 164.1 Subject to the provisions of the Statutes but without prejudice to any indemnity to which the person concerned may otherwise be entitled, every person who is or was at any time a director or other of ficer of the Company excluding the Auditors may be indemnified out of the assets of the Company against all costs, char ges, expenses, losses or liabilities together Liabilities which he may sustain or incur in or about the actual or purported execution and or dischar ge of the duties of his of fice and or the exercise or purported exercise of his powers or discretions and or otherwise in relation thereto or in connection therewith, including without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing any Liability suffered or incurred by him in disputing defending investigating or providing evidence in connection with any actual or threatened or alleged claims, demands, investigations, or proceedings, whether civil or criminal, or in connection with any application under section 144 3 or 4 or section 727 of the Act.
The Company may also, subject to the provisions of the Statutes, provide funds to any Director or other of ficer, excluding the Auditors, or do anything to enable a director or other of ficer to avoid incurring expenditure of the nature described in section 337A of the Act.
164.2 Subject to the provisions of the Statutes but without prejudice to any indemnity to which the person concerned may otherwise be entitled, every person who is or was at any time an Auditor may be indemnified out of the assets of the Company against all costs, char ges, expenses, losses or liabilities together Liabilities which he may sustain or incur in or about the actual or purported execution and or dischar ge of the duties of his of fice and or the exercise or purported exercise of his powers or discretions and or otherwise in relation thereto or in connection therewith, including without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing any Liability suffered or incurred by him in disputing defending investigating or providing evidence in connection with any actual or threatened or alleged claims, demands, investigations, or proceedings, whether civil or criminal, or in connection with any application under section 727 of the Act.
And that Article 109.3 be amended as follows: Delete and at end of para e and after para f add g the giving of any indemnity pursuant to Article 164: and h the provision of funds to any Director or the doing of anything to enable a Director to avoid incurring expenditure in each case as per mitted by section 337A of the Act.
By order of the board Helen Broomfield Registered Office Group Company Secretary 2 Broadgate 23 May 2005 London EC2M 7UR Annual Report 2005 ICAP plc 83 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notes 1 Information on non-executive directors being re-elected Charles Gregson will retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting in accordance with Article 114 of the Articles of Association and is seeking re-election.
He is a member of the Nomination Committee.
Mr Gregson has made a valuable contribution to the board since his appointment in 1998 both as executive Chair man and as non-executive Chair man since August 2001.
His considerable experience in the financial services industry and as an executive director of United Business Media plc and as non-executive Deputy Chair man of Provident Financial plc enable him to contribute significantly to the board.
Following evaluation led by the Senior Independent Director, the board has satisfied itself that Mr Gregson continues to demonstrate his commitment to the Company and will continue to make an ef fective and valuable contribution.
The board recommends that shareholders vote in favour of resolution 3.
William Nabarro will retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting in accordance with Article 114 of the Articles of Association and is seeking re-election.
He is Chair man of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Mr Nabarro has been a non-executive director for six years since the demer ger of Garban from United.
His extensive experience in corporate finance is a considerable benefit to board discussion.
As Chair man of the Nomination Committee he was responsible for the recruitment of Duncan Goldie-Morrison and Jim McNulty, both non-executive directors, appointed in 2003 and 2004 respectively which has refreshed the composition of the board and has led the process in recruiting Mark Yallop.
Following careful consideration and evaluation, the board has satisfied itself that Mr Nabarro continues to demonstrate his commitment to the Company and will continue to make an ef fective and valuable contribution.
The board recommends that shareholders vote in favour of resolution 5.
Further infor mation concerning the directors to be re-elected may be found on pages 22 and 23 of the Annual Report.
2 Transfer If you have sold or transferred all of your shares, you should pass this documentation and the for m of proxy to the person through whom the sale or transfer was ef fected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
3 Appointment of proxies A member entitled to attend and vote may appoint a proxy or proxies who need not be a member of the Company to attend and on a poll, to vote instead of him or her.
For ms of proxy must be returned so as to be received by the Companys registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6LU, not later than 10.30am on Monday, 11 July 2005, being 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
Appointing a proxy will not preclude a member attending and voting in person at the meeting.
Appointment of proxies electronically Shareholders who would prefer to register the appointment of their proxy electronically via the internet can do so through Lloyds TSB Registrars website at www.
co. uk using their personal Authentication Reference Number this is a series of 24 numbers printed under the shareholders name on the for m. Alternatively, shareholders who have already registered with Lloyds TSB Registrars online portfolio service Shareview can appoint their proxy electronically by logging on to their portfolio at www.
co. uk and clicking on Company Meetings.
Full details and instructions on these electronic proxy facilities are given on these websites.
Appointment of proxies through CREST Alternatively, if you are a member of CREST, you may register the appointment of a proxy by using the CREST electronic proxy appointment service.
Further details are contained below.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies for the Annual General Meeting, including any adjournment s thereof, through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCOs specifications and must contain the infor mation required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it relates to the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given for a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by Lloyds TSB Registrars ID 7RA01 by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments specified above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as deter mined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which Lloyds TSB Registrars are able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
84 ICAP plc Annual Report 2005 CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Nor mal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat a CREST Proxy Instruction as invalid in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
4 Right to attend and vote Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that in order to have the right to attend and vote at the meeting and also for the purpose of calculating how many votes a person entitled to attend and vote may cast a person must be entered on the register of holders of the ordinary shares of the Company by not later than 6pm on 11 July 2005 being two business days before the time fixed for the meeting.
Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in deter mining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting and the number of shares on which they can vote.
5 Documents on display The Register of directors interests in the share capital and debentures of the Company, together with copies of the service agreements under which directors of the Company are employed, copies of the ter ms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors and the Companys Articles of Association, are available for inspection at all times at the Companys registered of fice during nor mal business hours from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting, and will be available for inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to, and during the meeting.
