27 Financial assets and liabilities Treasury and hedging policies The groups financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise borrowings in the form of bank debt, private placements and publically rated notes, and various items, such as accrued interest, debtors, trade creditors etc, that arise directly from its operations.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the groups operations.
The group also enters into derivatives transactions principally interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency contracts.
The purpose of such transactions is to manage the interest rate and currency risks arising from the groups operations and its sources of finance.
The main risks arising from the groups financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk.
It is the groups policy to match foreign currency loans and related net interest income, wherever possible, through either borrowing in the same foreign currency or entering into equivalent forward foreign exchange contracts.
The groups policy is to manage its exposure to interest rate movements present or future, actual or contingent so as to protect its net interest income over time.
It is, and has been throughout the period under review, the groups policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below.
These policies have remained unchanged since the companys flotation in 1994.
Interests and currency exposures Interest rate risk The groups main activity is to provide mezzanine finance to its borrowers at both fixed and floating rates in any freely traded currency.
The group finances its operations by a mixture of retained profits, bank borrowings, private placements and floating rate notes.
The group borrows in currencies at both fixed and floating rates of interest and then uses interest rate swaps in order to match the interest profile of its assets and to manage the groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
In order to protect its future interest income as its fixed rate assets mature, the company has entered into a series of interest rate swaps under which it receives a fixed rate.
The average rate achieved on these swaps is 5.45%.
As a result, the group does not have material financial exposure to interest rate movements.
Liquidity risk As regards liquidity, the groups policy has throughout the year been to ensure continuity of funding.
Due to the long term nature of the groups assets, the groups policy is that, wherever possible, the majority of its debt should mature in more than five years.
This has been achieved by using a combination of private placements with maturities of between five and ten years, by short term borrowings under a five year extendible, multi-currency bank facility and other further syndicated and bilateral facilities and by issuing floating rate notes with a maturity date in 2021.
The maturity profile of the groups financial liabilities, other than short term creditors, is shown in the net debt analysis in note 22 and the analysis of creditors over one year is shown in note 19.
Since the year end the company has refinanced all its existing revolving credit bank facilities of 372m with a new five year revolving multi-currency credit facility of 845m.
Foreign currency risk Over one half of the portfolio of the group is in currencies other than sterling which gives rise to revenues in those currencies.
In order to protect the groups sterling balance sheet from the movements in these currencies and the sterling exchange rate, the group finances its loans and investments by means of borrowings in the respective currency and by way of forward foreign exchange contracts.
As a result, the group does not have material financial exposure to foreign exchange gains or losses.
47 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Notes to the Accounts Continued 27 Financial assets and liabilities continued After taking into account the various interest rate swaps entered into by the group to hedge its future income, the interest rate profile of the groups financial assets and liabilities at 31 January 2005 was as follows: Financial assets Financial liabilities Floating rate Fixed rate Floating rate Fixed rate financial financial financial financial Total assets assets Total liabilities liabilities Currency m m m m m m Sterling 301.8 249.8 52.0 36.6 117.9 81.3 Euro 794.4 684.9 109.5 731.7 739.8 8.1 Other currencies 94.7 70.1 24.6 92.3 178.0 270.3 1,190.9 1,004.8 186.1 787.4 443.9 343.5 The groups financial assets consist of long term loans and investments.
These usually have a term of between five and ten years, but are often prepaid prior to their contractual maturity.
The interest rate for each fixed rate asset is set at the commencement of the loan.
Interest rates for both floating rate assets and liabilities are based upon LIBOR plus the relevant margin.
Hedging Interest rates As stated in the groups accounting policies, the amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate swaps are recognised as adjustments to interest expense over the period of the contracts.
In respect of the year to 31 January 2005, interest expense was reduced by 8.4m 2004 11.2m in order to reflect the amounts receivable for interest rate swaps.
These interest rate swaps are primarily used to hedge the groups private placements, thereby lowering the higher costs of borrowing fixed rate US Dollars by converting into floating rate Sterling and Euros.
Currency exposure Forward foreign exchange contracts denominated in foreign currencies at the year end are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at that date, or where appropriate, at the rate of exchange in related forward contracts.
Any gain or loss arising from a change of exchange rates subsequent to the dates of the transactions is included as an exchange gain or loss in the profit and loss account and is included as part of interest expense.
However, because the group does not have any material financial currency exposure, this reduction in interest expense was offset by a corresponding increase arising from the translation of other monetary assets and liabilities, primarily its loans and investments, its bank borrowings, its private placements and its floating rate notes.
48 Intermediate Capital Group PLC 27 Financial assets and liabilities continued Fair value of financial assets and liabilities The carrying amounts and the estimated fair value of the groups outstanding financial instruments is set out below: Restated Restated 2005 2005 2004 2004 Net carrying Estimated Net carrying Estimated amount fair value amount fair value m m m m Long-term loans and investments 1,182.8 1,328.8 1,093.9 1,175.9 Loans held for syndication 40.9 40.9 27.5 27.5 Cash at bank 55.6 55.6 38.6 38.6 Borrowings: Bank debt including overdraft 179.5 179.5 323.3 323.3 Floating rate notes 265.3 265.3 201.3 201.3 Private placements 347.7 347.7 231.3 231.3 Derivatives and financial instruments: Interest rate 1.6 7.9 1.4 Foreign currency 55.1 54.9 41.9 41.9 The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values shown below: Long term loans and investments The estimate of the fair value of long term loans and investments is based on their cost, which is shown in the balance sheet at 1,182.8m, and the value of its warrants and listed equity shares.
The fair value of the loans and investments does not include an adjustment to reflect interest rate movements since the date of the transaction as such loans are not readily marketable.
The valuation of the warrants is based on the borrowers current proforma earnings multiplied by the appropriate price earnings ratio.
Loans held for syndication, cash at bank and bank debt The carrying values of these instruments approximate to their fair values because of their short term nature.
Private placements These consist mainly of fixed rate US Dollar liabilities whose market value may be different to the carrying value.
However, because the associated interest rate swaps provide a complete hedge to, and are considered part of, the transaction, any difference between the carrying value and fair value of the private placement will be offset by the difference on the associated interest rate swaps.
Foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swaps Foreign exchange contracts are revalued into sterling and shown in the balance sheet at their revalued amount.
The fair value will therefore equate to the carrying value.
The fair value of interest rate swaps with the exception of those swaps taken out as part of the private placement was estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present values using appropriate market interest rates prevailing at the year end.
Floating rate notes The carrying value of these instruments approximate to their cost as all such notes are floating rate and there has been no material movement in margins on such instruments since their issue in June 2003 and May 2004.
