Notes to the Accounts for the year ended 31 January 2005 1 Accounting policies The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Law and Accounting Standards.
The particular accounting policies adopted are described below.
a Basis of accounting The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain assets as described below.
b Basis of consolidation The group financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the company and its principal subsidiaries.
c Revenues and expenses Underwriting fees and other arrangement fees are included in the profit and loss account on the date at which they are receivable.
Amounts receivable at the repayment of a loan which exceed the original cost are taken to the profit and loss account over the life of the loan.
Such amounts, less tax, are considered to be nondistributable until such time as repayment occurs.
Recurring fees, interest income, interest expense and overheads are accounted for on the accruals basis.
Gains or losses arising on the early termination of financial instruments used for hedging purposes are shown as part of interest expense.
Dividend income is accounted for in the year in which the income is received.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal of a loan or an investment is recognised at the date of disposal.
Any gain or loss is stated net of associated selling expenses.
d Tangible fixed assets Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight line basis over its expected useful life, as follows: Furniture and Equipment 20%-33% per annum: Leasehold Premises Over the term of the lease.
e Loans and investments Loans and investments, including warrants, are shown at cost less provisions plus the accrual of amounts receivable at the repayment of a loan which exceed the original cost.
The specific provisioning policy of the company is to make a provision against any loan or investment as and when the directors consider that the carrying value is wholly or partially impaired.
f Loans and investments held as current assets Listed investments which are held as current assets, due to their impending sale, are held at their market value, with any resulting gain or loss being taken to the profit and loss account and included within capital gains.
Loans and non-listed investments held as current assets are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
g Taxation Corporation tax is provided on the taxable profits of the company at the current rate.
h Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is provided in full on timing differences which represent an asset or a liability at the balance sheet date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in financial statements.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation of fixed assets where there is no commitment to sell the asset, or on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries where there is no commitment to remit these earnings.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
i Pension costs It is the policy of the company to provide for pension liabilities by payments to insurance companies or to individuals for employees private pension plans.
The amount charged to the profit and loss account represents a percentage of the current payroll cost paid to defined contribution schemes.
