Notes to the Accounts Continued 24 Financial commitments At 31 January 2005, the group estimated that it had no contractual obligations to provide further funding apart from an obligation to lend a further 3.6m on an existing investment 2004 nil.
The group regularly enters into forward contracts for financial instruments which are used to hedge interest rate and foreign exchange risk in the normal course of business.
ICG has committed to fund the purchase of a book of leveraged loans amounting to 450m 310m, currently financed by a third party, which will be transferred to current and future fund management clients.
ICG is liable for the first 5% of losses on the portfolio prior to the portfolio being purchased by funds.
25 Related party transactions The company takes advantage of the exemption under FRS8 and does not report transactions or balances between group entities that have been eliminated on consolidation.
There are no other related party transactions requiring disclosure under FRS8.
26 Principal subsidiary companies Percentage Country of Principal Subsidiary owned incorporation Registered in Principal activity Intermediate Capital Investments Limited 100% United Kingdom England and Wales Investment company.
Intermediate Capital Managers Limited 100% United Kingdom England and Wales Advisory company.
Intermediate Finance PLC 100% United Kingdom England and Wales Provider of mezzanine finance.
Mezzanine Finance Guernsey Limited 100% Guernsey Guernsey Holding company for loans and investments.
Intermediate Capital Asia Limited 100% Hong Kong Hong Kong Provider of mezzanine finance to companies in the Asia Pacific Region.
Intermediate Capital Group SAS 100% France France Advisory company.
Intermediate Capital Group Espana SL 100% Spain Spain Advisory company.
Intermediate Capital Nordic AB 100% Sweden Sweden Advisory company.
Intermediate Capital Limited 100% United Kingdom England and Wales General Partner in a number of Partnerships.
Intermediate Capital GP Limited 100% Jersey Jersey General Partner in a number of Partnerships.
Intermediate Capital GP 2003 Limited 100% Jersey Jersey General Partner in a number of Partnerships.
These companies do not have co-terminous year ends.
