Definitions Term Definition Adjusted shareholders funds Refer to calculation on page 28.
Client assets under administration Includes third party assets under administration managed by the Private Client, Asset Management and Property businesses.
Core loans and advances Loans and advances to customers less cash and short-term funds included therein.
Cost to income ratio Administrative expenses and depreciation divided by operating income.
Dividend cover Earnings per ordinary share before exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill divided by dividends per ordinary share.
Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders before Refer to pages 186 to 187. exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill Earnings per ordinary share before Refer to pages 186 to 187. exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill Effective tax rate Tax on profit on ordinary activities divided by operating profit.
Equity shareholders' funds Total shareholders' funds excluding perpetual preference shares.
Headline earnings Refer to page 187.
Headline earnings per share Refer to page 187.
Market capitalisation Total number of shares in issue including Investec Limited and Investec plc multiplied by the closing share price of Investec plc on the London Stock Exchange.
Net interest income Interest receivable less interest payable.
Operating income All income less interest payable and fees and commission payable.
Operating profit Operating income less administrative expenses, provisions for bad and doubtful debts and depreciation of tangible fixed assets.
This amount is before exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill.
Operating profit: SA Operating profit earned in South Africa, Mauritius and Botswana.
Operating profit: Non-SA Operating profit earned in UK and Europe, USA, Israel and Australia.
232 Term Definition Recurring annuity income as a percentage of operating income Net interest income, a portion of the return on shareholder's funds in the long-term assurance business and annuity commissions receivable net of commissions payable expressed as a percentage of operating income.
Tangible net asset value per share As per calculation on page 31.
Return on average equity shareholders' funds Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders before exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill expressed as a percentage of average equity shareholders' funds.
Return on average adjusted equity shareholders' funds Refer to calculation on page 28.
Return on average adjusted tangible shareholders funds Refer to calculation on page 28.
Staff compensation to operating income ratio All employee related costs expressed as a percentage of operating income.
Total capital resources Includes shareholders' funds, subordinated liabilities and minority interests.
Weighted number of ordinary shares in issue The number of ordinary shares in issue at the beginning of the year, increased by shares issued during the year, weighted on a time basis for the period during which they have participated in the income of the group less treasury shares.
Refer to calculation on page 186.
Contact details Investec Australia, Brisbane Hong Kong Level 3 320 Adelaide Street 2106 - 2108 Jardine House Brisbane QLD 4000 Australia 1 Connaught Place Telephone 61 7 3229 5566 Central Hong Kong Facsimile 61 7 3229 5533 Telephone 852 2861 6888 e-mail australia@investec.
com Australia, Melbourne Ireland, Dublin Level 20 101 Collins Street Melbourne VIC 3000 Australia The Harcourt Building Telephone 61 3 8660 1000 Harcourt Street Dublin 2 Facsimile 61 3 8660 1010 Telephone 353 1 421 0000 e-mail australia@investec.
au Facsimile 353 1 421 0500 e-mail info@investec.
ie Australia, Sydney Mauritius, Port Louis Level 31 The Chifley Tower 2 Chifley Square 7th Floor Harbour Front Building Sydney NSW 2000 Australia President John Kennedy Street Telephone 61 2 9236 000 Port Louis Mauritius Facsimile 61 2 9236 0001 Telephone 230 207 4000 e-mail australia@investec.
au Facsimile 230 207 4003 e-mail info@investec.
com Botswana, Gaborone Namibia, Windhoek 10 Kgale Mews Lot 115 Millenium Office Park 5 Conradie Street Gaborone Botswana Windhoek Namibia Telephone 09 267 318 0112 Telephone 264 61 249 626 Facsimile 09 267 318 0114 Facsimile 264 61 249 689 e-mail info@investec.
com Channel Islands, St Helier South Africa, Cape Town PO Box 344 36 Hans Strijdom Avenue Foreshore 5 Castle Street St Helier Cape Town 8001 Jersey JE4 8UZ PO Box 1826 Cape Town 8000 Telephone 44 1534 512 512 Telephone 27 21 416 1000 Facsimile 44 1534 512 513 Facsimile 27 21 416 1001 e-mail enquiries@investectrust.
com South Africa, Durban Channel Islands, St Peter Port 325 Smith Street Durban 4001 PO Box 188 La Vieille Cour PO Box 3912 Durban 4000 St Peter Port Guernsey GY1 3LP Telephone 27 31 365 4700 Telephone 44 1481 723 506 Facsimile 27 31 365 4800 Facsimile 44 1481 741 147 e-mail enquiries@investec-ci.
com 234 South Africa, East London Switzerland, Zurich Pilot Mill House The Quarry Talacker 41 Selbourne East London 5247 CH-8001 Zurich Switzerland PO Box 19484 Tacoma 5214 Telephone 41 1 226 1000 Telephone 27 43 721 0660 Facsimile 41 1 226 1010 Facsimile 27 43 721 0664 e-mail info@investecbank.
ch South Africa, Johannesburg United Kingdom, London 100 Grayston Drive Sandown Sandton 2196 2 Gresham Street PO Box 785700 Sandton 2146 London EC2V 7QP Telephone 27 11 286 7000 Telephone 44 20 7597 4000 Facsimile 27 11 286 7777 Facsimile 44 20 7597 4070 e-mail info@investec.
com South Africa, Port Elizabeth United Kingdom, Manchester Ascot Office Park Conyngham Road Greenacres The Pinnacle 73 King Street Port Elizabeth 6045 Manchester M24NG United Kingdom PO Box 27416 Greenacres 6057 Telephone 44 161 819 7900 Telephone 27 41 391 9400 Facsimile 44 161 819 7901 Facsimile 27 41 374 8346 7 e-mail andrew.
co. uk South Africa, Pretoria United States, New York 300 Middel Street Brooklyn 0075 One Battery Park Plaza 2nd Floor PO Box 1882 Brooklyn Square 0075 New York NY 10004 Telephone 27 12 427 8300 United States Facsimile 27 12 427 8310 Telephone 1 212 898 6200 Facsimile 1 212 898 6255 e-mail, South African offices Recruitment queries recruitment@investec.
co. za Client queries - Asset management: comcentre@investecmail.
com - Institutional Securities: securities@investec.
co. za - Private Client Securities: iso@investec.
co. za - Property Group: ipg@investec.
co. za - Private Bank: privatebank@investec.
co. za - Treasury and Specialised Finance: info-tsf@investec.
co. za Switzerland, Geneva 3 Place des Bergues 1201 Geneva Switzerland Telephone 41 22 807 2000 Facsimile 41 22 807 2005 e-mail enquiries@investectrust.
ch Notice of Annual General Meeting Investec plc THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you are recommended to obtain your own personal financial advice immediately from your stockbroker, bank manager, accountant or other independent professional adviser authorised under Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your ordinary shares in Investec plc, please send this document together with the accompanying Form of Proxy at once to the relevant transferee or to the stockbroker, bank or other person through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the relevant transferee.
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Private Bag 9, Parkview, 2122 as auditors of Investec Investec plc will be held at 14:00 UK time on Thursday, 11 Limited to hold office until the conclusion of the Annual August 2005, at the registered office of Investec plc at 2 General Meeting of Investec Limited to be held in 2006 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP to transact the following and to authorise the directors of Investec Limited to fix business: their remuneration.
Ordinary Business: Investec Limited Special Business: Investec Limited To consider and, if deemed fit, to pass, with or without To consider and, if deemed fit, to pass, with or without modification, the following ordinary resolutions of Investec modification, the following ordinary and special resolutions of Limited: Investec Limited: 1.
To receive and adopt the audited financial statements of 8.
Ordinary Resolution: Investec Limited Investec Limited for the year ended 31 March 2005 Resolved that: together with the reports of the directors of Investec - a total of 1 150 047 one million one hundred and Limited and of the auditors of Investec Limited.
fifty thousand and forty seven being 10% ten percent of the unissued ordinary shares in the 2.
To determine, ratify and approve the remuneration of the authorised share capital of Investec Limited be and directors of Investec Limited for the year ended are hereby placed under the control of the directors 31 March 2005. of Investec Limited as a general authority in terms of Section 221 of the South African Companies Act, 3.
To sanction the interim dividend paid by Investec Limited No 61 of 1973, as amended, the SA Act who are on the ordinary shares in Investec Limited for the six authorised to allot and issue the same at their month period ended 30 September 2004. discretion until the next Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited to be held in 2006, subject to the 4.
To sanction the interim dividend paid by Investec Limited provisions of the SA Act, the South African Banks Act, on the SA DAS share for the six month period ended No.
94 of 1990, as amended, and the Listings 30 September 2004.
Requirements of the JSE Securities Exchange South Africa.
To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares in Investec Limited for the year ended 31 March 2005 of an 9.
Ordinary Resolution: Investec Limited amount equal to that recommended by the directors of Resolved that: Investec Limited.
- all the unissued shares in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited, excluding the ordinary shares, be 6.
To declare a final dividend on the SA DAS share of and are hereby placed under the control of the Investec Limited for the year ended 31 March 2005 of an directors of Investec Limited as a general authority in amount equal to that recommended by the directors of terms of Section 221 of the South African Companies Investec Limited.
Act, No 61 of 1973, as amended, the SA Act who are authorised to allot and issue the same at their 7.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young Chartered Accountants SA discretion until the next Annual General Meeting of of Ernst & Young House, Wanderers Office Park, 52 Investec Limited to be held in 2006, subject to the Corlett Drive, Illovo, 2196 PO Box 2322, Johannesburg, provisions of the SA Act, the South African Banks Act, 2000 and KPMG Inc. of 85 Empire Road, Parktown, 2193 No.
94 of 1990, as amended, and the Listings 236 Requirements of the JSE Securities Exchange South 11.
Resolved that: - subject to the passing and registration of Special 10.
Ordinary Resolution: Investec Limited Resolution Number 1 in the Investec Limited Notice Resolved that: of Annual General Meeting convened for - subject to the passing of ordinary resolution No.
8, 11 August 2005 and in terms of Article 9 of the the Listings Requirements of the JSE Securities Articles of Association of Investec Limited and with Exchange South Africa and the South African Banks effect from 11 August 2005, Investec Limited hereby Act, No.
94 of 1990, as amended, the directors of approves, as a general approval contemplated in Investec Limited be and they are hereby authorised to Sections 85 and 89 of the South African Companies allot and issue 1 150 047 one million one hundred Act, No.
"61 of 1973, as amended the ""SA Act"", the and fifty thousand and forty seven ordinary shares of acquisition by Investec Limited or its subsidiaries from ZAR 0.001 each, for cash as and when suitable time to time, of the issued ordinary shares and nonsituations arise, subject to the South African redeemable non-cumulative non-participating Companies Act, No 61 of 1973, as amended, and preference shares of Investec Limited, upon such subject to the following specific limitations as required terms and conditions and in such amounts as the by the Listing Requirements of the JSE Securities directors of Investec Limited or its subsidiaries may Exchange South Africa: from time to time decide, but subject to the i this authority shall not extend beyond the later of the provisions of the SA Act and the Listings date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Requirements of the JSE Securities Exchange South company or the date of the expiry of fifteen months Africa the JSE, being that: from the date of the Annual General Meeting of i any such acquisition of ordinary shares shall be Investec Limited convened for 11 August 2005: effected through the order book operated by the JSE ii a paid press announcement giving full details including trading system and done without any prior the impact on net asset value and earnings per understanding or arrangement: ordinary share, will be published at the time of an ii this general authority shall be valid until Investec issue representing, on a cumulative basis within one Limited's next Annual General Meeting, provided that financial year, five per cent or more of the number of it shall not extend beyond 15 fifteen months from ordinary shares in issue prior to such issue: the date of passing of this Special Resolution No."
1: iii the issue in the aggregate in any one financial year will iii an announcement will be published as soon as not exceed fifteen per cent of the number of ordinary Investec Limited or any of its subsidiaries has acquired shares in issue, including instruments which are ordinary shares constituting, on a cumulative basis, 3% compulsorily convertible: three per cent of the number of ordinary shares in iv in determining the price at which an allotment and issue prior to the acquisition pursuant to which the issue of ordinary shares may be made in terms of this aforesaid 3% three per cent threshold is reached, authority, the maximum discount permitted will be ten and for each 3% three per cent in aggregate per cent of the weighted average traded price of the acquired thereafter, containing full details of such ordinary shares in question as determined over the acquisitions: thirty days prior to the date that the price of the iv acquisitions of shares in aggregate in any one financial issue is determined or agreed by the directors of year may not exceed 20% twenty per cent of Investec Limited's ordinary issued share capital as at Investec Limited: and v the equity securities shares must be issued to public the date of passing of this Special Resolution No.
1: shareholders and not to related parties.
v in determining the price at which ordinary shares issued by Investec Limited are acquired by it or any If this Resolution 10 and Resolution 24 are both passed, the of its subsidiaries in terms of this general authority, the directors will have authority to allot shares for cash other than by maximum premium at which such ordinary shares way of rights in respect of both Investec Limited and Investec plc may be acquired will be 10% ten per cent of the up to the limits specified in those respective Resolutions.
In such weighted average of the market value at which such circumstances, the directors confirm that, as and when they ordinary shares are traded on the JSE as determined exercise such authorities, they intend to comply with the relevant over the five business days immediately preceding the guidelines of the Association of British Insurers.
date of repurchase of such ordinary shares by Investec Limited or any of its subsidiaries: In order for Resolution 10 to be passed, a seventy five per cent vi Investec Limited has been given authority by its majority of the votes of all members present or represented by Articles of Association: proxy at the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited must be vii at any point in time, Investec Limited may only cast in favour of Resolution 10. appoint one agent to effect any repurchase on Investec Limited's behalf: viii Investec Limited's sponsor must confirm the adequacy Notice of Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited's working capital for purposes of General Meeting of Investec Limited convened for undertaking the repurchase of shares in writing to the 11 August 2005.
JSE before entering the market to proceed with the repurchase: The following additional information, some of which may ix Investec Limited remaining in compliance with the appear elsewhere in the annual report of which this notice minimum shareholder spread requirements of the JSE forms part, is provided in terms of the JSE Listings Listings Requirements: and Requirements for purposes of the general authority: x Investec Limited and or its subsidiaries not repurchasing any shares during a prohibited period as - Directors and management - Annual Report pages 150 defined by the JSE Listings Requirements.
to 153: - Major beneficial shareholders - Annual Report page 148: The reason and effect of this Special Resolution No.
1 is to grant - Directors' interests in ordinary shares - Annual Report a renewable general authority to Investec Limited to acquire page 141: and ordinary shares and non-redeemable non-cumulative non- - Share capital of Investec Limited - Annual Report pages participating preference shares of Investec Limited which are in 205 to 207. issue from time to time in terms of the SA Act and the JSE Listing Requirements for the repurchase by Investec Limited or a Litigation statement subsidiary of Investec Limited, of Investec Limited's shares.
In terms of section 11.26 of the JSE Listings Requirements, the directors, whose names appear on pages 150 and 151 of the The directors of Investec Limited have no present intention of Annual Report of which this notice forms part, are not aware making any purchases but believe that Investec Limited should of any legal or arbitration proceedings that are pending or retain the flexibility to take action if future purchases were threatened, that may have or have had in the recent past, considered desirable and in the best interests of shareholders.
The being at least the previous 12, twelve months, a material directors of Investec Limited are of the opinion, after considering effect on the group's financial position.
the effect of such acquisition of ordinary shares and nonredeemable non-cumulative non-participating preference shares, if implemented and on the assumption that the maximum of Directors' responsibility statement twenty per cent of the current issued ordinary share capital of The directors, whose names appear on pages 150 and 151 of Investec Limited will be repurchased using the mechanism of the the Annual Report, collectively and individually accept full general authority at the maximum price at which the repurchase responsibility for the accuracy of the information pertaining to may take place a ten per cent premium above the weighted this special resolution and certify that, to the best of their average of the market value for the securities for the five business knowledge and belief, there are no facts that have been days immediately preceding the date of the repurchase and omitted which would make any statement false or misleading having regard to the price of the ordinary shares of Investec and that all reasonable enquiries to ascertain such facts have Limited on the JSE at the last practical date prior to the date of been made and that the special resolution contains all the notice of Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited information.
convened for 11 August 2005 that: Material changes - Investec Limited and the group will be able, in the ordinary Other than the facts and developments reported on in the course of business, to pay its debt for a period of twelve Annual Report, there have been no material changes in the affairs or financial position of Investec Limited and its months after the date of the notice of Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited convened for 11 August 2005: subsidiaries since the date of signature of the audit report and - the consolidated assets of Investec Limited and the group, up to the date of this notice.
fairly valued in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, will be in excess of the consolidated liabilities of Investec Limited and the group for a period of twelve months after the date of the notice of Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited convened for 11 August 2005: - Investec Limited and the group will have adequate capital and reserves for ordinary business purposes for a period of twelve months after the date of the notice of Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited convened for 11 August 2005: and - the working capital of Investec Limited and the group will be adequate for ordinary business purposes for a period of twelve months after the date of the notice of Annual 238 Ordinary Business: Investec plc Special Business: Investec plc To consider and, if deemed fit, to pass, with or without To consider and, if deemed fit, to pass, with or without modification, the following resolutions of Investec plc: modification, the following resolutions of Investec plc: 12.
To receive and adopt the audited financial statements of 23.
Ordinary Resolution: Investec plc Investec plc for the year ended 31 March 2005 together Resolved that: with the reports of the directors of Investec plc and of the - the authority conferred on the directors of Investec auditors of Investec plc.
plc by paragraph 12.2 of Article 12 of Investec plc's Articles of Association be renewed for the period 13.
To approve the Remuneration Report of Investec plc for ending on the date of the Annual General Meeting of the year ended 31 March 2005.
Investec plc to be held in 2006 or, if earlier, fifteen months from the date on which this Resolution is 14.
To sanction the interim dividend paid by Investec plc on passed, and for such period the Section 80 Amount the ordinary shares in Investec plc for the six month shall be 36 378. period ended 30 September 2004.
The Articles of Association of Investec plc permit the directors of 15.
To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares in Investec plc to allot shares and other securities in accordance with Investec plc for the year ended 31 March 2005 of an section 80 of the UK Companies Act 1985, up to an amount amount equal to that recommended by the directors of authorised by the shareholders in general meeting.
conferred on the directors at Investec plc's Annual General Meeting held in 2004 expires on the date of the forthcoming 16.
To re-elect Geoffrey Michael Thomas Howe as a director Annual General Meeting of Investec plc convened for of Investec plc in accordance with the provisions of the 11 August 2005 and the directors of Investec plc recommend Articles of Association of Investec plc.
that this authority be renewed.
To re-elect Haruko Fukuda OBE as a director of Investec Resolution 23 will, if passed, authorise the directors of Investec plc plc in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of to allot Investec plc's unissued shares up to a maximum nominal Association of Investec plc.
amount of 36 378 representing approximately forty eight per cent of Investec plc's issued ordinary share capital as at 18.
To re-elect Sir John Chippendale Lindley Keswick as a 17 June 2005 the latest practicable date prior to publication of director of Investec plc in accordance with the provisions this notice.
This amount is higher than the one-third of issued of the Articles of Association of Investec plc.
ordinary share capital limit normally adopted by UK companies at their Annual General Meetings to allow the directors of Investec 19.
To re-elect Mangalani Peter Malungani as a director of plc to issue special converting shares in Investec plc as and when Investec plc in accordance with the provisions of the required in accordance with the agreements which constitute Articles of Association of Investec plc.
Investec's dual listed company structure.
The directors of Investec plc would not issue ordinary shares representing more than one- 20.
To re-elect Peter Richard Suter Thomas as a director of third of the current issued ordinary share capital prior to the date Investec plc in accordance with the provisions of the of the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc to be held in 2006 Articles of Association of Investec plc.
The directors of Investec plc have no present intention of exercising their authority to allot 21.
To re-elect Cheryl Ann Carolus, whose appointment as a shares, but believe that Investec plc should retain the flexibility to director terminates at the end of the Annual General take action if future allotments are considered desirable.
Meeting of Investec plc convened for 11 August 2005, as a director of Investec plc in accordance with the provisions 24.
1: Investec plc of the Articles of Association of Investec plc.
Resolved that: - subject to the passing of Resolution 23 the power For brief biographical details of the directors to be reconferred on the directors of Investec plc by elected, please refer to the Annual Report of Investec paragraph 12.3 of Article 12 of Investec plc's Articles Limited Investec plc.
of Association be renewed for the period referred to in Resolution 23 and for such period the Section 89 22.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP of Beckett House, 1 amount shall be 5 931.66.
Lambeth Palace Road, London SEI 7EU as auditors of The purpose of Resolution 24 is to renew the authority of the Investec plc to hold office until the conclusion of the directors of Investec plc to allot equity securities for cash Annual General Meeting of Investec plc to be held in 2006 otherwise than to shareholders in proportion to existing holdings.
and to authorise the directors of Investec plc to fix their In the case of allotments other than rights issues, the authority is remuneration.
limited to equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of Notice of Annual General Meeting 5 931.66 which represents approximately five per cent of the As of 17 June 2005 the latest practicable date prior to total combined issued ordinary share capital of Investec plc and publication of this notice, there were options outstanding over Investec Limited as at 17 June 2005 being the latest practicable 10 665 102 ordinary shares, representing 14.3 per cent of date prior to publication of this notice.
The authority will expire at Investec plc's issued ordinary share capital at that date.
If the the end of the next Annual General Meeting of Investec plc to be authority to buy back shares under this Resolution 25 was held in 2006 or, if earlier, fifteen months after passing this exercised in full, the total number of options to subscribe for Resolution 24. ordinary shares would represent 15.9 per cent of Investec plc's issued ordinary share capital.
If this Resolution 24 and Resolution 10 are both passed, the directors will have authority to allot shares for cash other than by The Companies Acquisition of own Shares Treasury Shares way of rights in respect of both Investec Limited and Investec plc Regulations 2003 the Regulations permit Investec plc to up to the limits specified in those respective Resolutions.
In such purchase its own ordinary shares to be held in treasury, with a circumstances, the directors confirm that, as and when they view to possible resale at a future date as opposed to cancelling exercise such authorities, they intend to comply with the relevant these shares as previously required.
guidelines of the Association of British Insurers.
The directors of Investec plc have no present intention of making 25.
2: Investec plc any purchases, but believe that Investec plc should retain the Resolved that: flexibility to take further action if future purchases were - Investec plc be and is hereby unconditionally and considered desirable and in the best interests of shareholders.
If generally authorised for the purpose of Section 166 Investec plc were to purchase shares under the Regulations they of the UK Companies Act, 1985 the UK Act to will be cancelled or, to the extent determined by the directors of make market purchases as defined in Section 163 of Investec plc, held in treasury, provided that the number of shares the UK Act of ordinary shares of 0.001 each in the held in treasury at any one time does not exceed ten per cent of capital of Investec plc provided that: Investec plc's issued ordinary share capital.
The authority will be i the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares exercised only if the directors of Investec plc believe that to do so which may be purchased is 7 463 375: would result in an increase of earnings per ordinary share and ii the minimum price which may be paid for each would be in the interests of shareholders generally or, in the case ordinary share is its nominal value of 0.001: of the creation of treasury shares, that to do so would be in the iii the maximum price which may be paid for any best interests of shareholders generally.
ordinary share is an amount equal to one hundred and five per cent of the average of the middle market 26.
Ordinary Resolution: Investec plc quotations of the ordinary shares of Investec plc as Resolved that: derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily - the authorised share capital of Investec plc be and Official List for the five business days immediately hereby is increased by the creation of 1 000 000 preceding the day on which such share is contracted Non-cumulative perpetual Preference Shares of to be purchased: and a0.01 each, such shares having attached thereto the iv this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the rights and privileges and being subject to the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc to be held in limitations and restrictions set out in the new Articles 2006, or if earlier, fifteen months from the date on of Association of Investec plc.
which this Resolution is passed except in relation to The purpose of Resolution 26 is to create a new class of nonthe purchase of ordinary shares the contract for which was concluded before the expiry of such cumulative perpetual preference shares in the capital of Investec authority and which might be executed wholly or plc.
partly after such expiry unless such authority is renewed prior to that time.
3: Investec plc Resolved that: The directors of Investec plc consider it may, in certain - subject to the passing of Resolution 26 in this notice circumstances, be in the best interests of shareholders generally and the regulations contained in the print of the for Investec plc to purchase its own ordinary shares.
Accordingly, Articles of Association tabled at the meeting and, for the purpose and effect of Resolution 25 is to grant a general the purpose of identification, signed by the Chairman authority, subject to specified limits, to Investec plc to acquire of the Meeting, be approved and adopted as the new ordinary shares of Investec plc.
You are asked to consent to the Articles of Association of Investec plc.
purchase by Investec plc of up to a maximum of 7 463 375 The purpose of Special Resolution 27 is to adopt new Articles of ordinary shares of 0.001, which represents less than ten per cent Association of Investec plc containing the terms of the nonof Investec plc's issued ordinary share capital as at 17 June 2005 cumulative perpetual preference shares in the capital of Investec the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice.
Ordinary Resolution: Investec plc Notes: Resolved that: - the authority conferred on the directors of Investec 1.
All of the above resolutions are Joint Electorate Actions plc by paragraph 12.3 of Article 12 of Investec plc's under the Articles of Association of Investec plc and, new Articles of Association be renewed for the accordingly, both the holders of ordinary shares in Investec period ending on the fifth anniversary of the passing plc and the holder of the special voting share in Investec of this Resolution and for such period the Section 80 plc are entitled to vote.
Voting will be on a poll which will Preference Share Amount shall be 1 000 000.
This remain open for sufficient time to allow the Investec authority is in addition to the authority conferred by Limited Annual General Meeting to be held and for the resolution number 23 above.
votes of the holder of the Investec plc special voting share to be ascertained and cast on a poll.
The new Articles of Association of Investec plc permit the directors of Investec plc to allot preference shares and other securities in 2.
On the poll: accordance with Section 80 of the UK Companies Act 1985, up a each fully paid ordinary share in Investec plc other to an amount and for a period authorised by the shareholders in than those subject to voting restrictions will have one general meeting.
vote: b the holder of the Investec plc special voting share will The directors of Investec plc consider that the proposed cast the same number of votes as were validly cast for resolutions in the notice of the Annual General Meeting are in and against the equivalent resolution by Investec the best interests of Investec plc and its shareholders and Limited shareholders on the poll at the Investec recommends that you vote in favour as the directors of Limited Annual General Meeting.
Investec plc intend to do in respect of their own beneficial c The holder of the Investec plc special voting share will holdings.
be obliged to cast these votes for and against the relevant resolution in accordance with the votes cast By order of the board for and against the equivalent resolution by Investec Limited shareholders on the poll at the Investec Limited Annual General Meeting: d Through this mechanism, the votes of the Investec Limited shareholders at the Investec Limited Annual Richard Vardy General Meeting will be reflected at Investec plc's Secretary Annual General Meeting in respect of each Joint Electorate Action: and Date: 17 June 2005 e The results of the Joint Electorate Action will be announced after both polls have closed.
A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to Registered Office: appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote 2 Gresham Street instead of him her.
A proxy need not be a member of London Investec plc or Investec Limited.
A proxy may not speak EC2V 7QP at the meeting except with permission from the Chairman of the meeting.
A form of proxy and a voting instruction form are enclosed.
The appointment of a proxy will not prevent a member from subsequently attending and voting at the meeting in person.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy, and any power of attorney or other authority under which it was executed or a duly certified copy of any such power or authority must be returned so as to reach Investec plc's registrars, Computershare Investor Services plc, The Pavillions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 3FA, not less than forty eight hours before the time for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting or in the case of a poll taken otherwise than at or on the same day as the meeting or adjourned meeting for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
Notice of Annual General Meeting 6.
Entitlement to attend and vote at the meeting, the number of votes which may be cast thereat, will be determined by reference to Investec plc's register of members at 14:00 UK time on Tuesday, 9 August 2005 or, if the meeting is adjourned, forty eight before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting, as the case may be.
Copies of all contracts of service under which the directors of Investec plc are employed by Investec plc or any of its subsidiaries are available for inspection at Investec plc's registered office during business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and any public holidays excluded and, along with a copy of the register of interests of the directors, will also be available for inspection at the place of the meeting for fifteen minutes before and during the meeting.
To re-elect Peter Richard Suter Thomas as a director of Investec Limited Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec Limited.
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited will be held at 15:00 South African time on 12.
To re-elect Cheryl Ann Carolus, whose appointment as a Thursday, 11 August 2005, at the registered office of Investec director terminates at the end of the Annual General Limited at 2nd Floor, 100 Grayston Drive, Sandown, Sandton, Meeting of Investec Limited convened for 11 August 2005, 2196, to transact the following business: as a director of Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec Ordinary Business: Investec Limited Limited.
To consider and, if deemed fit, to pass, with or without For brief biographical details of the directors to be re-elected, modification, the following ordinary resolutions of Investec please refer to the Annual Report of Investec Limited Investec Limited: plc.
To receive and adopt the audited financial statements of 13.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young Chartered Accountants SA Investec Limited for the year ended 31 March 2005, of Ernst & Young House, Wanderers Office Park, 52 together with the reports of the directors of Investec Corlett Drive, Illovo, 2196 PO Box 2322, Johannesburg, Limited and of the auditors of Investec Limited.
2000 and KPMG Inc. of 85 Empire Road, Parktown, 2193 Private Bag 9, Parkview, 2122 as auditors of Investec 2.
To determine, ratify and approve the remuneration of the Limited to hold office until the conclusion of the Annual directors of Investec Limited for the year ended General Meeting of Investec Limited to be held in 2006 31 March 2005. and to authorise the directors of Investec Limited to fix their remuneration.
To sanction the interim dividend paid by Investec Limited on the ordinary shares in Investec Limited for the six Special Business: Investec Limited month period ended 30 September 2004.
To consider and, if deemed fit, to pass, with or without 4.
To sanction the interim dividend paid by Investec Limited modification, the following ordinary and special resolutions of on the SA DAS share for the six month period ended Investec Limited: 30 September 2004.
To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares in Resolved that: Investec Limited for the year ended 31 March 2005 of an - a total of 1 150 047 one million one hundred and amount equal to that recommended by the directors of fifty thousand and forty seven being 10% ten Investec Limited.
percent of the unissued ordinary shares in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited be and 6.
To declare a final dividend on the SA DAS share of are hereby placed under the control of the directors Investec Limited for the year ended 31 March 2005 of an of Investec Limited as a general authority in terms of amount equal to that recommended by the directors of Section 221 of the South African Companies Act, No Investec Limited.
61 of 1973, as amended, the SA Act who are authorised to allot and issue the same at their 7.
To re-elect Geoffrey Michael Thomas Howe as a director discretion until the next Annual General Meeting of of Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of Investec Limited to be held in 2006, subject to the the Articles of Association of Investec Limited.
provisions of the SA Act, the South African Banks Act, No.
94 of 1990, as amended, and the Listings 8.
To re-elect Haruko Fukuda OBE as a director of Investec Requirements of the JSE Securities Exchange South Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles Africa.
of Association of Investec Limited.
To re-elect Sir John Chippendale Lindley Keswick as a Resolved that: director of Investec Limited in accordance with the - all the unissued shares in the authorised share capital provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec of Investec Limited, excluding the ordinary shares, be Limited.
and are hereby placed under the control of the directors of Investec Limited as a general authority in 10.
To re-elect Mangalani Peter Malungani as a director of terms of Section 221 of the South African Companies Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Act, No 61 of 1973, as amended, the SA Act who Articles of Association of Investec Limited.
are authorised to allot and issue the same at their Notice of Annual General Meeting discretion until the next Annual General Meeting of proxy at the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited must be Investec Limited to be held in 2006, subject to the cast in favour of Resolution 16. provisions of the SA Act, the South African Banks Act, No.
94 of 1990, as amended, and the Listings 17.
1: Investec Limited Requirements of the JSE Securities Exchange South Resolved that: Africa.
- in terms of Article 9 of the Articles of Association of Investec Limited and with effect from 11 August 2005, 16.
Ordinary Resolution: Investec Limited Investec Limited hereby approves, as a general Resolved that: approval contemplated in Sections 85 and 89 of the - subject to the passing of ordinary resolution No.
14, South African Companies Act, No.
"61 of 1973, as the Listings Requirements of the JSE Securities amended the ""SA Act"", the acquisition by Investec Exchange South Africa and the South African Banks Limited or its subsidiaries from time to time, of the Act, No."
94 of 1990, as amended, the directors of issued ordinary shares and non-redeemable nonInvestec Limited be and they are hereby authorised to cumulative non-participating preference shares of allot and issue 1 150 047 one million one hundred Investec Limited, upon such terms and conditions and and fifty thousand and forty seven ordinary shares of in such amounts as the directors of Investec Limited R0.001 each, for cash as and when suitable situations or its subsidiaries may from time to time decide, but arise, subject to the South African Companies Act, subject to the provisions of the SA Act and the No.
61 of 1973, as amended, and subject to the Listings Requirements of the JSE Securities following specific limitations as required by the Listing Exchange South Africa the JSE, being that : Requirements of the JSE Securities Exchange South i any such acquisition of ordinary shares shall be Africa: effected through the order book operated by the JSE i this authority shall not extend beyond the later of the trading system and done without any prior date of the next annual general meeting of the understanding or arrangement: company or the date of the expiry of fifteen months ii this general authority shall be valid until Investec from the date of the Annual General Meeting of Limited's next Annual General Meeting, provided that Investec Limited convened for 11 August 2005: it shall not extend beyond 15 fifteen months from ii a paid press announcement giving full details including the date of passing of this Special Resolution No.
1: the impact on net asset value and earnings per iii an announcement will be published as soon as ordinary share, will be published at the time of an Investec Limited or any of its subsidiaries has acquired issue representing, on a cumulative basis within one ordinary shares constituting, on a cumulative basis, 3% financial year, five per cent or more of the number of three per cent of the number of ordinary shares in ordinary shares in issue prior to such issue: issue prior to the acquisition pursuant to which the iii the issue in the aggregate in any one financial year will aforesaid 3% three per cent threshold is reached, not exceed fifteen per cent of the number of ordinary and for each 3% three per cent in aggregate shares in issue, including instruments which are acquired thereafter, containing full details of such compulsorily convertible: acquisitions: iv in determining the price at which an allotment and iv acquisitions of shares in aggregate in any one financial issue of ordinary shares may be made in terms of this year may not exceed 20% twenty per cent of authority, the maximum discount permitted will be ten Investec Limited's ordinary issued share capital as at per cent of the weighted average traded price of the the date of passing of this Special Resolution No.
1: ordinary shares in question as determined over the v in determining the price at which ordinary shares thirty days prior to the date that the price of the issued by Investec Limited are acquired by it or any of issue is determined or agreed by the directors of its subsidiaries in terms of this general authority, the Investec Limited: and maximum premium at which such ordinary shares v the equity securities shares must be issued to public may be acquired will be 10% ten per cent of the shareholders and not to related parties.
weighted average of the market value at which such ordinary shares are traded on the JSE as determined If this Resolution 16 and Resolution 24 are both passed, the over the five business days immediately preceding the directors will have authority to allot shares for cash other than by date of repurchase of such ordinary shares by way of rights in respect of both Investec Limited and Investec plc Investec Limited or any of its subsidiaries: up to the limits specified in those respective Resolutions.
In such vi Investec Limited has been given authority by its circumstances, the directors confirm that, as and when they Articles of Association: exercise such authorities, they intend to comply with the relevant vii at any point in time, Investec Limited may only guidelines of the Association of British Insurers.
appoint one agent to effect any repurchase on Investec Limited's behalf: In order for Resolution 16 to be passed, a seventy five per cent viii Investec Limited's sponsor must confirm the adequacy majority of the votes of all members present or represented by of Investec Limited's working capital for purposes of 244 undertaking the repurchase of shares in writing to the The following additional information, some of which may JSE before entering the market to proceed with the appear elsewhere in the Annual Report of which this notice repurchase: forms part, is provided in terms of the JSE Listings ix Investec Limited remaining in compliance with the Requirements for purposes of the general authority: minimum shareholder spread requirements of the JSE - Directors and management - Annual Report pages 150 Listings Requirements: and to 153: x Investec Limited and or its subsidiaries not - Major beneficial shareholders - Annual Report page 148: repurchasing any shares during a prohibited period as - Directors' interests in ordinary shares - Annual Report defined by the JSE Listings Requirements.
page 141: and - Share capital of Investec Limited - Annual Report pages The reason and effect of this Special Resolution No.
1 is to grant 205 to 207. a renewable general authority to Investec Limited to acquire ordinary shares and non-redeemable non-cumulative nonLitigation statement participating preference shares of Investec Limited which are in In terms of section 11.26 of the JSE Listings Requirements, the issue from time to time in terms of the SA Act and the JSE Listing directors, whose names appear on pages 150 to 151 of the Requirements for the repurchase by Investec Limited or a Annual Report of which this notice forms part, are not aware subsidiary of Investec Limited, of Investec Limited's shares.
of any legal or arbitration proceedings that are pending or threatened, that may have or have had in the recent past, The directors of Investec Limited have no present intention of being at least the previous 12 twelve months, a material making any purchases but believe that Investec Limited should effect on the group's financial position.
retain the flexibility to take action if future purchases were considered desirable and in the best interests of shareholders.
The Directors' responsibility statement directors of Investec Limited are of the opinion, after considering The directors, whose names appear on pages 150 to 151 of the effect of such acquisition of ordinary shares and nonthe Annual Report, collectively and individually accept full redeemable non-cumulative non-participating preference shares, if responsibility for the accuracy of the information pertaining to implemented and on the assumption that the maximum of this special resolution and certify that, to the best of their twenty per cent of the current issued ordinary share capital of knowledge and belief, there are no facts that have been Investec Limited will be repurchased using the mechanism of the omitted which would make any statement false or misleading general authority at the maximum price at which the repurchase and that all reasonable enquiries to ascertain such facts have may take place a ten per cent premium above the weighted been made and that the special resolution contains all average of the market value for the securities for the five business information.
days immediately preceding the date of the repurchase and having regard to the price of the ordinary shares of Investec Material changes Limited on the JSE at the last practical date prior to the date of Other than the facts and developments reported on in the the notice of Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited Annual Report, there have been no material changes in the convened for 11 August 2005 that: affairs or financial position of Investec Limited and its subsidiaries since the date of signature of the audit report and - Investec Limited and the group will be able, in the ordinary up to the date of this notice.
course of business, to pay its debts for a period of twelve months after the date of the notice of Annual General Ordinary Business: Investec plc Meeting of Investec Limited convened for 11 August 2005: - the consolidated assets of Investec Limited and the group, To consider and, if deemed fit, to pass, with or without fairly valued in accordance with Generally Accepted modification, the following resolutions of Investec plc: Accounting Practice, will be in excess of the consolidated liabilities of Investec Limited and the group for a period of 18.
To receive and adopt the audited financial statements of twelve months after the date of the notice of Annual Investec plc for the year ended 31 March 2005, together General Meeting of Investec Limited convened for with the reports of the directors of Investec plc and of the 11 August 2005: auditors of Investec plc.
- Investec Limited and the group will have adequate capital and reserves for ordinary business purposes for a period 19.
To approve the Remuneration Report of Investec plc for of twelve months after the date of the notice of Annual the year ended 31 March 2005.
General Meeting of Investec Limited convened for 11 August 2005: and 20.
To sanction the interim dividend paid by Investec plc on - the working capital of Investec Limited and the group will the ordinary shares in Investec plc for the six month be adequate for ordinary business purposes for a period period ended 30 September 2004. of twelve months after the date of the notice of Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited convened for 11 August 2005.
Notice of Annual General Meeting 21.
To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares in 24.
Ordinary Resolution: Investec plc Investec plc for the year ended 31 March 2005 of an Resolved that: amount equal to that recommended by the directors of - subject to the passing of Resolution 23 the power Investec plc.
conferred on the directors of Investec plc by paragraph 12.3 of Article 12 of Investec plc's Articles of Association 22.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP of Beckett House, 1 be renewed for the period referred to in Resolution 23 Lambeth Palace Road, London, SEI 7EU, as auditors of and for such period the Section 89 amount shall be Investec plc to hold office until the conclusion of the 5 931.66.
Annual General Meeting of Investec plc to be held in 2006 and to authorise the directors of Investec plc to fix their The purpose of Resolution 24 is to renew the authority of the remuneration.
directors of Investec plc to allot equity securities for cash otherwise than to shareholders in proportion to existing holdings.
In the case of Special Business: Investec plc allotments other than rights issues, the authority is limited to equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 5 931.66 which To consider and, if deemed fit, to pass, with or without represents approximately five per cent of the total combined issued modification, the following resolutions of Investec plc: ordinary share capital of Investec plc and Investec Limited as at 17 June 2005 being the latest practicable date prior to publication 23.
Ordinary Resolution: Investec plc of this notice.
The authority will expire at the end of the next Annual Resolved that: General Meeting of Investec plc to be held in 2006 or, if earlier, - the authority conferred on the directors of Investec fifteen months after the passing of this Resolution 24. plc by paragraph 12.2 of Article 12 of Investec plc's Articles of Association be renewed for the period If this Resolution 24 and Resolution 16 are both passed, the directors ending on the date of the Annual General Meeting of will have authority to allot shares for cash other than by way of rights Investec plc to be held in 2006 or, if earlier, fifteen in respect of both Investec Limited and Investec plc up to the limits months from the date on which this Resolution is specified in those respective Resolutions.
In such circumstances, the passed, and for such period the Section 80 Amount directors confirm that, as and when they exercise such authorities, shall be 36 378. they intend to comply with the relevant guidelines of the Association of British Insurers.
The Articles of Association of Investec plc permit the directors of Investec plc to allot shares and other securities in accordance with In order for Resolution 24 to be passed, a seventy five per cent section 80 of the UK Companies Act 1985, up to an amount majority of the votes of all members present or represented by proxy authorised by the shareholders in general meeting.
The authority at the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited must be cast in conferred on the directors at Investec plc's Annual General favour of Resolution 24.
Meeting held in 2004 expires on the date of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of Investec plc convened for 11 August 25.
Ordinary Resolution: Investec plc 2005 and the directors of Investec plc recommend that this Resolved that: authority be renewed.
- Investec plc be and is hereby unconditionally and generally authorised for the purpose of Section 166 Resolution 23 will, if passed, authorise the directors of Investec plc of the UK Companies Act, 1985 the UK Act to to allot Investec plc's unissued shares up to a maximum nominal make market purchases as defined in Section 163 of amount of 36 378 representing approximately forty eight per the UK Act of ordinary shares of 0.001 each in the cent of Investec plc's issued ordinary share capital as at capital of Investec plc provided that: 17 June 2005 the latest practicable date prior to publication of i the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares this notice.
This amount is higher than the one-third of issued which may be purchased is 7 463 375: ordinary share capital limit normally adopted by UK companies at ii the minimum price which may be paid for each their Annual General Meetings to allow the directors of Investec ordinary share is its nominal value of 0.001: plc to issue special converting shares in Investec plc as and when iii the maximum price which may be paid for any required in accordance with the agreements which constitute ordinary share is an amount equal to one hundred Investec's dual listed company structure.
The directors of Investec and five per cent of the average of the middle market plc would not issue ordinary shares representing more than onequotations of the ordinary shares of Investec plc as third of the current issued ordinary share capital prior to the date derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily of the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc to be held in 2006 Official List for the five business days immediately without seeking shareholder approval.
The directors of Investec plc preceding the day on which such share is contracted have no present intention of exercising their authority to allot to be purchased: and shares, but believe that Investec plc should retain the flexibility to iv this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the take action if future allotments are considered desirable.
Annual General Meeting of Investec plc to be held in 2006, or if earlier, fifteen months from the date on 246 which this Resolution is passed except in relation to 26.
Ordinary Resolution: Investec plc the purchase of ordinary shares the contract for Resolved that: which was concluded before the expiry of such - the authorised share capital of Investec plc be and authority and which might be executed wholly or hereby is increased by the creation of 1 000 000 nonpartly after such expiry unless such authority is cumulative perpetual Preference Shares of a0.01 renewed prior to that time.
each, such shares having attached thereto the rights and privileges and being subject to the limitations and The directors of Investec plc consider it may, in certain restrictions set out in the new Articles of Association circumstances, be in the best interests of shareholders generally of Investec plc.
for Investec plc to purchase its own ordinary shares.
Accordingly, the purpose and effect of Resolution 25 is to grant a general The purpose of Resolution 26 is to create a new class of nonauthority, subject to specified limits, to Investec plc to acquire cumulative perpetual preference shares in the capital of Investec ordinary shares of Investec plc.
You are asked to consent to the plc.
purchase by Investec plc of up to a maximum of 7 463 375 ordinary shares of 0.001, which represents less than ten per cent 27.
Ordinary Resolution: Investec plc of Investec plc's issued share capital as at 17 June 2005 the Resolved that: latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice.
- subject to the passing of Resolution 26 in this notice and the regulations contained in the print of the As of 17 June 2005 the latest practicable date prior to Articles of Association tabled at the meeting and, for publication of this notice, there were options outstanding over the purpose of identification, signed by the Chairman 10 665 102 ordinary shares, representing 14.3 per cent of of the Meeting, be approved and adopted as the new Investec plc's issued ordinary share capital at that date.
If the Articles of Association of Investec plc.
authority to buy back shares under this Resolution 25 was exercised in full, the total number of options to subscribe for The purpose of Resolution 27 is to adopt new Articles of ordinary shares would represent 15.9 per cent of Investec plc's Association of Investec plc containing the terms of the nonissued ordinary share capital.
cumulative perpetual preference shares in the capital of Investec plc.
The Companies Acquisition of own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 the Regulations permit Investec plc to In order for Resolution 27 to be passed, a seventy five per cent purchase its own ordinary shares to be held in treasury, with a majority of the votes of all members present or represented by view to possible resale at a future date as opposed to cancelling proxy at the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited must be these shares as previously required.
cast in favour of Resolution 27.
The directors of Investec plc have no present intention of making 28.
Ordinary Resolution: Investec plc any purchases, but believe that Investec plc should retain the Resolved that: flexibility to take further action if future purchases were - the authority conferred on the directors of Investec considered desirable and in the best interests of shareholders.
If plc by paragraph 12.3 of Article 12 of Investec plc's Investec plc were to purchase shares under the Regulations they new Articles of Association be renewed for the will be cancelled or, to the extent determined by the directors of period ending on the fifth anniversary of the passing Investec plc, held in treasury, provided that the number of shares of this Resolution and for such period the Section 80 held in treasury at any one time does not exceed ten per cent of Preference Share Amount shall be 1 000 000.
This Investec plc's issued ordinary share capital.
The authority will be authority is in addition to the authority conferred by exercised only if the directors of Investec plc believe that to do so resolution number 23 above.
would result in an increase of earnings per ordinary share and would be in the interests of shareholders generally or, in the case The new Articles of Association of Investec plc permit the directors of the creation of treasury shares, that to do so would be in the of Investec plc to allot preference shares and other securities in best interests of shareholders generally.
accordance with Section 80 of the UK Companies Act 1985, up to an amount and for a period authorised by the shareholders in In order for Resolution 25 to be passed, a seventy five per cent general meeting.
majority of the votes of all members present or represented by proxy at the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited must be cast in favour of Resolution 25.
Notice of Annual General Meeting The directors of Investec Limited consider that the proposed d through this mechanism, the votes of the Investec plc resolutions in the notice of the Annual General Meeting are in shareholders at the Investec plc Annual General Meeting the best interests of Investec Limited and its shareholders and will be reflected at Investec Limited's Annual General recommend that you vote in favour as the directors of Meeting in respect of each Joint Electorate Action: and Investec Limited intend to do in respect of their own beneficial e the results of the Joint Electorate Actions will be holdings.
announced after both polls have closed.
A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a By order of the board, proxy or proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him her.
A proxy need not be a member of Investec Limited or Investec plc.
A proxy may not speak at the meeting except with permission from the chairman of the meeting.
Selwyn Noik The appointment of a proxy will not prevent a member from Company Secretary subsequently attending and voting at the meeting in person.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy, and any power of attorney or other authority under which it is Registration No: 1925 002833 06 executed or a duly certified copy of any such power or authority, must be deposited at the Transfer Secretary's office Registered Office: not less than forty eight hours before the time for holding the 100 Grayston Drive meeting or adjourned meeting or in the case of a poll taken Sandown otherwise than at or on the same day as the meeting or Sandton, 2196 adjourned meeting for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
Entitlement to attend and vote at the meeting, and the Notes: number of votes which may be cast thereat, will be determined by reference to Investec Limited's register of 1.
All of the above resolutions are Joint Electorate Actions under members at 15:00 South African time on Tuesday, the Articles of Association of Investec Limited and, accordingly, 9 August 2005 or, if the meeting is adjourned, forty eight both the holders of ordinary shares in Investec Limited and hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting, as the the holders of the special convertible redeemable preference case may be.
shares in Investec Limited are entitled to vote.
Voting will be on a poll which will remain open for sufficient time to allow the Investec plc Annual General Meeting to be held and for the vote of the holders of Investec Limited's special convertible redeemable preference shares to be ascertained and cast on a poll.
On the poll: a each ordinary share in Investec Limited other than those subject to voting restrictions will have one vote: b the holder of Investec Limited's special convertible redeemable preference shares will cast the same number of votes as were validly cast for and against the equivalent resolution at the Investec plc Annual General Meeting: c the holder of Investec Limited's special convertible redeemable preference shares will be obliged to cast these votes for and against the relevant resolution in accordance with the votes cast for and against the equivalent resolution by Investec plc shareholders on the poll at the Investec plc Annual General Meeting:
