Accounting policies Basis of presentation Changes to accounting policies and comparative information The group comprises Investec plc, Investec Limited and their subsidiary undertakings.
The accounting policies adopted by the group are consistent with the prior year except as noted below.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the The group adopted the following new UK accounting revaluation of certain assets.
standards during the year: UITF 38: Accounting for ESOP trusts These financial statements have been prepared having regard The group has adopted UITF 38 in respect of the accounting to Part VII, Chapter II of, and Schedule 9 to, the Companies for employee share incentive trusts ESOP trusts.
In summary Act 1985 in accordance with applicable UK accounting the impact on adoption of the new standard is as follows: standards, and with the Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the British Bankers' Association, except where noted Own shares held by the ESOP trusts which have not vested in the financial statements below.
with employees are deducted from shareholders' funds previously included on balance sheet as an asset under Under UK GAAP the accounts of Investec plc and Investec own shares.
Limited have been combined in accordance with S227 5 of No gain or loss is recognised in the profit and loss account the Companies Act 1985 on the grounds that they form a or statement of total recognised gains and losses on the single economic entity.
The merger method of accounting has purchase, sale or cancellation of the group's own shares held been used to account for the combination in accordance with by the ESOP trusts.
the provisions of FRS 6 applying to group reconstructions, The net finance costs of the ESOP trusts are charged to the since the Dual Listed Company structure was brought into profit and loss account as they accrue.
effect, in the 2003 financial year, by fide-merging the then existing Investec group into two sub-groups headed by The impact of the above changes in accounting policies is Investec plc and Investec Limited by virtue of share for share detailed below: transfers which did not alter the rights of existing shareholders or the interest of any minority.
The nature of the DLC merger 12 months to 31 March 2004 000 has resulted in the inclusion of amounts attributable to the shareholders of both Investec plc and Investec Limited in Interest receivable 1 184 capital and reserves on the balance sheet, and in attributable Interest payable - profit.
Net interest income 1 184 Other operating income 1 063 The effect of the DLC merger is that Investec plc and its Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 121 subsidiaries and Investec Limited and its subsidiaries operate Taxation - together as a single economic entity, with neither assuming a Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 121 dominate role.
This is demonstrated by the following key features of the arrangements: The shareholders of Investec plc and Investec Limited have a common economic interest in both groups: The impact of the above changes in accounting policies on The shareholders of Investec plc and Investec Limited take opening reserves is detailed below: key decisions, including the election of directors, through a 000 joint electoral procedure under which the shareholders of Reserves at 31 March 2004 as previously the two companies effectively vote on a joint basis: Investec plc and Investec Limited have a common Board of reported 808 969 Directors, a unified management structure and joint - UITF 38 42 596 objectives: and Relating to 2004 opening reserves 51 502 Dividends and capital distributions made by the two Relating to 2004 movement in reserves 8 906 companies are equalised.
Retained profit for the year 121 Net increase in treasury shares 5 764 If either Investec plc or Investec Limited propose to pay a Net movement in share premium on dividend to its shareholders, then the other Company must re-issue of treasury shares 3 021 pay a matching cash dividend of an equivalent amount per share to its shareholders.
If either Company is prohibited by Restated total reserves at 31 March 2004 766 373 law or is otherwise unable to declare, pay or otherwise make all or any portion of such a matching dividend, the Investec plc or Investec Limited will, so far as it is practicable to do so, enter into such transactions with each other as their Boards agree to be necessary or desirable so as to enable both Companies to pay dividends as nearly as practicable at the same time.
168 translated at an average rate and the closing rate is recorded Basis of consolidation as a movement in reserves.
Any exchange differences on foreign currency loans and derivatives which are used to The group financial statements incorporate the financial results hedge the net investment in foreign subsidiaries are also taken of the group and its subsidiaries.
All subsidiaries in which the to reserves.
group holds more than one half of the voting rights or over Goodwill arising on the acquisition of foreign entities is which it exercises control are consolidated from the effective translated at the closing exchange rate.
dates of acquisition and up to the effective dates of disposal, except entities where they are held exclusively for subsequent resale.
Foreign currency transactions Entities, other than subsidiary undertakings, in which the group has a participating interest and exercises significant influence Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are over operating and financial policies, are treated as associates.
translated into the local reporting currency at market rates of In the group accounts, associates are accounted for using the exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All foreign currency equity method.
Other participating interests on which the transactions are translated into the local reporting currency at group does not exercise significant influence are accounted for the exchange rates ruling at the time of the transactions.
Any at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an The consolidated financial statements include the attributable exchange gain or loss in the profit and loss account.
share of the results and reserves of associated undertakings.
The group's interests in associated undertakings are included in the consolidated balance sheet at the group's share of net Debt securities and equity shares assets plus unamortised goodwill.
Shares and securities intended for use on a continuing basis in Positive goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is the group's activities are classified as investment securities.
amortised against income over its useful economic life, for a Such shares and securities are stated at cost less provision for period not exceeding 20 years.
Negative goodwill arising on any impairment in value.
The cost of dated investment acquisitions is included within intangible fixed assets and securities is adjusted for the amortisation of premiums or released to profit and loss account initially over the period that discounts on a level yield basis over the period to maturity.
non-monetary assets are recovered and then over the periods expected to benefit.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at Debt securities held for the purpose of hedging are valued on the end of the first full financial year following the acquisition the same basis as the liabilities which are being hedged.
Other and in other periods if events or changes in circumstances debt securities and equity shares are included in the balance indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Changes in the market value of such assets are recognised in the profit and loss account as 'dealing In order to reflect the different nature of the shareholders' profits' as they arise.
and policyholders' interests in the long-term assurance business, the value of the long-term assurance business Where securities are sold subject to a commitment to attributable to shareholders and the assets and liabilities repurchase them, they remain on balance sheet.
Obligations attributable to policyholders are classified under separate for the repurchase of these securities are included under headings in the consolidated balance sheet.
deposits by banks and customer accounts.
Securities that are purchased under a commitment to resell the securities at a The group operates various Employee Benefit Trusts.
In terms future date are not recognised on the balance sheet.
The of UITF 38, the assets and liabilities of the Employee Benefit consideration paid is included in loans and advances to banks Trusts are consolidated within the group financial statements.
or loans and advances to customers.
Stock lending and borrowing transactions that are not cash Foreign entities collateralised are not included in the balance sheet.
Stock lending and borrowing transactions which are cash The net assets of foreign subsidiaries are translated at closing collateralised are accounted for in the same manner as rates of exchange and the translation differences arising are securities sold or purchased subject to repurchase taken to reserves.
The results of these companies are commitments.
translated at weighted average rates of exchange for the relevant period.
The difference between the profit and loss Accounting policies Financial instruments Instalment credit, leases and rental agreements Financial instruments in the trading book are measured at fair value, whereas financial instruments in the non-trading book, Amounts outstanding on these contracts, net of unearned including loans and investment securities, are measured at finance charges, are included in loans and advances.
Income and expenses on trading instruments charges on finance leases and instalment credit transactions are recognised in the profit and loss account in full in the are credited to income in proportion to the capital balances current period, whereas income and expenses on non-trading outstanding.
Rentals payable under operating leases are instruments are amortised over the life of the instrument, with charged in the profit and loss account on a straight line basis adjustments made to reflect changes in estimated premiums over the lease term.
Specific and general provisions for bad Derivatives and doubtful debts Derivatives are used to hedge interest, exchange rate and Specific provisions represent the quantification of actual and equity exposures related to non-trading positions.
Instruments expected losses from identified accounts and are deducted used for hedging purposes include swaps, equity derivatives, from loans and advances in the balance sheet.
The amount of credit derivatives, forward rate agreements, futures, options specific provision raised is the group's conservative estimate of and combinations of these instruments.
In addition, the use of the amount needed to reduce the carrying value of the asset derivatives and their sale to customers as risk management to the expected ultimate net realisable value, taking into products is an integral part of the group's trading activities.
account the financial status of the customer and any security Derivatives entered into for trading purposes include swaps, for the loan.
Included in the specific provisions are amounts in equity derivatives, credit derivatives, commodity derivatives, respect of interest that is not serviced.
The charge for forward rate agreements, futures, options and combinations of provision for bad and doubtful debts in the profit and loss these instruments.
account includes the unserviced interest which has been transferred to specific provisions.
Doubtful debts are written Where the group has entered into legally binding netting off against the balance sheet and provision in part, or in whole, agreements, positive and negative values of derivatives are when the extent of the loss incurred has been determined.
offset within the balance sheet totals.
General provisions augment specific provisions and provide Exposures to market risks are limited through the use of cover for loans which are impaired at the balance sheet date hedging instruments.
The criteria used for a derivative but which will not be identified as such until some time in the instrument to be classified as a designated hedge include: future.
The group's general provision has been determined taking into account the structure and the risk characteristics of - the transaction must effectively reduce the price or interest the group's loan portfolio.
A number of complex and changing rate or credit risk of the asset, liability or cashflow to which factors are collectively weighted by management in it is linked: and determining the adequacy of provisions.
These factors include - adequate evidence of the intention to link with the management's view of the extent of existing risks in the loan underlying risk inherent in the asset, liability or cashflow: and portfolio and prevailing economic conditions.
General - the transaction must be designated as a hedge at the provisions are deducted from loans and advances to inception of the derivative contract.
customers in the balance sheet.
The hedging instruments are accounted for on the same basis as the underlying asset, liability, position or cash flow being hedged with income and expense being recognised in the Tangible fixed assets profit and loss account.
Hedging transactions which are superseded, cease to be effective or are terminated prior to Tangible fixed assets are stated at original cost.
Depreciation is the end of the life of the asset, liability or cashflow being provided on a straight-line basis over their anticipated useful hedged are measured at fair value.
Any profit or loss arising is lives.
Leasehold improvements are amortised over the shorter deferred and amortised into income or expense over the of 20 years and the remaining period of the leases.
remaining life of the item previously hedged.
When the underlying asset, liability position or cashflow is terminated The annual rates used to depreciate assets are as follows: prior to the hedging transaction, the hedging transaction is Computer equipment 33% measured at fair value and the resulting profit or loss is Motor vehicles 20% - 25% included in the category of income or expense relating to the Equipment 20% previously hedged transaction.
Furniture and fittings 10% - 20% Freehold properties 2% 170 The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are reviewed for Deferred tax assets are generally not recognised in respect of impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the capital losses as crystallisation of capital gains and the eligibility carrying value may not be recoverable.
of potential capital losses is uncertain.
Certain of the group's properties are held for long-term Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax investment.
Investment properties are accounted for in rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the accordance with SSAP 19, as follows: timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates i investment properties are revalued semi-annually.
The and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at surplus or deficit on revaluation is transferred to the the balance sheet date.
revaluation reserve unless a deficit below original cost, or its reversal, on an individual property is expected to be permanent, in which case it is recognised in the profit and Long term life assurance loss account for the year: and ii no depreciation is provided in respect of freehold 1 Investec Employee Benefits investment properties or leasehold investment properties where the lease has over 20 years to run.
Investec Employee Benefits is engaged in writing long-term Although the Companies Act would normally require the assurance business, including the provision of life assurance, systematic annual depreciation of fixed assets, the directors pensions and annuities.
The company is structured into believe that the policy of not providing depreciation is policyholders' funds and a shareholder's fund.
All premiums necessary in order for the financial statements to give a true received, investment returns, claims and expenses, and changes and fair view, since the current value of investment properties, in liabilities to policyholders are accounted for within the and changes to that current value, are of prime importance related long-term assurance fund.
Any surplus, which is rather than a calculation for systematic annual depreciation.
determined annually by the Appointed Actuary after taking Depreciation is only one of the many factors reflected in the account of these items, may either be distributed between the annual valuation, and the amount which otherwise would have shareholder and the policyholders according to a been included cannot be separately identified or quantified.
predetermined formula or retained within the long-term assurance fund.
The shareholder will also levy investment management and administration charges upon the long-term Dealing properties assurance fund.
Dealing properties are included in other assets and are stated The group accounts for its interest in the long-term assurance at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
business using the embedded value basis of accounting.
The value of the shareholder's interest in the long-term assurance business 'the embedded value' included in the group's balance sheet is an actuarially determined estimate of the Taxation economic value of the group's life assurance subsidiaries, excluding any value, which may be attributed to future new Corporation tax payable is provided on taxable profits at the business.
The embedded value comprises the net tangible current rate.
assets of the life assurance subsidiaries, including any surplus retained within the long-term assurance funds, which could be transferred to the shareholder, and the present value of the inDeferred taxation force business.
The value of the in-force business is calculated by projecting the future surpluses and other net cash flows Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing attributable to the shareholder arising from business written by differences that have originated but not reversed at the the balance sheet date, using appropriate economic and balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in actuarial assumptions, and discounting the result at a rate an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay which reflects the shareholder's overall risk premium.
less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
This is subject to deferred tax assets only being recognised if it Changes in the embedded value, which are determined on a considered more likely than not that there will be suitable post-tax basis, are included in the profit and loss account.
profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Timing differences are the The assets held within the long-term assurance funds are differences between the group's taxable profits and its results legally owned by the life assurance companies.
However the as stated in the financial statements, which are capable of shareholder will only benefit from ownership of these assets reversal in one or more subsequent periods.
to the extent that surpluses are declared or from other cashflows attributable to the shareholder.
Reflecting the Accounting policies different nature of these assets, they are classified separately finance fees are included in trading securities and valued on the group's balance sheet as 'Long-term assurance assets accordingly.
attributable to policyholders', with a corresponding liability to the policyholders also shown.
Investments held within the Other operating income includes realised profits and losses on long-term assurance funds are included on the following basis: disposal of investments and dividends received.
equity shares, debt securities and unit trusts are valued at market prices: investment properties are reflected at directors' valuation, and loans are at cost less amounts written off.
Retirement benefits 2 Investec Assurance Limited The group operates various defined contribution schemes and two closed defined benefit schemes.
The policy liabilities of Investec Assurance Limited comprise unit-linked business sold to retirement funds and individual In respect of the defined contribution scheme all employer investors.
All liabilities are directly related to asset values and contributions are charged to income, as they become payable the company assumes no mortality risk.
in accordance with the rules of the scheme, and included under staff costs.
The liabilities are valued on a basis consistent with the asset values and comply with the Financial Soundness Valuation basis, The assets of the defined benefit schemes are measured at as is accepted accounting practice in South Africa.
their market value at the balance sheet date and the liabilities of the schemes are measured using the projected unit method.
Investments are reflected at market value.
Where market value The discount rate used to measure the schemes' liabilities is cannot be determined, investments are reflected at directors' the current rate of return on an AA corporate bond at the valuation.
balance sheet date of equivalent term and currency to the liabilities.
The extent to which the schemes' assets exceed or Income from long-term assurance business comprises interest, fall short of the schemes' liabilities is shown as a surplus or dividends and rental income received on investments held, as deficit in the balance sheet net of deferred taxation to the well as premium income in respect of linked business sold.
extent that it is considered recoverable.
Gains and losses arising as result of the fluctuation in the market value of investments, whether realised or unrealised, The movement in the scheme surplus deficit is split between are accounted for as movements in the long-term assurance operating charges, financing items and, in the statement of total fund.
recognised gains and losses, actuarial gains and losses.
Income recognition Capital instruments Interest income is recognised in the profit and loss account as Shares are included in shareholders' funds.
Other instruments it accrues other than interest the collectability of which is are classified as liabilities if they contain an obligation to considered doubtful which is credited to a suspense account transfer economic benefits and if not they are included in and excluded from interest income.
The closing balance on the shareholders' funds.
The finance cost recognised in the profit suspense account is netted in the balance sheet against and loss account in respect of capital instruments other than accrued interest receivable or, as the case may be, the amount equity shares is allocated to periods over the term of the debited to the borrower.
Suspended interest is written off instrument at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
when there is no longer any realistic prospect of it being recovered.
Dealing profits is shown net of the funding cost of the underlying positions and includes the unrealised profits on trading portfolios, which are marked to market daily.
Commissions and fees include fees earned from providing advisory services, portfolio management and the arranging of financing for clients.
All such commissions and fees are recognised as revenue when the related services are performed.
Fees and commissions charged in lieu of interest are taken to income on a level yield basis over the period of the loan.
Equity investments received in lieu of corporate
