Notes to the financial statements Treasury Asset Group Private & Management Services For the year ended 31 March Client Specialised Investment & Property & Other Total 000 Activities Finance Banking Assurance Activities Activities group 2.
In the view of the directors it would not be meaningful to provide this information by class of business since economic capital of certain significant businesses of the group is not held in, or allocated to, these businesses, but is held centrally.
As the business of the group is mainly that of banking and insurance, no segmental analysis of turnover is given.
Notes to the financial statements United For the year ended 31 March Kingdom, Southern Other Total 000 Europe Africa Australiageographies group 2.
In the view of the directors it would not be meaningful to provide this information by class of business since the economic capital of certain significant businesses of the group is not held in, or allocated to, these businesses, but is held centrally.
The Statement of Recommended Practice on Segmental Reporting by Banks and the Companies Act recommends the disclosure by geographical segment of gross income, consisting of interest receivable, dividend income, fees and commissions receivable, dealing profits and other operating income.
In the view of the directors, interest receivable and fees and commissions receivable are monitored on a net basis and an aggregate split of fees and commissions receivable and payable by geographical segment would not provide meaningful disclosure.
Consequently, gross income is not separately disclosed.
Segmental analysis continued The statement of Recommended Practice on Segmental Reporting by banks recommends that the geographical analysis be based on the location of the office at which the transaction was recorded or the location of the customer.
The group geographical analysis is based on the location of the office at which the transaction was recorded, except for the traded endowment business.
Although the traded endowment business is conducted and recorded in the United Kingdom, it has been allocated to the South African segment as the business is held by Investec Limited and managed as part of the South African operations.
