Investec plc financial statements incorporating the results of Investec Limited Post-completion Investec 1 holds 47.7% of the issued share Directors responsiblity statement capital of Rensburg, which has now been renamed Rensburg Sheppards plc.
For a period of five years following completion, The following statement, which should be read in conjunction Investec 1 has undertaken not to vote in excess of 30 per with the Auditor's report set out on page 158, is made with a cent of the voting rights of Rensburg's issued share capital and view to distinguishing for stakeholders the respective has agreed, subject to certain exceptions, not to dispose of responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation any of its shareholding for a period of 18 months from to the financial statements.
In terms of the waiver granted to Investec 1 not to make a general offer to all shareholders of Rensburg, the Company law requires the directors to prepare financial Investec group, or persons acting in concert with it, is not statements for each financial year, which give a true and fair permitted to increase its shareholding beyond 48.7% of the view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or issued share capital of Rensburg.
loss of the company for that financial year.
Issue of Preferred Securities The directors consider that in preparing the financial The company is at an advanced stage in raising statements on pages 160 to 166, and 172 to 228 and the a150-200 million of innovative Tier 1 capital through the issue additional information contained on pages 01 to 39, the of 7.075 per cent, guaranteed Non-voting Non-cumulative company has used appropriate accounting policies which have Perpetual Preferred Callable Securities Preferred Securities been consistently applied and have been supported by by Investec Tier 1 UK Limited a limited partnership reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all organised under the laws of England and Wales having the accounting standards which the directors consider to be benefit of a subordinated guarantee from the company.
The applicable have been followed.
Preferred Securities are callable at the option of the issuer, subject to the approval of the Financial Services Authority, on The financial statements of the company have been prepared the tenth anniversary of the issue and, if not called, are subject on the going concern basis.
The directors are of the opinion, to a step up in coupon of one and a half times the initial based on their knowledge of the company, key processes in credit spread above the three month euro-zone interbank operation and specific enquiries, that adequate resources exist offered rate.
The issue is expected to be signed on 22 June to support the company on a going concern basis over the 2005.
The capital will be used to augment the group's capital next year.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Under the terms of the issue there are provisions for the records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Preferred Securities to be substituted for Preference Shares the financial position of the company and to enable them to issued by the company if Investec plc's capital ratios fall below ensure that the financial statements comply with the the minimum level permitted by the Regulator.
They are also responsible for create this class of shares will be proposed at the forthcoming safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking Annual General Meeting.
The issuer has the option not to pay reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and a distribution when it falls due but this would then prevent the other irregularities.
payment of Ordinary dividends by the company.
Signed on behalf of the board Richard Vardy Selwyn Noik Stephen Koseff Bernard Kantor Company Secretary Company Secretary Chief Executive Officer Managing Director Investec plc Investec Limited 17 June 2005 17 June 2005
