Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Company Accounts Accounting Policies Basis of Preparation The Board has decided that the continued use of UK GAAP at the entity level is a more appropriate method of accounting rather than the application of IFRS as required to be used for the preparation of the Group consolidated accounts These separate entity level accounts have been produced on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards.
A summary of the principal accounting policies is set out below.
Change in accounting policy The Company has adopted Financial Reporting Standard 21 Events after the Balance Sheet Date.
The adoption of FRS21 represents a change in accounting policy and the comparative financial information has been restated accordingly.
Details of the 108 effect of these changes is given in note a on page 109.
The Company has also adopted the following standards: FRS 23 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Measurement The adoption of FRS 23, FRS 25 and FRS 26 has not resulted in any change in presentation reclassification or remeasurement and accordingly, there is no impact on the profit and loss and balance sheet.
Foreign Currencies Foreign currency transactions are translated into sterling using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on translation are taken directly to the profit and loss account to the extent that the company is exposed to exchange differences arising on such assets and liabilities.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the result for the year at current rates of tax and takes into account deferred tax.
Full provision for deferred tax, without discounting, is made for all timing differences that have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Consolidated Accounts Separate consolidated accounts have been prepared and are presented on pages 45 to 103.
Subsidiary and associated undertakings Investments in subsidiary and associated undertakings are stated in the balance sheet of the Company at cost less any provisions for permanent diminution in value.
Investment income Interest on deposits and interest-bearing investments is credited as it is earned.
