Company Accounts Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts for the year ended 31st December 2005 a. Restatement of Comparatives It has been practice under UK GAAP, until 1st January 2005, for companies to charge dividends, both paid and proposed, to the profit and loss account and to show unpaid dividends as a liability on the balance sheet in advance of the dividend being approved by the Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Similarly dividends from subsidiary undertakings have been accrued as receivable at the balance sheet date.
"However, with effect from accounting periods beginning on or after 1st January 2005 companies must comply with FRS 21 ""Events after the Balance Sheet Date""."
Consequently dividends cannot now be provided in the year-end balance sheet, since at that date, the dividend does not represent a liability until declared and approved at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company balance sheet at 31st December 2004 has therefore been restated to exclude accrued dividends payable of 24,161k and dividends receivable of 56,500k.
This treatment is consistent with the application of IAS 10 in the consolidated Group accounts.
Also consistent with IFRS, dividends to shareholders are no longer charged to the Profit and Loss account but are reflected as a reduction in Shareholders Funds once declared and approved or paid in the case of interim dividends.
Consequently the 2004 dividend charge of 109 41,638k has been reversed in the Profit and Loss Account, and the dividend income has been reduced by 8,200k due to the change in timing in respect of the recognition of dividends receivable.
Profit and Loss Account The Company has taken advantage of the exception contained within Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its own profit and loss account and there are no recognised gains or losses other than the profit for the year.
The dividend proposed will not be accounted for until it has been approved at the Annual General Meeting.
