Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Financial Statements Accounting Policies Basis of preparation The Group consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale investments and derivative financial instruments and using accounting policies and presentation, which comply with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as required by IAS 1.
Accounting policies and first time adoption of IFRS The financial reporting requirements for listed groups have changed since the publication of the Groups last annual accounts, for the year ended 31st December 2004.
The change is due to the European Commission EC regulation that all listed groups publish their consolidated results under IFRS, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB but as adopted by companies in the European Union EU.
The accounting policies and methods of computation adopted in these statements differ from those disclosed previously in the 50 consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2004.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2004 conformed with the applicable UK accounting standards and were prepared under the historical cost convention, as required by the Companies Act 1985.
The reconciliation of equity at 1st January 2004 and 31st December 2004 and the profit and loss for the year then ended under the applicable UK accounting standards, to the equity and profit and loss under IFRS was published in the Restatement of 2004 Interim and Full Year Accounts on 7th July 2005.
Notes 34 and 35 on pages 98 to 102 set out the reconciliation of shareholders' funds at 31st December 2004 and profit before tax for the year then ended under the applicable UK accounting standards, to that under IFRS.
Except as noted below, the adoption of IFRS has not resulted in substantial changes to the Groups accounting policies for the year under review.
The adoption of IAS 10, 28, 32, 36, 38, 39, IFRS 2 and 3 resulted in changes to the Groups accounting policies as follows: The adoption of IAS 10 has eliminated the charge for dividends payable from the Income Statement and only dividends approved by the Balance Sheet date are taken into account.
The adoption of IAS 28 requires the presentation of the Groups share of results from associates to be stated after tax and minority interests.
Previously the Groups share of the associate tax and minority interest charges was included under these headings in the Group income statement.
In addition, the adoption of IAS 28 has resulted in the elimination of the Groups negative carrying value in its French associate Courcelles Participations.
The adoption of IAS 32 and 39 has resulted in available-for-sale financial assets being recognised at a fair value and the inclusion of the fair values in respect of derivative financial instruments.
The adoption of IFRS 2 has resulted in a change of accounting policy for share-based payments.
Until 31st December 2004, the provision of Executive Share Option Schemes and Sharesave Schemes to employees did not result in a charge to the income statement.
Adoption of the standard required a retrospective application for all equity instruments granted after 7th November 2002 and not vested by 1st January 2004.
The accounting charge in respect of Restricted Share Schemes operated by the Group was unaffected by the adoption of IFRS 2.
The adoption of IFRS 3, IAS 36 and IAS 38 resulted in a change in the accounting policy for goodwill.
Until 31st December 2004, goodwill was: amortised on a straight line basis over its expected economic life, subject to a maximum of 20 years: and assessed for an indication of impairment at each balance sheet date.
In accordance with the provisions of IFRS 3: the Group ceased amortisation of goodwill from 1st January 2004. accumulated amortisation as at 31st December 2003 has been transferred to cost with the effect that the cost of goodwill at 1st January 2004 is restated on a net basis.
from the 1st January 2004, goodwill is tested annually for impairment, as well as when there are indications of impairment.
Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 In addition, the adoption of IFRS 3 and IAS 38 requires that the Group recognise as intangible assets, separately from goodwill, any assets acquired through a business combination that meet the criteria for an intangible asset as defined in IAS 38.
Any intangible asset recognised in this way is amortised to the income statement over its expected economic life.
This is applicable for acquisitions completed after 1st January 2004.
The Group has taken advantage of certain exemptions allowed in IFRS 1 as follows: The recording of net exchange differences into the Exchange Reserve required by IAS 21 has been applied prospectively from 1st January 2004: all exchange differences arising prior to that date remain within retained earnings.
IAS 32 and 39 have been applied on a prospective basis from 1st January 2005: as a consequence, no restatement of the 2004 results has been made in respect of these standards.
The impact of adoption on the opening balance sheet at 1st January 2005 has been presented in note 1 on page 59.
51 Accounting for share-based payments as required by IFRS 2 has been applied prospectively from 1st January 2004: no restatement has been made for any cost that would have arisen prior to that date.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
The profits and losses of subsidiary undertakings are consolidated as from the effective date of acquisition or to the effective date of disposal.
a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain economic benefits and generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The Group uses the purchase method of accounting to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured, as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
b Associates Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in associates includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition.
The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or losses are recognised in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves are recognised in reserves.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates.
Accounting policies of associates have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Financial Statements Accounting Policies Segment reporting A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
A geographical segment is engaged in providing services within a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
Foreign currencies Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Parent Companys functional and presentation currency.
52 Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at yearend exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities held at fair value through profit or loss, are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss.
Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities classified as available-for-sale financial assets, are included in the fair value reserve in equity.
Group companies The results and financial position of all the Group entities none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: ii income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions : and iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders equity.
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Goodwill arising on consolidation Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is shown separately on the Balance Sheet.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in investments in associates.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions completed prior to 1st January 1998 is written off directly to reserves.
Following the adoption of IFRS this goodwill remains written off to reserves and no adjustment would be made on subsequent disposal.
For acquisitions completed on or after 1st January 1998 and before 1st January 2004, goodwill is stated on the Balance Sheet at its previously amortised net book value.
For acquisitions completed on or after 1st January 2004, goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Cash generating units represent the lowest level of geographical and business segment combinations that the Group uses for internal reporting purposes.
Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Intangible assets Computer software Acquired computer software licenses are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Costs associated with developing or maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Direct costs include the software development employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives not exceeding three years.
Capitalised employment contract payments The Group makes payments to certain key employees in recognition of them signing a long-term employment contact, usually three 53 to five years.
These payments are capitalised as intangible assets since legal rights protect the expected benefits that the Group will derive from the contracts.
The asset recognised is then amortised over the duration of the underlying contract.
Other For acquisitions completed after 1st January 2004 the business acquired is reviewed to identify assets that meet the definition of an intangible asset per IAS 38.
Examples of such assets include customer contracts and expectations of business renewal.
These assets are valued on the basis of the present value of future cash flows and are amortised to the income statement over the life of the contract or their estimated economic life.
The current maximum estimated economic life is ten years.
Impairment of assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Property, plant and equipment Assets are stated at their net book value historical cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of such assets over their estimated useful lives.
The principal rates of depreciation are as follows: Freehold land and buildings: between 0% and 2% per annum.
Leasehold improvements: between 10% and 20% per annum or over the life of the lease.
Furniture and office equipment: between 10% and 20% per annum.
Computer hardware: between 20% and 100% per annum.
Motor vehicles: between 25% and 33 1 3% per annum.
Available-for-sale financial assets Prior to 1st January 2005, available for sale financial assets were categorised according to their nature into one of two categories: 1.
Other investments, which included unlisted securities and investments held for strategic purposes, were held at cost less any provision for permanent diminution of value.
Investments and deposits, which consist mainly of Bonds, Commercial Paper and Fixed Deposits - these are non-derivatives that were included in non-current assets unless there was an intention to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Purchases and sales of investments were recognised on trade-date the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Investments were recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss.
Investments were fide-recognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments had expired or had been transferred and the Group had transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Subsequent to 1st January 2005, following the adoption of IAS 39, Other investments are included at fair value unless it is not possible, due to their nature, to determine a fair value.
In these circumstances they continue to be held at cost less any provision for impairment.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Financial Statements Accounting Policies Available-for-sale financial assets are carried at fair value.
Any subsequent unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value are recognised in equity.
When available-for-sale investments are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are recognised in the income statement together with the underlying gain or loss on the transaction.
Interest on deposits and interest-bearing investments is credited as it is earned.
Employee benefit trust The Group operates a deferred compensation scheme by way of a discretionary, employee benefit trust.
Investments held by this scheme, other than own shares, are classified as fixed assets on the balance sheets and charged to the consolidated income statement over the vesting periods of the award.
Insurance broking debtors and creditors Insurance brokers act as agents in placing the insurable risks of their clients with insurers and, as such, are not liable as principals 54 for amounts arising from such transactions.
In recognition of this relationship, debtors from insurance broking transactions are not included as an asset of the Group.
Other than the receivable for fees and commissions earned on a transaction, no recognition of the insurance transaction occurs until the Group receives cash in respect of premiums or claims, at which time a corresponding liability is established in favour of the insurer or the client.
In certain circumstances, the Group advances premiums, refunds or claims to insurance underwriters or clients prior to collection.
These advances are reflected in the consolidated balance sheet as part of trade receivables.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Borrowings Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Borrowings are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Deferred income tax The charge for taxation is based on the result for the year at current rates of tax and takes into account deferred tax.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the deferred income tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not recognised.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to equity in respect of any item similarly charged or credited directly to equity.
Subsequent recognition of the deferred gain or loss in the consolidated income statement is accompanied by the corresponding deferred tax.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the Group controls the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Employee benefits Pension costs The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes and defined contribution pension schemes.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Full actuarial valuations of the Groups main defined benefit schemes are carried out at least every three years.
A qualified independent actuary updates these valuations to 31st December each year.
For the purposes of these annual updates, scheme assets are included at market value and scheme liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method: these liabilities are discounted at the current rate of return on an AA corporate bond of equivalent currency and term.
The defined benefit surplus or deficit is included on the Groups balance sheet.
Surpluses are included only to the extent that they are recoverable through reduced contributions in the future or through refunds from the schemes.
The current service cost and any past service costs are included in the income statement within salaries and associated expenses and the expected return on the schemes assets, net of the impact of the unwinding of the discount on scheme liabilities, is included within finance costs.
Actuarial gains and losses, including differences between the expected and actual return on scheme assets, are recognised through the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has 55 no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
The costs of the Groups defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the income statement in the period in which they fall due.
Share-based compensation The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, profitability and revenue growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
Provisions for liabilities and charges The Group discounts certain provisions to their present value.
The unwinding of the provision discounting is included as an interest charge within finance costs in the income statement.
A provision is recognised where there is a present obligation, whether legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for which it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reasonable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Fees and commissions Fees and commissions are derived from two principal sources: Insurance broking Income relating to insurance broking is brought into account at the later of, the policy inception date or when the policy placement has been completed and confirmed.
Where there is an expectation of future servicing requirements an element of income relating to the policy is deferred to cover the associated contractual obligation.
Other services Fees and other income receivable are recognised in the period to which they relate and when they can be measured with reasonable certainty.
Non-recurring items Items of a non-recurring and material nature are charged or credited to operating profit and are classified to the appropriate income statement headings.
To assist in the analysis and understanding of the underlying trading position of the Group these items are summarised within the Operating Profit, note 4 on page 64, under the heading of exceptional items.
Leased assets Assets held under leasing agreements, which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group are included in property, plant and equipment.
The capital elements of the related lease obligations are included in liabilities.
The interest elements of the lease obligations are charged to the income statement over the period of the lease term.
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Financial Statements Accounting Policies Derivative Financial Instruments The Group only enters into derivative financial instruments in order to hedge underlying exposures.
Prior to 1st January 2005, forward rate agreements, interest rate swaps and options were held off balance sheet and receipts and payments on settlement of these instruments were recognised as adjustments to investment income on an accruals basis over the life of the hedge.
Changes to the fair value of foreign exchange contract held as a hedge against transactional exposure were not recognised until the maturity of the underlying contract.
Subsequent to 1st January 2005, derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss is dependent on the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either a hedge of the fair value 56 of a recognised asset or liability fair value hedge, or a hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the foreign currency risk on a firm commitment cash flow hedge, or a hedge of a net investment in a foreign entity.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges and that are highly effective, are recorded in the consolidated income statement, along with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges and that are highly effective, are recognised in hedging reserves.
Where the forecasted transaction or firm commitment results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or of a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in hedging reserves are transferred from hedging reserves and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Otherwise, amounts deferred in hedging reserves are transferred to the consolidated income statement and classified as income or expense in the same periods during which the hedged firm commitment or forecasted transaction affects the consolidated income statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in hedging reserves at that time remains in the hedging reserves and is recognised when the committed or forecasted transaction ultimately is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
When a committed or forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in hedging reserves is immediately transferred to the consolidated income statement.
Dividend distribution Dividends proposed or declared after the balance sheet date are not recognised as a liability at the balance sheet date.
Final dividends are recognised as a charge to equity once approved and interim dividends are charged once paid.
Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements Estimates and judgements used in preparing the financial statements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant effect on the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are discussed below.
a Property, plant and equipment Assets are carried at historical cost less depreciation calculated to write off the cost of such assets over their estimated useful lives.
Management determines the estimated useful lives and related depreciation charges at acquisition.
The estimated useful life is reviewed annually and the depreciation charge is revised where useful lives are subsequently found to be different to those previously estimated.
b Impairment of assets The Group tests annually whether goodwill and other assets that have indefinite useful lives suffered any impairment.
Other assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an asset or a cash-generating unit is determined based on value-in-use calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
This determination requires significant judgement.
In making this judgement, the Group evaluates, among other factors, the duration and extent to which the fair value of an investment is less than its cost: and the financial health of and near-term business outlook for the investment, including factors such as industry and sector performance, changes in regional economies and operational and financing cash flow.
Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 c Income taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
d Pension obligations The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions.
The assumptions used in determining the net cost income for pensions include the expected long-term rate of return on the relevant plans assets and the discount rate.
Any changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying amount of pension obligations.
57 The expected return on plan assets assumption is determined on a uniform basis, taking into consideration long-term historical returns, asset allocation and future estimates of long-term investment returns.
The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year.
This is the interest rate that should be used to determine the present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the pension obligations.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
Other key assumptions for pension obligations are based in part on current market conditions.
e Errors and omissions liability During the ordinary course of business the Group can be subject to claims for errors and omissions made in connection with its broking activities.
A balance sheet provision is established in respect of such claims when it is probable that the liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated.
The Group analyses its litigation exposures based on available information, including external legal consultation where appropriate, to assess its potential liability.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Financial Statements Accounting Policies Future developments The following pronouncements may be relevant to the Group but were not effective at 31st December 2005 and have not been applied in preparing these financial statements.
Pronouncement Nature of change Effective date IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Consolidates the current financial instruments disclosures into a Annual periods beginning on or single standard and requires more detailed qualitative disclosures about after 1st January 2007 exposure to risk arising from financial instruments.
Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instrument: Requires issued financial guarantee contracts to be accounted for as Annual periods beginning on or Recognition and Measurement financial instruments.
after 1st January 2006 58 Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instrument: Restricts the fair value option for financial instruments to certain situations, Annual periods beginning on or Recognition and Measurement including when doing so results in more relevant information because it after 1st January 2006 The Fair Value Option eliminates or reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency or where a group of financial instruments is managed and evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented strategy.
Amendments to IAS 1 Introduces additional disclosures of the objectives, policies and processes Annual periods beginning on or Presentation of Financial Statement for managing capital, quantitative data about what the entity regards as after 1st January 2007 Capital Disclosures capital and compliance with capital requirements IFRIC Interpretation 4 Determining Whether Interpretation provides guidance for determining whether the arrangements Annual periods beginning on or an Arrangement Contains a Lease comprising transactions that do not take the legal form of a lease but after 1st January 2006 convey a right to use an asset contains leases that should be separately accounted for.
The Group is assessing the full impact of these accounting changes: and to the extent they may be applicable, none of these pronouncements are expected to cause any material adjustments to the financial statements.
