Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the seventy-sixth purchases within the meaning of Section 163 Annual General Meeting of JPMorgan Fleming of the Act of its issued ordinary shares of 25p Continental European Investment Trust plc will be each in the capital of the Company held at 10 Aldermanbury, London EC2V 7RF on PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT Thursday 21st July 2005 at 12.00 noon for the i the maximum number of ordinary shares following purposes.
hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 7,527,903 or, if less, that number of 1 To receive the Directors Report, the Annual ordinary shares which is equal to 14.99% Accounts and the Auditors Report for the year of the Companys issued share capital as ended 31st March 2005. at the date of the passing of this 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report resolution: for the year ended 31st March 2005. ii the minimum price which may be paid for 3 To declare a dividend on the ordinary shares.
an ordinary share shall be 25p: 4 To re-elect Stephen Russell a Director of the iii the maximum price which may be paid for Company.
an ordinary share shall be an amount 5 To re-elect Alexander Zagoreos a Director of the equal to 105 per cent of the average of Company.
the middle market quotations for an 6 To re-elect Andrew Murison a Director of the ordinary share taken from and calculated Company.
by reference to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five 7 To re-elect Ferdinand Verdonck a Director of the business days immediately preceding the Company.
day on which the ordinary share is 8 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors to purchased: the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration for the ensuing iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be year.
made in the market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per Special Business ordinary share as determined by the To consider the following resolutions: Directors : Authority to re-purchase shares Special v the authority hereby conferred shall Resolution expire on 20th January 2007 unless the 9 THAT the Company be generally and subject as authority is renewed at the Companys hereinafter appears unconditionally authorised Annual General Meeting in 2006 or at any in accordance with Section 166 of the other general meeting prior to such time: Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market and 30 JPMorgan Fleming Continental European Notes vi the Company may make a contract to 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the above purchase ordinary shares under the meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to authority hereby conferred prior to the attend and on a poll vote on their behalf.
A proxy expiry of such authority and may make a need not be a member of the Company.
The lodging of a form of proxy does not prevent a member from purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to attending and voting if he so wishes.
any such contract notwithstanding such 2 Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must expiry.
be lodged at the Companys Registrar not less than Increase in Directors fees Ordinary 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
Resolution: 3 To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company 10 THAT pursuant to Article 77 of the Articles of of the number of votes they may cast, members Association of the Company, the Directors be must be entered on the Companys register of entitled to receive for the year commencing 1st members 48 hours before the meeting the specified time.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more April 2005, and for each succeeding year until than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to otherwise resolved, remuneration of 25,000 the original meeting, that time will also apply for the for the Chairman, 16,000 for the Audit purpose of determining the entitlement of members Committee Chairman and 14,000 for each to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at other Director.
If however the meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, By order of the Board members must be entered on the Companys register of members at the time which is 48 hours before the JM Latter, for and on behalf of time fixed for the adjourned meeting or, if the JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at Secretary.
the time specified in that notice.
9th June 2005 4 Entry to the above Meeting will be restricted to shareholders, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
Representatives of shareholders which are corporations attending the meeting should produce evidence of their appointment by an instrument executed in accordance with Section 346A of the Companies Act 1985 or signed on behalf of the corporation by a duly authorised officer or agent.
5 The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in the share capital of the Company is available for inspection at the Companys registered office during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excepted.
It will also be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
6 No Director has any contract of service with the Company.
JPMorgan Fleming Continental European 31 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Electronic appointment CREST members CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos CREST Manual.
The CREST message must be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID7RA01 by not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or the adjourned meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the CREST message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the CREST message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s, should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member s is are a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that the CREST sponsor or voting service provider takes such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a CREST message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s is are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
