Notice of Annual General Meeting ii the minimum price which may be paid for Notice is hereby given that the seventy eighth an ordinary share shall be 25p: Annual General Meeting of JPMorgan Fleming Japanese Investment Trust plc will be held at iii the maximum price which may be paid for JPMorgans offices at 60 Vicoria Embankment, an ordinary share shall be an amount London, EC4Y 0JP on Friday 16th December equal to 105 per cent of the average of 2005 at 2.00pm for the following purposes: the middle market quotations for an ordinary share taken from and calculated 1 To receive the Directors Report & Accounts by reference to the London Stock and the Auditors Report for the year ended Exchange Daily Official List for the five 30th September 2005. business days immediately preceding the 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report day on which the share is purchased: for the year ended 30th September 2005. iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be 3 To re-elect Blaise Hardman a Director of the made in the market for cash at prices Company.
below the prevailing net asset value per 4 To re-elect Jeremy Paulson-Ellis a Director of the ordinary share as determined by the Company.
Directors : 5 To re-appoint Begbies Everett Chettle as v the authority hereby conferred shall expire auditors to the Company and to authorise the on 15th June 2007 unless the authority is Directors to determine their remuneration.
renewed at the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2005 or at any other general Special Business meeting prior to such time: and To consider the following resolution which will be vi the Company may make a contract to proposed as a Special Resolution: purchase ordinary shares under the Authority to repurchase shares authority hereby conferred prior to the 6 THAT the Company be generally and, subject as expiry of such authority and may make a hereinafter appears, unconditionally authorised purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to in accordance with Section 166 of the any such contract notwithstanding such Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market expiry.
purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the Act of its issued ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company By order of the Board AK Norman, for and on behalf of PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, i the maximum number of ordinary shares Secretary hereby authorised to be purchased shall 10th November 2005 be 27,851,707 or, if less, that number of shares which is equal to 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital as at the date of the passing of this Resolution: JPMorgan Fleming Japanese 25 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes Electronic appointment CREST members 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the above CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment attend and on a poll vote on their behalf.
A proxy service may do so for the Meeting and any need not be a member of the Company.
The lodging adjournment s thereof by using the procedures of a form of proxy does not prevent a member from described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal attending and voting if they so wish.
members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service 2 Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must provider s should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting be lodged at the office of the Companys Registrar service provider s who will be able to take the not less than 48 hours before the time of the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made using the CREST 3 To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a for the purpose of the determination by the Company CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly of the number of votes they may cast, members authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos CREST must be entered on the Companys register of Manual.
The CREST message must be transmitted so as members 48 hours before the meeting the specified to be received by the issuers agent ID7RA01 by not time.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to holding of the meeting or the adjourned meeting.
For this the original meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time purpose of determining the entitlement of members as determined by the timestamp applied to the CREST to attend and vote and for the purpose of message by the CREST Applications Host from which the determining the number of votes they may cast at issuers agent is able to retrieve the CREST message by the adjourned meeting.
If however the meeting is enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, After this time any change of instructions to proxies members must be entered on the Companys register appointed through CREST should be communicated to of members at the time which is 48 hours before the the appointee through other means.
time fixed for the adjourned meeting or, if the CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at sponsors or voting service provider s, should note that the time specified in that notice.
CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in 4 Entry to the above meeting will be restricted to CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system shareholders, with guests admitted only by prior timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to arrangement.
the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint or, if the CREST member s is are a CREST personal an individual to act as its representative and to vote member or sponsored member or has appointed a in person at the meeting.
The appointment must voting service provider s, to procure that the CREST comply with section 375 of the Companies Act 1985. sponsor or voting service provider takes such action as The representative should bring to the meeting shall be necessary to ensure that a CREST message is evidence of his or her appointment, including any transmitted by means of the CREST system by any authority under which it is signed, unless previously particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, given to the Companys registrars.
where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service 5 The register of interests of the Directors and provider s is are referred, in particular, to those sections connected persons in the share capital of the of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of Company is available for inspection at the Companys the CREST system and timings.
registered office during usual business hours on any The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy weekday Saturdays and public holidays excepted.
It Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation will also be available for inspection at the Annual 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations General Meeting.
6 No Director has any contract of service with the Company.
