Notice of Meeting PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT Notice is hereby given that the one hundred i the maximum number of ordinary shares and eighteenth Annual General Meeting of hereby authorised to be purchased shall JPMorgan Fleming Overseas Investment Trust be 10,454,335 or if less, that number of plc will be held at The Armourers Hall, 81 ordinary shares which is equal to 14.99 Coleman Street, London EC2R 5BJ on per cent of the Companys issued share Wednesday 30th November 2005 at 12.00 capital as at the date of the passing of noon for the following purposes: this Resolution: ii the minimum price which may be paid 1 To receive the Directors Report, the Annual for an ordinary share will be 25 pence: Accounts and the Auditors Report for the year ended 30th June 2005. iii the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be an amount 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report equal to 105 per cent of the average of for the year ended 30th June 2005. the middle market quotations for an 3 To re-elect Mr John Rennocks as a Director of ordinary share taken from and the Company.
calculated by reference to the London 4 To re-elect Mr Simon Davies as a Director of the Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the Company.
five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is 5 To declare a final dividend of 8.0p per ordinary purchased: share.
iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be 6 To re-appoint  LLP as made in the market for cash at prices Auditor to the Company and to authorise the below the prevailing estimated net asset Directors to determine their remuneration.
value per ordinary share as determined Special Business by the Directors : To consider the following resolution which will v the authority hereby conferred shall be proposed as a Special Resolution: expire on 29th May 2007, unless the Authority to repurchase the Companys shares authority is renewed at the Companys 7 THAT the Company be generally and, subject as Annual General Meeting in 2006 or at hereinafter appears, unconditionally any other general meeting prior to such authorised in accordance with Section 166 of time: and the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make vi the Company may make a contract to market purchases within the meaning of purchase ordinary shares under the Section 163 of the Act of its issued ordinary authority hereby conferred prior to the shares of 25 pence each in the capital of the expiry of such authority and may make a Company purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract notwithstanding such expiry.
28 JPMorgan Fleming Overseas To consider the following resolution which will To consider the following resolution which will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution: be proposed as an Special Resolution: Authority to allot new ordinary shares Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on 8 THAT the Directors of the Company be and they allotment of new ordinary shares are hereby generally and unconditionally 9 THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 8 set authorised, in substitution of any authorities out above, the Directors of the Company be previously granted to the Directors, pursuant and they are hereby empowered pursuant to to Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Section 95 of the Act to allot equity securities Act to exercise all the powers for the Company within the meaning of Section 94 of the Act to allot relevant securities within the meaning pursuant to the authority conferred by of Section 80 of the Act up to an aggregate Resolution 8 as if Section 89 1 of the Act did nominal amount of 871,775, representing not apply to any such allotment, provided that approximately 5% of the Companys issued this power shall be limited to the allotment of ordinary share capital as at the date of the equity securities for cash up to an aggregate passing of this resolution provided that this nominal amount of 871,775, representing authority shall expire on 29th November 2010, approximately 5% of the total ordinary share save that the Company may before such expiry capital as at the date of the passing of this make offers, agreements or arrangements resolution at a price of not less than the Net which would or might require relevant Asset Value per share and shall expire on 30th securities to be allotted after such expiry and November 2010, save that the Company may so that the Directors of the Company may allot before such expiry make offers, agreements or relevant securities in pursuance of such offers, arrangements which would or might require agreements or arrangements as if the authority equity securities to be allotted after such conferred hereby had not expired.
expiry and so that the Directors of the Company may allot equity securities in pursuant of such offers, agreements or arrangements as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
By order of the Board Philip Jones, for and on behalf of JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, Secretary 26th September 2005 JPMorgan Fleming Overseas 29 Notice of Meeting continued Electronic appointment CREST members Notes CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the above by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to service may do so for the Meeting and any attend and on a poll vote on their behalf.
A proxy adjournment s thereof by using the procedures need not be a member of the Company.
The lodging described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal of a form of proxy does not prevent a member from members or other CREST sponsored members, and those attending and voting if he so wishes.
CREST members who have appointed a voting service 2 Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must provider s should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting be lodged at the Companys Registrar not less than service provider s who will be able to take the 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
appropriate action on their behalf.
3 To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and In order for a proxy appointment made using the CREST for the purpose of the determination by the Company service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a of the number of votes they may cast, members CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly must be entered on the Companys register of authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos CREST members 48 hours before the meeting the specified Manual.
The CREST message must be transmitted so as time.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more to be received by the issuers agent ID7RA01 by not than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the the original meeting, that time will also apply for the holding of the meeting or the adjourned meeting.
For this purpose of determining the entitlement of members purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time to attend and vote and for the purpose of as determined by the timestamp applied to the CREST determining the number of votes they may cast at message by the CREST Applications Host from which the the adjourned meeting.
If however the meeting is issuers agent is able to retrieve the CREST message by adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
members must be entered on the Companys register After this time any change of instructions to proxies of members at the time which is 48 hours before the appointed through CREST should be communicated to time fixed for the adjourned meeting or, if the the appointee through other means.
Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST the time specified in that notice.
sponsors or voting service provider s, should note that 4 Entry to the above Meeting will be restricted to CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in shareholders, with guests admitted only by prior CREST for any particular messages.
timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take an individual to act as its representative and to vote or, if the CREST member s is are a CREST personal in person at the meeting.
The appointment must member or sponsored member or has appointed a comply with section 375 of the Companies Act 1985. voting service provider s, to procure that the CREST The representative should bring to the meeting sponsor or voting service provider takes such action as evidence of his or her appointment, including any shall be necessary to ensure that a CREST message is authority under which it is signed, unless previously transmitted by means of the CREST system by any given to the Companys registrars.
In this connection, CREST members and, 5 The register of interests of the Directors and where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service connected persons in the share capital of the provider s is are referred, in particular, to those sections Company is available for inspection at the Companys of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of registered office during usual business hours on any the CREST system and timings.
weekday Saturdays and public holidays excepted.
It The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy will also be available for inspection at the Annual Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation General Meeting.
35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
6 No Director has any contract of service with the Company.
