Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT nineteenth Annual General Meeting of JPMorgan i the maximum number of Shares hereby Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc will be authorised to be purchased shall be held at Trinity House, Tower Hill, London EC3N 19,910,713 or if less, that number of 4DH at 9.30 a. m. on Thursday 19th May 2005 for shares which is equal to 14.99% of the the following purposes.
Companys issued share capital as at the date of the passing of this 1 To receive and adopt the Directors Report, Resolution: the Annual Accounts and the Auditors ii the minimum price which may be paid Report for the year ended 31st January for a Share shall be 25p: 2005. iii the maximum price which may be paid 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration for a Share shall be an amount equal to Report for the year ended 31st January 105 per cent of the average of the 2005. middle market quotations for a Share 3 To re-elect Lord Rothermere a Director of the taken from and calculated by reference Company.
to the London Stock Exchange Daily 4 To re-elect Mr SL Keswick a Director of the Official List for the five business days Company.
immediately preceding the day on 5 To re-appoint  LLP which the Share is purchased: as auditors to the Company and to iv any purchase of Shares will be made in authorise the Directors to determine their the market for cash at prices below the remuneration.
prevailing net asset value per Share as Special Business: determined by the Directors : To consider the following resolution which v the authority hereby conferred shall will be proposed as a special resolution: expire at the earlier of 18th November Authority to repurchase the Companys 2006 or at the conclusion of the shares Companys Annual General Meeting in 6 THAT the Company be generally and subject 2006 unless the authority is renewed as hereinafter appears unconditionally prior to such time: and authorised in accordance with Section 166 of vi the Company may make a contract to the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make purchase Shares under the authority market purchases within the meaning of hereby conferred prior to the expiry of Section 163 of the Act of its issued Shares of such authority and may make a 25p each in the capital of the Company.
purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract notwithstanding such expiry.
By order of the Board J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited, Secretary 12th April 2005 JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile 29 Notice of Meeting continued Notes 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the above meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and on a poll vote on their behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
The lodging of a form of proxy does not prevent a member from attending and voting if he so wishes.
2 Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged at the Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
3 To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members 48 hours before the meeting the specified time.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
If however the meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
4 Entry to the above Meeting will be restricted to shareholders, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
Representatives of shareholders which are corporations attending the meeting should produce evidence of their appointment by an instrument executed in accordance with Section 346A of the UK Companies Act 1985 or signed on behalf of the corporation by a duly authorised officer or agent.
5 The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in the share capital of the Company is available for inspection at the Companys registered office during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excepted.
It will also be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
6 No Director has any contract of service with the Company.
