Notes 1 Basis of preparation The Group has adopted International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the EU in its consolidated financial statements for accounting periods from 1 January 2005.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 have been prepared in accordance with all adopted IFRSs including the interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
These are the Groups first consolidated financial statements under IFRS and IFRS 1First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards has been applied see Note 30.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practices UK GAAP.
These are presented on pages 36 to 41.
In preparing the financial statements the Group has decided to adopt early the amendment issued in December 2004 to International Accounting Standard IAS 19 Employee Benefits Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group Plans and Disclosure.
With effect from 1 January 2005 the Group adopted IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The effect of adopting IAS 39 at 1 January 2005 is presented as a movement in the Groups consolidated statement of recognised income and expense for 2005.
The financial information for the year ended 31 December 2004 has been prepared on the same basis with the exception of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 which have been applied from 1 January 2005.
The comparative figures for financial assets and liabilities are accounted for under UK GAAP.
In general, as a first time adopter of IFRS, the Group has applied the standards retrospectively.
However there are a number of exceptions available under IFRS 1 and details of these are set out in Note 30.
Some adjustments, none of which materially impact the previously published IFRS information, have been made to reflect reclassifications and interpretations of accounting standards.
2 Accounting policies a Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are included in the financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of the acquisition is measured as the fair value of the consideration plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at fair value at the acquisition date.
The excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
ii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expense arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
b Foreign currency i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
ii Financial statements of foreign operations Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill, intangibles and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses of foreign operations are translated at average exchange rates.
Exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised in the translation reserve.
iii Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations and related hedges are taken to the translation reserve and released to the income statement on disposal.
In respect of all foreign operations, differences that have arisen since 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are presented as a separate component of equity.
c Financial instruments The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004 have been prepared using the accounting policies previously applied for financial instruments under UK GAAP as the Group has adopted the IFRS 1 exemption not to apply IAS 32 and IAS 39 to the comparative period.
Under UK GAAP forward foreign exchange contracts hedging transaction exposures were revalued at year end exchange rates with net unrealised gains and losses being deferred to match the maturity of the underlying exposure.
The accounting policies described below for financial instruments are applicable from 1 January 2005.
The effect of adopting these standards was to recognise a net derivative liability of 1.3m in the opening balance sheet.
Under IAS 39, financial instruments are initially measured at fair value with subsequent measurement depending upon the classification of the instrument.
Financial assets classified as available for sale and financial assets or liabilities classified as at fair value through profit or loss including derivatives are held at fair value.
Other financial assets and liabilities are held at amortised cost, unless they are in a fair value hedging relationship.
Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge exposures to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
8 Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2005
