Notes to the Company Financial Statements 1 Basis of preparation Bunzl plcs Company balance sheet has been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain fixed assets and certain forward foreign exchange contracts and has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable UK accounting standards.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Company balance sheet.
Under Section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
Under FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that the Group includes the Company in its own published consolidated financial statements.
2 Accounting policies In these financial statements, the following new standards have been adopted for the first time: FRS 20 Share based payments and FRS 21 Events after the balance sheet date.
The effect of the adoption of FRS 20 and FRS 21 is set out in Note 10.
FRS 23 The effect of changes on foreign exchange rates sets out additional guidance on the translation method for transactions in foreign currencies and on determining the functional and presentation currencies.
The adoption of FRS 23 had no effect on the Companys profit or net assets.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation not to prepare a financial instruments note as the information is available in the published financial statements of the Group.
The corresponding amounts in these financial statements are restated in accordance with the new policies.
FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Measurement sets out the requirements for measurement recognition and derecognition of financial instruments.
The adoption of FRS 26 has had no effect on the Companys profit or net assets.
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
FRS 28 Corresponding amounts has no material effect as it imposes the same requirements previously required by the Companies Act 1985. a Investments in subsidiary undertakings Investments in subsidiary undertakings are held at cost less any provision for impairment.
b Investment in own shares The cost of shares held either directly treasury shares or indirectly ESOP trust is deducted from shareholders funds.
c Share based payments The Company operates equity settled, share based compensation plans.
The total expected expense based on the fair value of options and other share based incentives using a valuation model is calculated at the date of grant and spread over the expected vesting period.
d Tangible fixed assets Until 31 December 1999 land and buildings were revalued periodically.
As permitted under FRS 15, the valuations of land and buildings have not been and will not be updated.
All other assets are included at historical cost, less accumulated depreciation.
The profit or loss on sale of tangible fixed assets is calculated by reference to the carrying values of the assets.
The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are periodically reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
e Depreciation Tangible fixed assets are depreciated over their estimated remaining useful lives at the following annual rates applied to book value less estimated residual value: Buildings 2% or life of lease if shorter Plant and machinery 10 20% Fixtures, fittings and equipment 10 33% Freehold land Not depreciated Useful lives are reviewed annually.
f Leases Where the Company has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset subject to a lease, the lease is treated as a finance lease.
Future installments payable under finance leases, net of finance charges, are included in creditors with the corresponding asset value treated as a tangible fixed asset.
All other leases are treated as operating leases and the rentals are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis.
g Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred due to timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19 Deferred Tax.
h Pensions As the Company is unable to identify its share of the scheme assets and liabilities on a consistent and reasonable basis, the Company treats contributions to defined benefit schemes as if they were contributions to a defined contribution scheme in accordance with the exemptions permitted by FRS 17 Retirement Benefits.
Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2005 37
