Notes 1 Basis of preparation The Group has adopted International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the EU in its consolidated financial statements for accounting periods from 1 January 2005.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 have been prepared in accordance with all adopted IFRSs including the interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
These are the Groups first consolidated financial statements under IFRS and IFRS 1First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards has been applied see Note 30.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practices UK GAAP.
These are presented on pages 36 to 41.
In preparing the financial statements the Group has decided to adopt early the amendment issued in December 2004 to International Accounting Standard IAS 19 Employee Benefits Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group Plans and Disclosure.
With effect from 1 January 2005 the Group adopted IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The effect of adopting IAS 39 at 1 January 2005 is presented as a movement in the Groups consolidated statement of recognised income and expense for 2005.
The financial information for the year ended 31 December 2004 has been prepared on the same basis with the exception of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 which have been applied from 1 January 2005.
The comparative figures for financial assets and liabilities are accounted for under UK GAAP.
In general, as a first time adopter of IFRS, the Group has applied the standards retrospectively.
However there are a number of exceptions available under IFRS 1 and details of these are set out in Note 30.
Some adjustments, none of which materially impact the previously published IFRS information, have been made to reflect reclassifications and interpretations of accounting standards.
2 Accounting policies a Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are included in the financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of the acquisition is measured as the fair value of the consideration plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at fair value at the acquisition date.
The excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
ii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expense arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
b Foreign currency i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
ii Financial statements of foreign operations Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill, intangibles and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses of foreign operations are translated at average exchange rates.
Exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised in the translation reserve.
iii Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations and related hedges are taken to the translation reserve and released to the income statement on disposal.
In respect of all foreign operations, differences that have arisen since 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are presented as a separate component of equity.
c Financial instruments The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004 have been prepared using the accounting policies previously applied for financial instruments under UK GAAP as the Group has adopted the IFRS 1 exemption not to apply IAS 32 and IAS 39 to the comparative period.
Under UK GAAP forward foreign exchange contracts hedging transaction exposures were revalued at year end exchange rates with net unrealised gains and losses being deferred to match the maturity of the underlying exposure.
The accounting policies described below for financial instruments are applicable from 1 January 2005.
The effect of adopting these standards was to recognise a net derivative liability of 1.3m in the opening balance sheet.
Under IAS 39, financial instruments are initially measured at fair value with subsequent measurement depending upon the classification of the instrument.
Financial assets classified as available for sale and financial assets or liabilities classified as at fair value through profit or loss including derivatives are held at fair value.
Other financial assets and liabilities are held at amortised cost, unless they are in a fair value hedging relationship.
Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge exposures to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
8 Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2005 2 Accounting policies continued c Financial instruments continued i Fair value hedge Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability, all changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted by the change in fair value that is attributable to the risk being hedged.
ii Cash flow hedge Where derivatives that are designated and qualify as a hedge are used to hedge forecast transactions, any effective portion of the change in fair value is recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the income statement in the period when the hedged item will affect profit.
iii Hedge of net investment in foreign operations Gains or losses on instruments used to hedge net investment in foreign operations that are effective hedges are recognised in equity.
Ineffective hedges or portions thereof are recognised in the income statement.
d Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
The revalued amounts of previously revalued properties were treated as deemed cost upon transition to IFRS.
e Depreciation Depreciation is normally provided on a straight line basis to write off cost over the estimated remaining useful lives.
This is at the following annual rates applied to cost or deemed cost less estimated residual value: Buildings 2% or life of lease if shorter Plant and machinery 10 20% Fixtures, fittings and equipment 10 33% Freehold land Not depreciated The assets residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
f Intangible assets i Goodwill Acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method.
As permitted by IFRS 1 the Group has chosen to apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations from 1 January 2004 and has elected not to restate previous business combinations.
For acquisitions that have occurred on or after 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the difference between the fair value of consideration given and the fair value of net identifiable assets.
For acquisitions made before 1 January 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of deemed cost, which represents the amount previously recorded under UK GAAP.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units and is not amortised but tested annually for impairment.
Negative goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised in the income statement.
ii Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognised on acquisition and recorded at fair value.
To date these have principally been related to customer lists and relationships.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful economic lives 15 to 18 years.
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses.
g Leases Operating lease rentals and any incentives receivable are recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased assets are classified as finance leases.
Where land and buildings are held under finance leases the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately from that of the buildings.
h Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups long term assets, other than inventory and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine if there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
Impairment losses are recognised when the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, with impairment losses being recognised in the income statement.
For goodwill the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date.
The recoverable amount is the greater of net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use estimated future cash flows are discounted to present value using a pre-tax discount rate which reflects the current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
i Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost on a first in, first out basis and net realisable value.
j Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and fixed term investments with maturities of three months or less from the date of acquisition.
In preparing the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents also comprise bank overdrafts.
k Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are stated at cost less any impairment losses.
Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2005 9 Notes continued 2 Accounting policies continued l Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are stated at cost.
m Income tax Income tax in the income statement comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except when it relates to items reflected in equity when it is recognised in equity.
Current tax reflects tax payable on taxable income for the year using rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and any adjustments in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method providing for certain temporary differences arising between tax bases and carrying amounts in the financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which any asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
n Revenue Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement when significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer.
Revenue is not recognised if there is significant uncertainty regarding recovery of the consideration due, nor is it recognised if there is significant uncertainty concerning the return of goods.
o Employee benefits i Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged as an expense to the income statement as incurred.
ii Defined benefit plans IAS 19 has been applied to the Groups defined benefit schemes.
Accordingly all actuarial gains and losses at 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, were recognised.
Actuarial gains and losses arising on or after 1 January 2004 are recognised in full in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
Pension liabilities are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet and represent the difference between the market value of scheme assets and the present value of scheme liabilities.
Scheme liabilities are determined on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and discounted using a rate of AA rated bonds that have a similar maturity to the scheme liabilities.
Current service cost, past service cost and gains and losses on any settlement and curtailments are charged to the income statement.
The expected increase in the present value of scheme liabilities arising during the year is included within finance cost and the expected return generated during the year on scheme assets is included within finance income.
p Share based payments The Group operates equity settled, share based compensation plans.
The total expected expense based on the fair value at grant date of options and other share based incentives is calculated using a valuation model at the date of grant and spread over the expected vesting period.
The corresponding credit entry is taken to equity.
Details of these plans are outlined in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 51. q Provisions Provisions are recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and where it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable costs of meeting its obligation under the contract.
r Net debt Net debt is defined as cash and cash equivalents, net of interest bearing loans and borrowings.
s Discontinued operations Discontinued operations represent a component of the Group that has either been disposed of or is classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
The profit or loss after tax of the discontinued component is disclosed as a single line on the income statement.
The cash flows of the discontinued component are also disclosed as a single line in each of the categories in the cash flow statement.
10 Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2005 Critical accounting policies The following provides information on those policies that management considers critical because of the level of judgement and estimation involved which often involve assumptions regarding future events which can vary from what is anticipated.
The directors believe that the financial statements reflect appropriate judgements and estimations and provide a true and fair view of the Groups performance and financial position.
a Pensions The Group accounts for its defined benefit pension schemes in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The application of IAS 19 requires the exercise of judgement in relation to the assumptions used see Note 22 and for each assumption there is a range of possible outcomes.
In consultation with the Groups actuaries management decides the point within those ranges that most appropriately reflects the Groups circumstances.
Small changes to these assumptions can have a significant impact on valuations.
b Intangible assets IFRS 3 requires the identification of acquired intangible assets as part of a business combination.
The methods used to value such intangible assets require the use of estimates.
Future results are impacted by the amortisation periods adopted and changes to the estimated useful lives would result in different effects on the income statement.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
Tests for impairment are based on discounted cash flows and assumptions including discount rates, timing and growth prospects which are inherently subjective.
c Revenue recognition Revenue represents sales to third parties for goods sold and are valued at invoiced amount, excluding sales taxes, less estimated provisions for returns and volume and early settlement discounts where relevant.
Returns provisions are based on experience over an appropriate period whereas volume and early settlement discounts are based on agreements with customers.
d Acquisitions Acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method based upon the fair value of the consideration paid.
Assets and liabilities are measured at fair value and the purchase price is allocated to assets and liabilities based upon these fair values.
Determining the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired involved the use of significant estimates and assumptions such as discount rates, asset lives and recoverability.
Assets and liabilities are measured at fair value and freehold properties are typically determined by valuation on an open market existing use basis by qualified valuers.
Management believes that estimates made in previous years have been accurate as any change made in the 12 month period following acquisition to finalise provisional fair value adjustments made in the year of acquisition have not been material.
Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2005 11
