CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Fostering relationships within the community Policy statement: We observe the laws of the countries in which we trade and act in a manner consistent with our objective of being a good corporate citizen.
During the past year, we have continued to develop and implement our global charitable giving policy which focuses on four areas: Education, with particular emphasis on fashion and textile design programmes: Medical research and awareness programmes: Humanitarian issues: and The arts.
We continue to recognise and support projects which nurture the future talent of the fashion industry.
We do this by contributing to organisations such as Textprint a charity whose aim is to link the best newly graduated textile designers with industry and educational establishments such as the Royal College of Art and the Central St Martins College of Art and Design.
During the past year, we have pledged our support for various medical research and awareness programmes, including Cancer Research UK the worlds leading cancer research charity, the National Multiple Sclerosis Society and the American Cancer Society.
We maintained our charitable support of breast cancer research and awareness through sales of a special edition trench coat, scarf and handbag.
In total, over 142,000 of the sales proceeds received from customers was given to the UK Breakthrough Breast Cancer Charity and The Breast Cancer Research Foundation in the US, as well as Breast Cancer charities in France and Asia.
Humanitarian issues have been of great importance this year.
Following the Tsunami disaster, a cash donation of over 100,000 was made to the Tsunami Relief Fund DEC which ensured that funds reached those most in need of support.
Events to raise additional funds for the Tsunami Appeal also took place in London and Hong Kong.
In order to continue our support of Arts projects we have donated funds to the Hockney Collection, housed in the San Francisco Museum of Performance and Design.
This donation also has an educational aspect, with a portion of funds contributing towards the museums programme of cultural events.
During the year to 31 March 2005, the Group donated, in cash, a total of 346,423 to charitable causes including the one-off donation of 100,000 to the Tsunami Relief Fund charitable donations during the year to 31 March 2004: 198,000.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 41
