CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY For Burberry Group, corporate social responsibility CSR involves managing those social, environmental and ethical issues that if managed improperly could pose a threat to the Groups assets, reputation and the Burberry brand.
Conversely, good management in many of these areas, for example the environment, has been proven to have direct financial benefit.
The principal CSR issues relating to the Burberry Group are identified as: Product Quality providing products of the appropriate quality commensurate with the Groups position as an international supplier of luxury goods, including the responsible sourcing and marketing of products: Customer Service serving customers, both retail and wholesale, to their complete satisfaction: Working Environment providing a working environment that is conducive to the recruitment and retention of the widest possible range of talented staff, and which is a safe and healthy place to work: Business Partners and Supply Chain appropriate labour, environmental and social practices in the Groups supply chain and business partners: Environment improving the Groups environmental performance to increase operational efficiency and to reduce environmental impact: and Community Affairs developing strong relationships in our chosen communities in support of our business objectives, by using the Groups unique assets to benefit society.
The management of CSR Overall responsibility for CSR matters rests with Michael Mahony, the Company Secretary.
He is responsible for ensuring that the Board is aware of the relevant CSR issues facing the Group and, together with the support of a CSR Committee, ensures that systems are in place to identify and manage risks within the CSR arena.
Responsibilities for specific CSR matters are assigned, where possible, to the appropriate functional staff.
The CSR Committee is comprised of these individuals, with responsibility for: environment, health and safety, human resources, supply chain and licensees, charitable and community activity, wholesale and retail customers and internal audit.
It is assisted by a specialist firm with expertise in CSR.
The Committee meets with the objective of considering emerging CSR issues, proposing activity, sharing information on activity underway and co-ordinating disclosure and reporting.
The Board has approved the CSR Policy and a formal report is made on an annual basis.
Information on the Groups CSR performance is collected annually, the exercise being co-ordinated by the CSR Committee.
Much of this information for example environmental performance data, data on customer satisfaction, human resource data, supply chain audits etc is derived from existing management systems in the business and the environmental performance data is subject to third-party review by independent consultants.
Unless stated explicitly otherwise, all of the disclosures can be taken to apply to the Groups operations internationally.
The final version of the CSR disclosures is formally approved by the relevant individuals from the CSR Committee and by the Company Secretary.
Policies and procedures The Group has developed a formal policy on CSR, extracts from which are reproduced in the relevant sections below.
A number of other specific policies exist for example on Health and Safety, Equal Opportunities, Environment, Code of Business Principles etc.
In the past year, work has commenced on enhancing Group policies and compliance with these is subject to testing via the work of the internal audit department.
Products and customers Policy statement: We aim to win and keep customers through the quality of our product and service.
We do not bribe to obtain or keep business.
We only pay a bona fide commission.
We respect our customers requirements and keep their secrets.
Meeting and surpassing the expectations of our wholesale and retail customers encourages brand loyalty, maintains our reputation and contributes to increased sales.
The need to ensure a high quality customer experience at every stage of the sales process is a key objective for Burberry.
This need is embedded within the businesss systems, policies and processes from our branding policy, fabric guide manual and wearer trial policy, through to the measurement of customer satisfaction.
All retail customer queries and complaints from around the world are managed locally by the relevant store and in addition there is a central Retail Customer Service Department in London which deals with queries arising from products purchased within Europe.
Wholesale customer service issues are dealt with via our global network of wholesale showrooms and offices and through our Head Office Sales and Administration Services Departments.
The monitoring of customer service is performed in a number of ways including the use of mystery shoppers at retail premises and more in-depth market research initiatives.
In the United Kingdom we have broadened our processes for monitoring customer complaints which we continue to experience at an acceptably low level.
Over the following year we will be extending these monitoring processes to cover complaints made in our US, Spanish and Asian operations.
38 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05
