STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Company has a website www.
com which contains information on Group activities and published financial results.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of the website and accordingly the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented in the website.
The maintenance and integrity of this website is the responsibility of the directors.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
42 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05
