qxd 31 3 06 4:09 pm Page 133 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC Basis of Audit Opinion We have audited the parent company financial statements of Legal & General Group Plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 We conducted our audit in accordance with International which comprise the Balance Sheet, the Statement of Total Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Recognised Gains and Losses and the related notes.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, company financial statements have been prepared under the of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the company financial statements and the part of the Directors Report information in the Directors Report on Remuneration that is on Remuneration to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of described as having been audited.
the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in We have reported separately on the group financial statements the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of of Legal & General Group Plc for the year ended 31 December 2005. whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, information and explanations which we considered necessary in the Directors Report on Remuneration and the parent company order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable financial statements in accordance with applicable law and assurance that the parent company financial statements and the United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally part of the Directors Report on Remuneration to be audited are free Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other of Directors Responsibilities.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent statements and the part of the Directors Report on Remuneration company financial statements and the part of the Directors Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory on Remuneration to be audited.
requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for Opinion and only for the companys members as a body in accordance In our opinion: with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume the parent company financial statements give a true and fair responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come Accounting Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
31 December 2005: and We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent the parent company financial statements and the part of the company financial statements give a true and fair view and Directors Report on Remuneration to be audited have been whether the parent company financial statements and the part properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. of the Directors Report on Remuneration to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the parent company financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our  LLP audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
London We read other information contained in the Annual Report 16 March 2006 and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises a The financial statements are published on the website of Legal & General Group only the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Plc, www.
The maintenance and integrity of the Report on Remuneration, the Chairmans Statement, the Operating Legal & General Group Plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, and Financial Review and the Corporate Governance Statement.
accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the the website.
Our responsibilities do not b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination extend to any other information.
of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
