Statement of directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Directors are also required to: financial statements.
The Directors are required to prepare financial properly select and apply accounting policies: statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides Reporting Standards IFRSs and have also chosen to prepare accounts relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and for the Company in accordance with IFRSs.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the statements in accordance with IFRSs, the Companies Act 1985 and entitys financial position and financial performance.
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and the preparation of a Directors report and Directors remuneration report recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985. in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with the company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing all applicable IFRSs.
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
35 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2005
