Notice of AGM Notice is hereby given that the 2006 Annual General Meeting of PartyGaming Plc will be held on Thursday 4 May 2006 at 11.00 a. m. at Tercentenary Sports Hall, Bayside Sports Centre, Bayside Road, Gibraltar to consider the following business all Resolutions are proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and will be decided on a poll : 1.
To receive the financial statements, Directors Report and Auditors Report for the year ended 31 December 2005.
To approve the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2005.
To declare a final dividend of 5.25 cents per Share payable on 19 May 2006 to those Shareholders on the register of members on 7 April 2006.
To re-appoint BDO Stoy Hayward LLP and BDO Fidecs Chartered Accountants Limited as the Companys auditors with BDO Fidecs Chartered Accountants Limited acting as the auditor for the purposes of Section 10 of the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Ordinance 1999.
To authorise the Directors to set the auditors remuneration.
To re-appoint Janos Libor as a Director 7.
To re-appoint Martin Weigold as a Director.
To re-appoint Nigel Kenny as a Director.
To re-appoint Lars Berg as a Director.
By order of the Board of Directors David Abdoo General Counsel and Company Secretary PartyGaming Plc 711, Europort Gibraltar 29 March 2006 Notes: 1.
General The Notice of AGM is an important document.
If there is anything you do not understand then you should consult with the appropriate professional adviser.
If you have any questions regarding how to attend and or vote at the AGM then please contact the Registrar.
If you have recently sold all of your PartyGaming Shares and or Depositary Interests then please send this document and the enclosed forms to the person who sold the Shares Depositary Interests for you.
They can then send them to the new owner of the Shares Depositary Interests.
References to times in the Notice are to the time in Gibraltar which is one hour ahead of British Summer Time BST.
Re-appointment of the Directors Resolutions 6 to 9 Biographies of Messrs. Libor, Weigold, Kenny and Berg are set out in the Annual Report in the Board of Directors section.
The Board unanimously recommends the re-appointment of these Directors for the reasons set out in the Directors Report.
Right of attendance 3.1 Shareholders To have the right to come and vote at the AGM, you must be a Shareholder of the Company holding Shares entered on the Companys register of members by 11.00 a. m. 10.00 a. m. BST on 2 May 2006.
If you are planning on attending the AGM the Company would be grateful if you could also return the enclosed attendance card.
This assists us in ensuring we have sufficient seating and refreshments for those planning to attend.
3.2 Depositary Interest Holders To have the right to come and vote at the AGM, you must be entered on the Companys register of Depositary Interests by 11.00 a. m. 10.00 a. m BST on 2 May 2006 and bring to the AGM a letter of corporate representation validly executed on behalf of the Depositary.
A letter of corporate representation can be obtained from the Depositary.
Voting 4.1 Shareholders Shareholders may attend the AGM in person and vote on a show of hands or on a poll.
A Shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the AGM may also appoint a proxy to attend and, on a poll, vote in his her place.
A proxy need not be a Shareholder of the Company.
A proxy may demand or join in demanding a poll but has no right to speak at the meeting, except with the permission of the Chairman.
A proxy form may be submitted in hard copy form by post or courier or electronically via the www.
com website and by selecting the Annual General Meeting tab on the left hand side of the page.
Hard copy proxy forms must be completed by or on behalf of the Shareholder.
If the Shareholder is a corporation then the proxy form must be executed by a duly authorised person or under its common seal or in a manner authorised by its constitution.
A proxy form is enclosed with the Annual Report.
To be valid completed proxy forms must be returned to The Registrar, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU to be received no later than 11.00 a. m. 10.00 a. m BST on 2 May 2006.
Shareholders wishing to submit proxy forms electronically should visit the www.
com website and select the Annual General Meeting tab on the left hand side of the page.
To be valid electronic proxy instructions must be received by the Registrar no later than 11.00 a. m. 10.00 a. m BST on 2 May 2006.
101 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2005 Notice of AGM continued 4.2 Depositary Interest Holders Depositary Interest Holders may attend in person and vote on a show of hands or on a poll if the Depositary has appointed them a corporate representative see section 3.2 above].
Depositary Interest Holders not wishing to attend the AGM but wishing to vote in respect of the resolutions to be considered at the AGM can do so by instructing the Depositary.
This may be done in one of two ways: i Depositary Interest Holders who are CREST members may give such an instruction utilising the CREST electronic voting service in accordance with the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal Depositary Holders or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for an instruction made by CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST proxy instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos requirements and must contain information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, in order to be valid, must be transmitted so as to be received by the Depositarys agent, ID RA10 by 11.00 a. m. 10.00 a. m. BST on 1 May 2006.
The time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST applications host from which the Depositarys agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The Depositary may treat as invalid a CREST voting instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST proxy instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider takes such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
Please refer to the CREST Manual for further guidance.
ii Depositary Interest Holders who cannot give voting instructions via CREST should complete the enclosed form of direction and submit it to the Depositary.
If the Depositary Interest Holder is a corporation then the form of direction must be executed by a duly authorised person or under its common seal or in a manner authorised by its constitution.
To be valid forms of direction must be received by the Depositary no later than 11.00 a. m. 10.00 a. m. BST on 1 May 2006.
PartyGaming employees PartyGaming employees who have exercised their PartyGaming options and have retained all some of the resultant Shares, hold these Shares through the PartyGaming Nominee Account Service, Capita IRG Trustee Nominees Limited.
Employees who wish to attend the AGM, speak and vote at the AGM should request Capita IRG Trustee Nominees Limited to appoint them as a corporate representative.
This is done by completing the Nominee Account Instruction form enclosed with their Annual Report.
Whether an eligible employee wishes to attend the AGM or not, they are recommended to complete the Nominee Account Instruction form and send it to The Registrar, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, United Kingdom, to be received no later than 11.00 a. m. 10.00 a. m. BST on 1 May 2006.
Documents for inspection Copies of the following documents are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Companys registered office at 711 Europort, Gibraltar.
These documents will also be available for inspection at Tercentenary Sports Hall, Bayside Sports Centre, Bayside Road, Gibraltar on the day of the meeting from 10.30 a. m. until the conclusion of the meeting: Memorandum and Articles of Association: Listing Particulars: Executive Directors Service Agreements: Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment: The signed Annual Report for the year ended 2005: and Register of Members.
