Remuneration report continued Total shareholder return Value of 100 invested at Admission Value of 100 invested at Admission The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 require the PartyGaming Remuneration Committee to set out a graph showing the total FTSE100 shareholder return of the Companys Shares against the total 120 shareholder return performance of a suitable index.
The Directors Brian Larcombe have chosen the FTSE 100 Index as the most appropriate Chairman of the Remuneration Committee comparator index as it is a widely-used and understood index [22] Mar 110 ch 2006 of leading UK companies, and the Company is a constituent member.
The graph plots the value of an investment of 100 in 100 the Companys Shares and in the FTSE 100 Index from Admission to 31 December 2005.
The change in the value of the FTSE 100 Index holding reflects any changes in the constituent companies 90 over the period.
The value of dividend income is treated as reinvested in the period.
30 Jun 31 Dec Brian Larcombe Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 28 February 2006 Directors responsibility statement The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Group and parent company financial statements records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the statements in accordance with IFRS, the Gibraltar Companies assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and Consolidated Accounts Ordinance 1999, the Gibraltar detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the Companies Accounts Ordinance 1999 and the Gibraltar preparation of a Directors Report which complies with the Companies Ordinance 1930, as amended.
Gilbraltar Companies Consolidated Accounts Ordinance International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial 1999, the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Ordinance 1999 and statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups the Gibraltar Companies Ordinance 1930, as amended, and a and the Companys financial position, financial performance Directors Remuneration Report which complies with the and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the requirements of the Companies Act 1985. effects of transactions, other events and conditions in Financial statements are published on the Groups website in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for accordance with legislation in the United Kingdom governing assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, which Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The maintenance and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all and integrity of the Groups website is the responsibility of the circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by Directors.
The Directors' responsibility also extends to the ongoing compliance with all applicable IFRS.
A fair presentation also integrity of the financial statements contained therein.
requires the Directors to: The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and consistently select and apply appropriate accounting policies: the financial statements.
The Directors are required to prepare present information, including accounting policies, in a financial statements for the Group in accordance with manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, and have also understandable information: and chosen to prepare financial statements for the Company in accordance with IFRS.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
76 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2005 In the red?
77 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2005 Record results 2005 was a cracking year for As if you didnt know!
PartyGaming with revenue up 63%, Clean EBITDA up 49% and operating cash flow up 45%.
