Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 59 Principal Accounting Policies Principal Accounting Policies Basis of accounting Basis of consolidation Turnover The accounts have been prepared under The Group accounts incorporate the In the opinion of the directors, disclosure of the historical cost convention, as modified accounts of Man Group plc and its turnover is most appropriately represented by the revaluation of certain assets, and subsidiaries for the year ended 31 March by net operating income, which comprises in accordance with applicable accounting 2005.
The results of subsidiaries disposed net fee and commission income, net trading standards in the United Kingdom and, of in the period are incorporated up to the interest income and other operating income.
except for the treatment of taking to the date control is transferred.
The results of This represents an adaptation of the profit profit and loss account profits and losses subsidiaries acquired in the period are and loss account format laid down in arising on the revaluation of financial incorporated from the date control is Schedule 4 to the Companies Act 1985 due instruments, in accordance with the acquired, using the acquisition method to the special nature of the Groups business.
requirements of the Companies Act 1985 of accounting.
An explanation of this departure Net operating income and revenue is given in the net operating income and Entities that do not qualify as subsidiaries recognition revenue recognition note below.
but which give rise to benefits that are in In Asset Management, performance fees substance no different from those that are only recognised once they have been The Group reviews and updates its would arise were the entity a subsidiary locked-in and cannot subsequently be accounting policies, in accordance with are included in the consolidated accounts.
Management fees, which include the requirements of FRS 18 Accounting The Group has one such quasi-subsidiary, all non-performance related fees, are Policies, on a regular basis.
There have Forester Limited, which issued exchangeable recognised as earned.
been no significant changes in 2005, other bonds to raise funding for the Group.
To than those outlined below.
show the effect of the inclusion of Forester In Brokerage, execution and clearing Limited on the consolidated accounts, its commissions are recognised as earned.
As stated in the 2004 Annual Report, summary accounts are given in note 35.
In order to reflect the substance of matched the Group has changed its presentation principal transactions entered into by currency from sterling to US dollars with Certain US limited partnerships in which the Group, where it acts as principal for effect from 1 April 2004.
The comparative the Group is general partner are not the simultaneous purchase and sale of figures have therefore been presented in consolidated because there are severe securities to third parties, commission US dollars, applying the exchange rates long-term restrictions on the rights of the income is the difference between the as given in note 39. general partners.
The Group accounts for consideration received on the sale of the the 1% general partnership interests as security and its purchase cost.
Net trading Changes in accounting policy fixed asset investments.
interest income, which is largely generated As from 1 April 2004, the Group has from client segregated funds, is recognised adopted UITF 38 Accounting for ESOP Shares in subsidiary undertakings as earned.
trusts and UITF 17 revised 2003 Employee The Companys shares in subsidiary share schemes.
Under UITF 38 own shares undertakings are stated in the balance In accordance with accepted practice, held through an ESOP trust are now sheet of the Company at cost less those financial instruments including recorded at cost and shown as a deduction provisions for any impairment in value.
forward positions and derivatives held for in arriving at shareholders funds.
Previously trading purposes are marked-to-market these shares were recorded at cost less Joint ventures and associates and consequent gains and losses are taken amortisation and shown as a fixed asset A joint venture is an entity in which the to the profit and loss account.
This policy investment with amortisation charges being Group holds a long-term interest and which represents a departure from the statutory taken to the profit and loss account.
Also, is jointly controlled by the Group and one or requirement to record positions and gains and losses on the purchase, sale, more other venturers under a contractual instruments at the lower of cost and net issue or cancellation of own shares are now arrangement.
An associate is an undertaking, realisable value.
The directors consider this no longer recognised in the profit and loss not being a subsidiary or joint venture, in to be necessary for the accounts to show account or statement of total recognised which the Groups interest is substantial and a true and fair view.
It is not practical to gains and losses.
Under the revised UITF 17, for the long-term and, having regard to the quantify the effect on the accounts of this employee share scheme charges to the profit disposition of the other shareholdings, the departure, since information on original and loss account are now always calculated Group is in a position to exercise a significant cost, being of no continuing relevance as the intrinsic value of the award spread influence over its policies and participates to the business, is not available.
The intrinsic in its commercial and financial decisions.
value is the difference between the fair value Sales commissions of the shares at the date of grant and the The Groups share of the profits less losses In Asset Management, sales commissions amount paid by the employee to exercise the of joint ventures and associates is included paid to intermediaries and employees rights to those shares irrespective of the cost in the consolidated profit and loss account when a fund is first launched are capitalised of shares purchased to fund the award.
The on the equity accounting basis or, in the and charged on a straight-line basis to net adoption of these two standards represents case of joint ventures, the gross equity operating income over the shorter of five a change in accounting policy and the accounting basis.
The Groups share of years and the period during which fees are comparative figures have been restated the reserves from the dates of acquisition payable by the investor for early redemption.
Details of the effect of the prior of joint ventures and associates is included Trail commissions are charged to net year adjustments are given in note 25. in the consolidated balance sheet.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 60 Principal Accounting Policies Financial instruments the profit and loss account immediately as Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to Financial instruments, including derivatives, part of operating profit.
31 March 1998 was written off directly are held for trading purposes or held as against Group reserves.
Gains or losses on hedging Debt instruments eliminated against reserves has not been instruments are accounted for in accordance Debt instruments issued by the Group are reinstated on the implementation of FRS 10. with the policy described below.
The finance costs of debt Adjustments to earn-outs relating to instruments and derivative financial instruments are charged to the net interest acquisitions prior to 31 March 1998 have instruments held for trading are marked-toincome line in the profit and loss account been taken directly to Group reserves.
market, with the resulting gains and losses over the term of the debt.
Such costs include Upon the sale or closure of previously taken to the net operating income line in the the costs of issue and any discount to face acquired businesses, any goodwill arising profit and loss account.
Assets, or positive value arising on issue.
The exchangeable on acquisition that was written off directly fair values, arising from transactions in bonds are accounted for without anticipating to reserves or that has not been amortised these instruments, are shown under exchange, in accordance with FRS 4 through the profit and loss account is taken debtors in the balance sheet.
into account in determining the profit or loss or negative fair values, arising from these on sale or closure.
transactions in these instruments, are shown Currencies under creditors in the balance sheet.
Transactions in currencies other than the Impairment functional currency of the undertaking Tangible fixed assets and goodwill are The Group uses various financial instruments concerned are recorded at the exchange subject to impairment review, in accordance to reduce exposure to foreign exchange rate appropriate at the time of accounting with FRS 11, if there are events or changes risks, future commodity price risks and for the transaction.
Currency balances at in circumstances that indicate that the interest rate risks.
These include forward the year-end are converted at the exchange carrying amount of the fixed asset or currency contracts and to a lesser extent rate ruling at that date except where goodwill may not be fully recoverable.
currency options, commodity futures and covered by an open foreign exchange Goodwill is also subject to impairment options with recognised exchanges and contract in which case the rate specified in reviews at the end of the first full financial interest rate swaps.
A financial instrument is the contract is used.
Specific details considered to be used for hedging purposes of such impairment reviews are given in when it alters the risk profile of an existing, Assets and liabilities of those subsidiaries note 16. or anticipated, underlying exposure of and associates which prepare accounts in the Group in line with the Groups risk currencies other than the Groups reporting The impairment review comprises a management policies.
currency are translated at year-end rates.
comparison of the carrying amount of the The results and cash flows of these fixed asset or goodwill with its recoverable Hedging instruments are matched with their undertakings are translated at average rates amount, which is the higher of net realisable underlying hedged item either individually for the year.
Differences on exchange arising value and value in use.
Net realisable value or in aggregate as appropriate.
The gains from the translation of opening balance is calculated by reference to the amount and losses on hedging instruments are not sheets of those subsidiaries and associates at which the asset could be disposed of.
recognised in the profit and loss account whose reporting currency is not US dollars, Value in use is calculated by discounting the immediately as they arise.
Such gains and together with the differences between the expected future cash flows obtainable as a losses are either not recognised in the balance results of these undertakings translated at result of the assets continued use, including sheet or are recognised and carried forward.
average rates for the year and year-end those resulting from its ultimate disposal, at When the hedged transaction occurs, the rates, are taken directly to reserves, together a market based discount rate on a pre-tax gain or loss is recognised in the profit and with differences on non-US dollar borrowings basis.
The carrying values of fixed assets loss account at the same time as the hedged used to hedge those investments.
and goodwill are written down by the amount item.
For foreign exchange instruments, of any impairment and this loss is recognised this will be in operating profit matched All other gains and losses are taken to the in the profit and loss account in the period against the relevant purchase or sale, and profit and loss account.
for interest rate instruments, within interest payable or receivable over the life of the Goodwill Other investments instrument or relevant interest period.
Positive goodwill arising on acquisitions since Investments are classified as fixed assets The profit or loss on an instrument may 1 April 1998 is capitalised, categorised as an where the intention is to hold the investment be deferred if the hedged transaction is asset on the balance sheet and amortised for the long-term for use in the business or expected to take place, or would normally over its useful economic life.
The useful where the Groups ability to dispose of the be accounted for, in a future period.
If the economic life of the goodwill is determined investment is restricted.
Other investments matched underlying asset, liability, income at the time of the acquisition giving rise to it are classified as current assets.
or cost ceases to exist, or is no longer by considering the nature of the acquired considered likely to exist in the future, the business, the economic environment in which Fixed asset investments are carried at hedging instrument is closed out.
Any profit it operates and period of time over which the their purchase price.
Where an investment or loss on the sale, or that arises when a value of the business is expected to exceed has diminished in value the diminution is hedging transaction is terminated prior to the values of the identifiable net assets.
The charged to the profit and loss account if it the end of the life of the underlying asset, goodwill amortisation periods used by the is permanent.
If the circumstances giving liability, income or expense, is recognised in Group range between 3 and 15 years.
rise to the diminution have reversed to any Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 61 Principal Accounting Policies extent, the charge to the profit and loss basis of a constant percentage of earnings.
Segregated balances account is written back to the extent that Variations from regular cost are spread over As required by the United Kingdom it is no longer necessary.
Current asset the expected remaining service lives of Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 investments are marked-to-market and all current employees.
To the extent that such and by the US Commodity Exchange Act, revaluation gains and losses are recognised costs do not equate with cash contributions in Brokerage, the Group maintains certain in the profit and loss account as stated a provision or prepayment is recognised balances on behalf of clients with banks, in the net operating income and revenue in the balance sheet.
The additional exchanges, clearing houses and brokers in recognition policy.
disclosures required by the transitional segregated accounts.
These amounts and arrangements of FRS 17 have been made the related liabilities to clients, whose Matched principal business in note 9. recourse is limited to the segregated In Brokerage, certain Group companies are accounts, are not included in the Group involved in collateralised stock borrowing Employee share ownership trusts balance sheet.
Details of the amount of and lending transactions acting as an The purchase cost of investments in own segregated balances and the reasons for intermediary between counterparties.
shares held in connection with the Groups not including them in the Group balance Although the legal form of such transactions employee share schemes are recorded at sheet are given in note 18. is that the Group acts as a principal to both cost as a deduction from equity shareholders sides of the transaction, thus maintaining funds.
At the end of the vesting period the Deferred taxation anonymity to the market, the substance of shares are transferred to employees.
If any Deferred taxation is recognised on all timing the transactions is that the Group acts as shares do not vest, they are typically carried differences where the transaction or events an intermediary and assumes minimal risk.
forward to a future years share scheme or that give rise to an obligation to pay more Accordingly, the deposits paid and received sold in the open market.
tax in the future, or a right to pay less tax for securities borrowed and loaned have in the future, have occurred by the balance been offset and only the net amount is The fair value of the shares options at the sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is only included in debtors and creditors.
For date of award grant, less any consideration recognised to the extent that it is more likely information the relevant gross values are to be received from the employee, is charged than not that it can be recovered.
Deferred disclosed in note 17. to the profit and loss account over the tax is measured at the average tax rates period to which the employees performance that are expected to apply in the periods in In addition, in Brokerage, certain Group relates.
Where awards are contingent upon which the timing differences are expected companies are involved as principal in the future events an assessment of the likelihood to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that purchase and simultaneous commitment to of these conditions being achieved is made have been enacted or substantially enacted sell securities between third parties.
Such at the end of each reporting period and by the balance sheet date.
The Group does trades are complete only when both sides an appropriate adjustment to the charge not discount its deferred tax balances.
of the deal are settled, and so the Group is made.
The costs of funding and is exposed to risk in the event that one side administrating the trusts are charged to Conversion to International Financial of the transaction remains unmatched.
the profit and loss account in the period Reporting Standards Substantially all trades settle on the appointed to which they relate.
The Group is required under European value date and in most instances delivery of legislation to adopt International Financial stock is only made against payment.
In order Leases Reporting Standards IFRS for its year to reflect the substance of these transactions, Operating lease rentals are charged to the ending 31 March 2006.
A commentary on amounts payable and receivable in respect profit and loss account on a straight line the conversion process and an update of of matched principal business prior to basis in the period to which they relate.
the detailed qualitative review of the impact settlement due date are netted and shown in of IFRS on the Group, originally given in the debtors.
For information the relevant gross Depreciation Annual Report 2004, is included in the values are disclosed in note 17.
Transactions Depreciation is provided on a straight-line Financial Review.
that have failed and those that remain basis to write off tangible fixed assets unsettled beyond value date are shown over their economic useful lives down to gross in trade debtors and trade creditors.
their residual value, which may not be nil.
When determining the useful economic Pensions life of equipment, the Group takes into The Group operates a number of defined account the expected rate of technological contribution and benefit pension schemes.
developments and the intensity at which the For defined contribution schemes, the assets are expected to be used.
The rates pension cost recognised in the profit and used are dependent on the circumstances loss account represents the contributions in the countries in which subsidiaries payable to the scheme during the year.
operate and are as follows: The expected cost of the defined benefit schemes is charged to the profit and loss Leasehold land and buildings life of the lease account, on the advice of independent Equipment 3 to 10 years actuaries who conduct an actuarial valuation every three years, so as to accrue the cost over the service lives of employees on the
