Operating and financial review Critical accounting policies In the preparation of Cable & Wireless consolidated financial based on cash flow projections which include estimates and statements a number of estimates and assumptions are made judgment regarding expectations for the economic useful lives of relating to the reporting of results of operations and financial the products and technology acquired.
In the latter situation, where condition.
Results may differ significantly from those estimates appropriate, third party valuation specialists are involved.
under different assumptions and conditions.
Cable & Wireless believes that the following discussion addresses its most critical Accounting for valuation and recovery of goodwill accounting policies, which are those that are most important to Goodwill usually arises in business combinations as noted above.
the presentation of its consolidated financial condition and results.
Under UK GAAP, the useful life assigned to goodwill is an estimate These particular policies require subjective and complex that is based on the judgment of management at the time of judgements, often as a result of the need to make estimates acquisition.
Goodwill is then amortised on a straight-line basis about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain.
Valuation of tangible fixed assets and intangible assets As noted above Cable & Wireless reviews, on a regular basis, the excluding goodwill performance of its income generating units.
Under UK GAAP, Under UK GAAP, Cable & Wireless assesses the impairment of fixed goodwill is allocated to the relevant income generating unit and assets and intangible assets excluding goodwill whenever events assessed for impairment in the manner described under Valuation or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not of tangible fixed assets and intangible assets excluding goodwill.
be recoverable or otherwise as required by accounting standards.
Factors that are considered important which could trigger an Depreciation and amortisation of fixed assets impairment review include the following: Cable & Wireless assigns useful lives to fixed assets based on periodic studies of actual asset lives and the intended use for those significant under-performance relative to expected historical or assets for example, related to fixed assets purchased for specific projected future operating results: customer contracts.
Changes in circumstances such as technological advances, prospective economic utilisation and physical condition of significant changes in the use of its assets or the strategy for its the assets concerned could result in the actual useful lives differing overall business: from initial estimates.
Where Cable & Wireless determines that the useful life of property and equipment should be shortened, significant changes in technology and regulatory environments: Cable & Wireless depreciates the net book value in excess of the residual value over the revised remaining useful life, thereby significant negative industry or economic trends: and increasing depreciation expense.
Any change in asset lives would be reported in Cable & Wireless financial statements when the significant decline in its stock price for a sustained period and its change in estimate is determined.
market capitalisation relative to net book value.
Revenue recognition Cable & Wireless determines any impairment by comparing the Revenue, which excludes value added tax or other sales taxes, carrying values of each of Cable & Wireless income-generating units represents the amount receivable in respect of telecommunications to their recoverable amounts the higher of net realisable value and services provided to customers and is accounted for on the accruals the present value of the future cash flows obtainable as a result of basis to match revenue with provision of service.
Revenue is an assets continued use.
During 2005, Cable & Wireless impaired recognised monthly as services are provided.
Revenue in respect of tangible fixed assets by 8 million 2004 526 million, 2003 services invoiced in advance is deferred and recognised on provision 2,381 million.
The impairment represented the amount by which of the service.
Revenue in respect of unbilled services is accrued.
the carrying value exceeded the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
Managements judgement is required in assessing the application of the principles and the specific guidance in respect of Group Future cash flows were determined with reference to revenues, including the presentation of turnover as principal or as Cable & Wireless projections using discount rates from 8 per cent agent in respect of income received from transmission of content to 40 per cent which represent the estimated weighted average provided by third parties.
cost of capital for the respective businesses.
Interconnection with other operators Valuation of assets for purchase accounting In Cable & Wireless normal course of business it interconnects Cable & Wireless allocates the cost of acquired companies to its networks with other telecommunications operators.
In certain tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities acquired by instances it uses estimates to determine the amount of income reference to their estimated fair values at the time of acquisition.
receivable from or payments to these other operators.
The prices The remaining amount is recorded as goodwill.
Any value assigned at which these services are charged are sometimes regulated and to the identifiable assets is determined by reference to an active may be subject to retrospective adjustment.
Estimates are used in market, independent appraisal, or estimated by our management assessing the likely effect of these adjustments.
These interconnect 84 85 2005 Annual Report transactions are distinguished from capacity sales which represent Exceptional items sales of Indefeasible Rights of Use IRUs.
IRUs give the purchaser Under UK GAAP, the Company classified the following income the right to use a cable fibre or wavelength for a specified period costs as exceptional items: of time.
2005 2004 2003 m m m Provision for bad and doubtful debts The provision for bad and doubtful debts reflects managements Exceptional operating costs 145 244 442 estimate of losses arising from the failure or inability of Exceptional depreciation 8 526 2,381 Cable & Wireless customers to make required payments.
The Exceptional amortisation 10 2,725 provision is based on the ageing of customer accounts, customer Exceptional profits less losses on credit worthiness and Cable & Wireless historical write-off sale or termination of operations 116 250 147 experience.
Changes to the provision may be required if the Exceptional amounts financial condition of Cable & Wireless customers was to improve written off investments 274 or deteriorate.
An improvement in financial condition may result in Exceptional profits on disposal lower actual write-offs.
Historically, changes to the estimate of losses of fixed assets 23 28 62 have not been material to the Groups financial position and results.
Exceptional tax credit 85 Taxation Judgement is required to classify such items as exceptional items.
Cable & Wireless tax charge on ordinary activities is the sum The Company is guided by FRS 3 Reporting Financial Performance of the total current and deferred tax charges.
The calculation of which provides that material items which derive from events or Cable & Wireless total tax charge necessarily involves a degree of transactions that fall within the ordinary activities are disclosed as estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax exceptional items by virtue of their size or incidence such that the treatment cannot be finally determined until a formal resolution financial statements give a true and fair view.
has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
The final resolution of some of Exceptional operating costs these items may give rise to material profit and loss and or cash In the year ended 31 March 2005 exceptional items included flow variances.
in other operating costs related principally to redundancy and reorganisation costs incurred.
These provisions are based on various The resolution of issues is not always within the control of assumptions, including future severance costs, sublease or disposal Cable & Wireless and it is often dependent on the efficiency of the costs and contractual termination costs.
Such estimates are administrative and legal processes in the relevant taxing jurisdictions judgemental and may change based on actual experience.
in which Cable & Wireless operates.
Issues can, and therefore often do, take many years to resolve.
Payments in respect of tax liabilities Liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account and The Company complies with FRS 12 Provisions, contingent liabilities on the final resolution of open items.
As a result there can be and contingent assets.
A provision is recognised when there is a substantial differences between the tax charge in the profit and loss constructive obligation in respect of a past event.
Provisions and account and tax payments.
liabilities are recognised in respect of tax, pensions, transactions and restructurings.
Managements judgement is required to quantify Recognition of deferred tax assets such amounts.
The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is more likely than not that sufficient and suitable taxable profits Pensions will be available in the future, against which the reversal of timing The regular cost of providing benefits under defined benefit differences can be deducted.
Recognition therefore involves schemes is charged to operating profit over the expected remaining judgement regarding the future financial performance of the service lives of the members of the schemes so as to achieve a particular legal entity or tax group in which the deferred tax asset constant percentage of pensionable pay.
Variations from the regular has been recognised.
cost arising from periodic actuarial valuations of the principal defined benefit schemes are allocated to operating profit over the expected Non-discounting of deferred tax assets and liabilities remaining service lives of the members.
UK GAAP permits calculating deferred taxation assets or liabilities on an undiscounted basis.
It is Cable & Wireless accounting policy to measure deferred taxation on an undiscounted basis.
Performance Operating and financial review Critical accounting policies The expected cost of providing these defined benefit pensions will depend on an assessment of such factors as: the life expectancy of the members: the length of service: the rate of salary progression: the rate of return earned on assets in the future: and the rate used to discount future pension liabilities.
The assumptions used by Cable & Wireless are set out in Note 8 to the Financial statements and are estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which may not necessarily be borne out in practice but are comparable to the median estimates in this regard used by other FTSE 100 companies.
Changes to these assumptions could materially impact the size of the defined benefit schemes deficits of 185 million, calculated under FRS 17, Retirement Benefits, disclosed in Note 8. International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS EU regulated companies are required to file consolidated financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with IFRS for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
Accordingly, IFRS will apply for the first time to Cable & Wireless consolidated financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2006.
Consequently, all the Groups public reporting in respect of accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2005 will be prepared in accordance with IFRS.
As reported last year, the Group has had in place a project to convert the Groups financial statements together with the related underlying processes and systems to IFRS.
The restatement of key financial information for the years ended 31 March 2004 and 2005 to IFRS is well under way.
Unaudited IFRS financial information for the year ended 31 March 2004 was released on 31 March 2005 and is available on the Companys website.
Full 2005 IFRS information will be released before the Groups interim announcement in November 2005.
The SEC has issued an accommodation for foreign private issuers preparing their first set of financial statements under IFRS which allows issuers to file two rather than three years of information.
Cable & Wireless expects to take advantage of the accommodation and hence the Groups date of transition to IFRS will be 1 April 2004.
As noted above, the Group previously issued unaudited information to investors outlining the impact of the change to international standards on the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2004: this assumed a transition date of 1 April 2003.
The change in transition date to 1 April 2004 will have no effect on the net income from continuing activities reported under IFRS for the year ended 31 March 2005 or on net assets as at that date.
