Business overview Geographic operations Cable & Wireless Group provides an outline of the operations that support the UK, the United States, Europe and Asia.
For a discussion on Bulldog and Cable & Wireless 2005 Turnover by geography on the United States, Europe and Asia see page 13.
Continuing operations Total turnover: 3,023 million UK Enterprise 2005 Turnover: 475 million Cable & Wireless defines Enterprise customers as large national and international organisations where significant customisation of 6 1 their telecommunications services is required.
United Kingdom purchase voice and data telecommunications services.
Panama Enterprise customers typically buy telecommunications services 4.
Macau from a variety of suppliers, although many have a longer-term 5.
Monaco relationship with a primary supplier.
Rest of the World require interconnection between multiple sites, so deep network reach is important.
As a result, Cable & Wireless generally competes against other operators with large networks.
Price pressure Cable & Wireless has principal operations in the United Kingdom, the continues to be significant in this market.
Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco.
The Groups operations are managed and reported on a country-based structure.
Cable & Wireless objective in the Enterprise market is to become the partner of choice for companies as they transition from voice The Caribbean, Panama, Macau, Monaco and Rest of the World are and data services delivered over legacy platforms to new voice, collectively referred to as the National Telcos.
For a discussion of data and integrated services delivered over IP-based platforms.
Cable & Wireless turnover by geographic operation for the past Currently, fixed voice represents 54 per cent of total turnover for three years, see Operating and financial review Group turnover.
Enterprise customers in the UK.
United Kingdom Cable & Wireless addresses the needs of its UK-based Enterprise customers for international services through its presence in the United Kingdom 2005 Turnover by customer segment United States, Europe and Asia.
Total turnover: 1,602 million UK Business 2005 Turnover: 394 million Cable & Wireless defines business customers as mid-sized companies who purchase voice and data services over legacy 1 1.
Enterprise and IP-based platforms through direct or indirect sales channels.
2. Business Often, Business customers are regional entities with one or 3.
Carrier services a small number of sites.
Cable & Wireless aims to serve these customers through standardised service offerings.
This market 2 attracts competition from operators with both large and relatively small networks.
3 Currently, fixed voice represents 39 per cent of total turnover Cable & Wireless is the largest fixed voice telecommunications for Business customers in the UK.
Customers in the Business market service provider in the United Kingdom after BT, the incumbent are more easily able to switch providers, resulting in significant price telecom operator.
pressure and high levels of churn across all services delivered over legacy platforms, particularly fixed voice services.
The key area of The UK operation is structured around three key customer growth in this market is voice, data and integrated services delivered segments known as Enterprise, Business and Carrier Services.
These platforms allow customers to access Additionally, the SoHo Consumer customer segment is served enhanced features such as voice, video and data provided through through Bulldog.
The UK sells voice and data services over fixed a single cost-effective platform.
line networks using legacy and IP platforms.
UK Carrier Services 2005 Turnover: 733 million The UK uses the United States CWAO, Europe and Asia to Cable & Wireless defines Carrier Services customers as large provide services to UK-based Enterprise and Carrier Services national and international telecommunications operators or resellers customers with international service requirements.
For this reason, who purchase wholesale services mainly focusing on voice and data the United States, Europe and Asia operations are managed from services delivered over legacy platforms.
the UK and organised around the three relevant customer segments.
This section discusses the customer segments in the UK and 12 13 2005 Annual Report Carrier Services provide fixed voice and data services to the The ability to deliver IP services using its own network provides following types of customers: Bulldog with technological advantages over competitors reselling the incumbents products.
This allows Bulldog to differentiate its large international telecommunications operators, who buy fixed service offerings, maintain full bandwidth control and own the long distance and international fixed voice services: customer from end-to-end.
national mobile operators, who buy both international voice In September 2004, Cable & Wireless announced the initial LLU and data transport backbone services to allow them to connect plan for Bulldog including the target to unbundle 400 exchanges by their radio networks via the fixed infrastructure.
Bulldog had completed LLU on 252 exchanges as operators in their migration to new 3G networks, we have at 31 March 2005 and completed LLU on 400 exchanges in launched services that support international data roaming: May 2005. regional and domestic telecommunications operators to whom Cable & Wireless believes LLU is more than an opportunity to offer we sell fixed voice and data services: fast internet access.
LLU can also provide a cost effective platform from which Cable & Wireless can launch a wide range of new and virtual telecommunications operators and resellers, who purchase existing telecom services from voice to video.
voice services using Carrier Pre-Select CPS.
CPS allows consumer calls to be automatically connected from the incumbent United States CWAO operator network to the network of a competing operator.
2005 Total turnover: 16 million Virtual operators purchase CPS services from Cable & Wireless Cable & Wireless operates in the United States through its and re-sell them under their own brands to residential subsidiary Cable & Wireless Americas Operations, Inc. CWAO.
customers: and CWAO operates a small, efficient and predominantly international Internet Service Providers ISP, who buy data and internet network.
The business provides US connectivity for data and IP transport services.
services to Enterprise customers principally those based in the UK.
Currently, fixed voice represents 91 per cent of total UK Carrier Europe Services turnover.
The Carrier Services market is highly competitive 2005 Total turnover: 186 million and price sensitive.
As a result, significant price declines have been Cable & Wireless operations in continental Europe are in Germany, seen in all key service areas.
France, Spain and Italy, together with smaller operations in Russia, Belgium, The Netherlands, Switzerland and Sweden.
Driven by the requirements of its Carrier Services customers, Cable & Wireless leverages its presence in the United States, Europe and The continental European operations are focused on Carrier Asia as well as the National Telcos to provide voice and data Services, and also support UK Enterprise customers.
Services represents over 80 per cent of turnover in continental Europe.
The main Carrier Services customers are mobile operators SoHo Consumer Bulldog and other telecommunications operators.
2005 Total turnover: 11 million In May 2004 Cable & Wireless acquired 100 per cent of Bulldog Asia in order to capture the growth opportunity in broadband, leverage 2005 Total turnover: 39 million the Cable & Wireless backbone network and expand the Groups Cable & Wireless operations in Asia span Australia, China, Hong IP network.
Kong, India, Japan and Singapore and focus on Carrier Services and Enterprise segments.
The Groups network of 33 nodes in Bulldog provides IP services by way of broadband internet access to 13 countries provides a footprint across the entire region.
Bulldog uses full LLU to connect directly to customers, providing voice telephony and high speed Following the disposal of the Groups domestic business in Japan in internet access services independent of the incumbent operator.
February 2005, the Asia operations have been focused on serving Enterprise customers that require IP and managed data services Full LLU refers to the process by which providers, such as Bulldog to and from Asia principally those based in the UK and Carrier install their own Digital Subscriber Line DSL equipment in Services customers in Asia that require voice, IP and data services rented space within an incumbent operators local exchanges.
DSL technology allows Bulldog to deliver broadband capabilities to customers over ordinary copper telephone lines.
Profile Business overview Geographic operations National T elcos services.
Liberalisation is at an advanced stage across the Caribbean with nearly all markets either fully liberalised or in transition to National Telcos 2005 Turnover by service competitive markets.
Further discussion on liberalisation is in Total turnover: 1,191 million Regulatory framework.
In response to growing competition and to customer demand, 1 Cable & Wireless is increasingly focused on developing and 6 1. International Voice enhancing its mobile and IP service offerings, whilst retaining its 2.
Domestic Voice 2 position in fixed voice services.
IP In order to develop and enhance mobile services in the Caribbean, 5.
Mobile Cable & Wireless continued its expansion of GSM mobile services 5 6.
Other to reach all 13 of the countries in which Cable & Wireless holds 4 3 mobile licences.
Cable & Wireless continues to enhance network coverage, capacity and roaming capabilities, enabling the launch In the National Telcos, Cable & Wireless typically operates the of new products and services, including mobile email, prepaid domestic fixed line telecom network and associated international pan-Caribbean roaming and mobile messaging services MMS.
Its fixed and mobile voice, data and IP services meet the needs of corporate and residential customers, including At 31 March 2005, there were over 900 GSM equipped sites in the fast-growing demand for internet access through dial-up IP and the Caribbean with land mass coverage on most islands between broadband ADSL connections.
During the year, Cable & Wireless total mobile subscribers in these countries increased from 1,141,000 to Almost all the 34 markets in which Cable & Wireless operates 1,367,000. are fully or partially liberalised.
The principal exception is Monaco Telecom which has an exclusive concession to operate international, During 2005, Cable & Wireless expanded its broadband domestic, data and mobile services until 2023.
As competition has capabilities across the Caribbean.
Sales and marketing activities intensified across the National Telcos, Cable & Wireless has have been focused on the rebranding of broadband services.
transformed its organisation, taking on its new competition by Investment has been focused on increasing the number of fixed investing in innovation, such as GSM networks, managing and lines enabled to deliver broadband service, average prices have reducing costs, and marketing proactively.
been reduced and line speeds increased.
DSL customers at 31 March 2005 were approximately 38,000, an increase of Caribbean over 125 per cent from 31 March 2004.
Caribbean 2005 Turnover by service In the Caribbean countries where Cable & Wireless provides Total turnover: 550 million domestic voice services, customers at 31 March 2005 totalled 735,000, an overall decrease of approximately 12 per cent in the year.
This reduction is a result of customers substituting mobile 1 services for fixed line services.
Data 2 Cable & Wireless Jamaica Limited Cable & Wireless Jamaica, a 4.
IP subsidiary of Cable & Wireless, is the incumbent operator and is the 5 5.
Mobile largest of Cable & Wireless Caribbean operations by turnover 4 6.
Other generating 37 per cent of the Caribbeans turnover in 2005.
3 Cable & Wireless Jamaica is the largest telecommunications company in Jamaica.
Overview Cable & Wireless operates in 16 Caribbean countries providing Cable & Wireless Jamaica provides domestic and international fixed domestic and international voice, data and IP services to residential and mobile voice and data services and IP services to residential and and business customers.
The Caribbeans principal businesses are business customers.
subsidiary operations in Jamaica, Barbados, and the Cayman Islands and an equity holding in Trinidad and Tobago.
The Jamaican market has been liberalising since March 2000.
In addition to Cable & Wireless Jamaica, there are currently two In nearly all the Caribbean countries in which it operates, active competitors in the mobile sector, 10 active ISPs out of a total Cable & Wireless is the incumbent operator, providing domestic of 76 licensed parties, 32 licensed data service providers and two and international fixed and mobile voice and data services and IP competitors in the domestic voice sector.
The international carrier 14 15 2005 Annual Report market has been liberalised since March 2003 and now comprises Trinidad and Tobago to ensure an orderly liberalisation.
68 licensed carriers, of which six are active and interconnect with Panama Cable & Wireless Jamaica.
Nine ISPs offer internet services to end customers over Cable & Wireless network.
Panama 2005 Turnover by service Total turnover: 257 million Barbados Cable & Wireless Barbados Limited Cable & Wireless Barbados, a subsidiary of Cable & Wireless, is the incumbent 1 6 2 operator and provides domestic and international fixed and mobile 1. International Voice voice and data services and IP services to residential and business 2.
Cable & Wireless Barbados generated 18 per cent of the 3.
Cable & Wireless Barbados is the 4.
IP largest telecommunications company in Barbados.
Other 4 The Barbados domestic fixed and mobile voice markets have 3 been liberalising since August 2003, while liberalisation in the data and IP market has been longstanding.
The domestic voice Cable & Wireless Panama S. A.
Cable & Wireless Panama, a telecommunications market is now fully liberalised with three subsidiary of Cable & Wireless, is the incumbent operator and licensed operators, none of which were active at 31 March 2005. provides domestic and international voice, data and IP services to International services were liberalised in February 2005 with two residential and business customers in Panama.
Cable & Wireless licences issued and both operators active in the market using their Panama is the largest telecommunications company in Panama.
Three mobile licences have been issued to competitors in Barbados and two are currently active in the The telecoms market in Panama has been liberalising since market.
Seven ISPs offer internet services to end customers over 2003. International and domestic fixed line services are now fully Cable & Wireless network.
liberalised, whilst Cable & Wireless Panama operates in a duopoly in the mobile market with Telefonica until 2008.
Competition in fixed Cayman Islands line voice services is concentrated in international and long distance Cable and Wireless Cayman Islands Limited Cable & Wireless services with 56 and 32 operators licensed in each segment, Cayman Islands, a wholly owned subsidiary of Cable & Wireless, respectively.
IP services have been liberalised for many years with is the incumbent operator and provides domestic and international 84 licensees.
fixed and mobile voice and data services and IP services to residential and business customers in the Cayman Islands.
Cable & In light of the increased competition and in line with customer Wireless Cayman Islands generated 11 per cent of the Caribbeans demand Cable & Wireless Panama continues to focus on the turnover in 2005.
Cable & Wireless Cayman Islands is the largest development of its mobile and IP capabilities as well as maintaining telecommunications company in the Cayman Islands.
high standards in customer service and retaining its market leading position in fixed line services.
The Cayman Islands market was fully liberalised in early 2004.
At 31 March 2005, 18 new entrants have been licensed in various In the year to March 2005, Cable & Wireless Panama continued its telecommunications, broadcasting and other communication investment in GSM services to enable an expansion of capacity in market sectors.
Most licensees have multiple licences.
In addition order to meet the increase in demand for its services.
Total mobile to Cable & Wireless Cayman Islands, there are currently two active customers increased to 634,000 at 31 March 2005, an increase of competitors in the mobile sector out of the six licensed : two 25 per cent over the prior year.
active ISPs: three active fixed-wireless providers: and one active reseller of telephony services.
Cable & Wireless Panama has also invested in DSL services in the year.
This investment has enabled the launch of a range of Trinidad and Tobago bundled IP solutions for business as well as an increase in access Telecommunications Services of Trinidad and Tobago Limited for residential customers.
At the 31 March 2005, DSL customer TSTT, a 49 per cent equity investment of Cable & Wireless, is numbers were 38,000 an increase of over 123 per cent in the year.
the incumbent operator and provides domestic and international fixed and mobile voice and data services and IP services to During the year to March 2005, Cable & Wireless Panama has residential and business customers.
TSTT is the largest continued to focus on retaining its market leading position in fixed telecommunications company in Trinidad and Tobago.
Activities have focused on customer service improvement and customer retention.
Fixed line customers in Panama have increased The process of liberalisation is under way in the Trinidad and Tobago from 360,000 at 31 March 2004 to 383,000 at 31 March 2005. market although no additional licences have been issued.
TSTT and Cable & Wireless are in negotiations with the government of Profile Business overview Geographic operations Macau Monaco T elecom Macau 2005 Turnover by service Monaco Telecom 2005 Turnover by service Total turnover: 117 million Total turnover 100 million 9.5 months 1 1 6 2 1. International Voice 1. International Voice 2.
Other 3 4 5 6 Companhia fide Telecomunicaes fide Macau S. A. R. L. CTM, a Monaco Telecom S. A. M. Monaco Telecom, a subsidiary of Cable subsidiary of Cable & Wireless, is the incumbent operator in Macau & Wireless, was acquired on 18 June 2004.
Monaco Telecom was offering international and domestic fixed and mobile voice and data created in 1997 following the privatisation of the incumbent and IP services to business and residential customers.
Monaco Telecom provides fixed and mobile voice and data CTM provides an international transit service through its nodes in services as well as IP services.
It holds an exclusive licence to Hong Kong and Singapore serving national and international provide domestic and international fixed and mobile voice services, carriers.
CTM is the largest telecommunications company in Macau.
internet access and cable services in Monaco until 2023.
CTM is the exclusive provider of domestic fixed voice services in The focus within Monaco is on the quality of service while Macau, with the licence expiring in 2011.
The remaining market maintaining pricing parity with neighbouring countries.
Outside segments are fully liberalised with active competition in most sectors Monaco, it is developing its international activities in network from local and international operators.
In the mobile market Macau has issued two further licences for The primary growth opportunities within Monaco are focused on GSM technology and one other licence for CDMA technology.
Since acquisition, mobile subscribers have increased 21 per cent to 35,000.
During the same period, the DSL lines have The internet market was liberalised in October 2000.
CTM is the increased 17 per cent to 7,500. leading provider with only one competitor in the dial-up internet access market, at present there is no active competition in the Monaco Telecom is also focused on maintaining its fixed turnover broadband DSL access market.
contribution from fixed to mobile substitution by creating value added services, customer service improvements, and high value In response to changes in the competitive environment and product bundles.
In addition, Monaco Telecom intends to leverage customer demand, CTM continues to focus on enhancing its fixed its wide portfolio of telecommunication services in the Principality line voice and data services whilst further developing capabilities in by offering convergent communication services and billing.
Outside the Principality, Monaco Telecom has provided network The Macau government is considering the issue of a Third services to a mobile network in Kosovo under a management Generation Wireless 3G licence.
Licensing procedures for contract since 2000.
At the beginning of 2003, Monaco Telecom 3G are expected to be announced in the fourth quarter of was awarded the second GSM licence in Afghanistan as the strategic calendar 2005. partner in a consortium 51 per cent owned by the Aga Khan Fund for Economic Development.
These contracts are included in Other turnover for financial reporting purposes.
16 17 2005 Annual Report Rest of the World Bahrain Cable & Wireless operates in Bahrain through its associate Bahrain Rest of the World 2005 Turnover by service Telecommunications Company B. S. C. Batelco.
Batelco provides Total turnover: 167 million domestic and international fixed and mobile voice and data and IP services to residential and business customers.
1 6 In Bahrain, competition in domestic mobile, in the form of MTC 1. International Voice Vodafone, was introduced in 2003.
Domestic Voice on a similar timeframe.
In the summer of 2004 the market for 2 3.
Data international services and facilities was liberalised.
IP of 2004 a licence to provide national fixed line services was put up 5.
Mobile for sale but as yet no additional licences have been awarded, resulting 6.
Other 3 in Batelco currently being the only licence holder for the provision of 5 4 domestic fixed line services and IP.
Overview Rest of the World comprises Cable & Wireless subsidiary operations in Guernsey and the Maldives together with smaller operations in the Seychelles, Bermuda, Sakhalin in Russia, Diego Garcia, Falkland Islands, Fiji, Ascension, St Helena, Vanuatu, Solomon Islands, Jersey and the Isle of Man.
Cable & Wireless also has an associate holding in Bahrain.
Guernsey and the Maldives account for 60 per cent of the Rest of the World turnover.
In the geographies where Cable & Wireless operates, it is typically the incumbent operator, providing domestic and international fixed and mobile voice and data services as well as IP services.
The status of liberalisation across the Rest of the World is varied.
Most businesses however are currently in transition to liberalised markets.
Further details on the liberalisation status of the Rest of the World can be found in the regulatory section on page 22.
Guernsey Cable & Wireless operates in Guernsey through its wholly owned subsidiary Cable and Wireless Guernsey Ltd Cable & Wireless Guernsey.
Cable & Wireless Guernsey is the incumbent operator in Guernsey providing domestic and international fixed and mobile voice and data services and IP services to all residential, business and government customers.
The States of Guernsey liberalised the market in 2002.
At 31 March 2005, in addition to Cable & Wireless Guernsey, there were two competitors for domestic and international voice and one competitor for mobile.
Maldives Cable & Wireless operates in the Maldives through its subsidiary Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private Limited Dhiraagu.
Dhiraagu is the incumbent operator and provides domestic and international voice and mobile services and IP services to residential and business customers.
The Maldives began liberalisation in 2002.
At 31 March 2005, in addition to Dhiraagu, there was one competitor in the IP market and one licence issued in the mobile market with competition expected to begin in the next fiscal year.
