Statement of accounting policies Basis of preparation The Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and the provisions of the Companies Act, and on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of investments in subsidiaries in the Companys accounts.
The consolidated profit and loss accounts on pages 97 and 99 comply with UK GAAP and UK Companies Act requirements and the directors believe they are in the most appropriate format for shareholders to understand the results of our business.
Depreciation and amortisation including exceptional amounts are presented on the face of the profit and loss accounts because these items are non-cash income.
Exceptional operating costs are also presented on the face of the profit and loss accounts because these amounts relate to events that are not expected to recur.
This presentation is also consistent with the way that the financial performance is measured by management and Cable & Wireless believes this presentation allows a more meaningful comparison to be made of the trading results of the Group for the three years presented.
Use of estimates The preparation of Financial Statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
FRS 18, Accounting policies requires that a description of the impact of any change in estimation techniques should be provided where the change has a material impact on the reported results for the period.
New accounting standards The following new accounting standards were adopted during the year: The Group has adopted Urgent Issues Task Force UITF 38, Accounting for ESOP trusts and UITF 17 revised, Employee share schemes in these Financial Statements.
This has resulted in the adoption of a revised accounting policy for employee share awards in the year.
Details of the effect of prior year adjustments are given in Note 24.
The adoption of UITF 38 resulted in a decrease to shareholders funds representing the reclassification of shares by the ESOP trust held from fixed asset investments to the profit and loss reserve.
Under the revised UITF 17 accounting policy, the estimated cost of share awards is charged to the profit and loss account over the period from the grant date to the date of expected vesting where there are no performance conditions or the performance period where relevant.
The accrued employee entitlement is recorded as a credit within shareholders funds.
The estimated cost of awards is based upon the market value of the shares at the grant date or the difference between the exercise price and the market price at the date of granting the award, adjusted to reflect the impact of performance conditions where applicable.
Where shares are satisfied by on-market purchases the cost of acquiring the shares is deducted from shareholders funds.
The difference between the consideration paid for the shares and the cost of the awards is transferred to retained earnings when the shares vest unconditionally.
In prior years the estimated cost of share awards was initially charged to profit and recorded as a provision using the market value of shares at the grant date.
Where awards were satisfied by on-market purchases, the cost was subsequently adjusted to the actual consideration for shares purchased.
The Group has elected not to early adopt FRS 20, Share based payment for the year ended 31 March 2005.
Basis of consolidation The Group Financial Statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the Company and all its subsidiaries and include the Groups share of the results and net assets of its joint ventures and associates.
The accounts of principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are made up to 31 March.
In the year ended 31 March 2004 Cable & Wireless USA, Inc. and Cable & Wireless Internet Services, Inc. together with certain of their affiliates, were deconsolidated on 8 December 2003 the date on which these companies filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection under the US Bankruptcy Code.
Where subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates have been acquired during the year, goodwill, being the difference between the fair value of consideration given and the fair values attributed to the separable net assets acquired, is capitalised on the balance sheet and amortised through the profit and loss account.
Foreign currencies Average rates of exchange ruling during the year are used to translate the profit and loss accounts of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated at year end rates and any exchange differences arising are dealt with through the profit and loss account.
The net investments in the Groups overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are translated into sterling at year end rates of exchange.
Exchange differences resulting from the translation of opening net investments at rates ruling at the beginning and end of the year, together with the differences between profit and loss accounts translated at average rates and year end rates, are dealt with as movements in Group reserves.
Performance Statement of accounting policies Where net investments are matched in whole or in part by foreign currency borrowings, the exchange differences arising on the retranslation of such borrowings are also recorded as movements on Group reserves and any excess taken to the profit and loss account.
All other exchange differences are dealt with through the profit and loss account.
Tangible fixed assets and depreciation Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less depreciation.
The cost of fixed assets includes directly attributable labour and overhead costs.
Interest that is directly attributable and incurred up to the time that separately identifiable major capital projects are ready for service is also capitalised as part of the cost of assets.
Where the Group has a legal or constructive obligation to dismantle and remove its assets and restore the relevant sites, a provision is made for the estimated costs of the asset retirement obligation.
The present value of the asset retirement obligation is capitalised as part of the initial cost of the asset.
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or projects under construction.
On other tangible fixed assets, depreciation is provided on the difference between the cost of tangible fixed assets and the estimated residual value, in equal annual instalments over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
Depreciation commences when the assets are ready for use.
Assets lives are: Lives Cables up to 20 years Network equipment 3 to 25 years Ducting 40 years Freehold buildings 40 years Leasehold land and buildings up to 40 years or term of lease if less Profits and losses on disposals of tangible fixed assets are determined by reference to sale proceeds and net book values.
Intangible fixed assets From 1 April 1998 intangible fixed assets acquired have been recorded at cost and amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful life, not exceeding 20 years.
Intangible fixed assets primarily comprise goodwill arising on the acquisition of businesses.
Goodwill arising on acquisition prior to 1 April 1998 was eliminated directly against reserves.
This goodwill has been written off as a matter of accounting policy.
The profit or loss on the disposal of all or part of a previously acquired business is calculated after taking account of the gross amount of any goodwill previously eliminated directly against reserves.
Asset impairment Intangible and tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the fixed asset may not be recoverable.
Where an impairment indicator is identified, the carrying value of the income generating unit is compared with its recoverable amount.
Where the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value an impairment is recognised.
Fixed asset investments Joint ventures and associates are accounted for in the Group accounts under the gross equity and equity methods of accounting respectively.
Other fixed asset investments in the Group accounts are stated at cost less amounts written off in respect of any impairments.
Investments in subsidiaries are included in the Company balance sheet at valuation.
Current asset investments Current asset investments are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Tax The charge for tax is based on the result for the year and takes into account tax deferred due to timing differences between the treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable.
Deferred tax assets are regarded as recoverable to the extent that on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
106 107 2005 Annual Report Except where otherwise required by accounting standards, full provision without discounting is made for all timing differences that have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Stocks Stocks of equipment, held for use in the maintenance and expansion of the Groups telecommunications systems, are stated at cost, including appropriate allocation of labour and overheads, less provision for deterioration and obsolescence.
Stocks held for resale are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Discontinued operations The Group complies with FRS 3 Reporting financial performance, in determining the classification of operations as discontinued or continuing.
Group turnover Group turnover, which excludes discounts, value added tax and similar sales taxes, represents the amount receivable in respect of telecommunications services and equipment provided to customers and is accounted for on the accruals basis.
It includes sales to joint ventures and associated companies but does not include sales by joint ventures and associated companies or sales between Group companies.
Turnover from voice, data and IP services is recognised as the services are provided.
In respect of services invoiced in advance, amounts are deferred until provision of the service.
Amounts payable by and to telecommunications operators of national and international networks are recognised as services are provided.
Charges are negotiated separately and are subject to continual review.
Turnover generated through the provision of these services is accounted for gross of any amounts payable to other telecommunications operators for interconnect fees.
Mobile turnover comprises amounts charged to customers in respect of monthly access charges, airtime usage, messaging, the provision of other mobile telecommunications services, including data services and information provision and turnover from the sale of equipment, including handsets.
The Group earns revenue from the transmission of content on its network originated by third-party providers.
The Group assesses whether revenue should be recorded gross as principal or net as agent, based on the features of such arrangements including the following indicators: whether the Group holds itself out as an agent: establishment of the price: provision of customer remedies: performance of part of the service: and assumption of credit risk.
Mobile monthly access charges are invoiced and recorded as part of a periodic billing cycle.
Airtime, either from contract customers as part of the invoiced amount, or from pre-paid customers through the sale of pre-paid top-up cards, is recorded in the period in which the customer uses the service.
Unbilled turnover resulting from mobile services provided to contract customers from the billing cycle date to the end of each period is accrued.
Unearned monthly access charges relating to periods after each accounting period are deferred.
Turnover from sales of telecommunication equipment is recognised upon delivery to the customer.
The total consideration on arrangements with multiple turnover-generating activities generally the sale of telecom equipment and ongoing service is allocated to those components that are capable of operating independently based on the fair value of the components.
Turnover from the sale of the telecom equipment and services is recognised on the basis set out above.
Sales of network capacity to third parties pursuant to IRUs are accounted for as sales and recognised at the time of delivery and acceptance where: the purchasers right of use is exclusive and irrecoverable: the asset is specific and separable: the term of the contract is for the major part of the assets useful economic life: the attributable costs of carrying value can be measured reliably: no significant risks are retained by the Group: and the asset is identified as held for sale and categorised to stock.
Turnover arising from the provision of other services, including maintenance contracts, is recognised evenly over the periods in which the service is provided.
Pensions The regular cost of providing benefits under defined benefit schemes is charged to operating profit over the expected remaining service lives of the Performance Statement of accounting policies members of the schemes so as to achieve a constant percentage of pensionable pay.
Variations from the regular cost arising from periodic actuarial valuations of the principal defined benefit schemes are allocated to operating profit over the expected remaining service lives of the members.
The cost of providing benefits under defined contribution schemes is charged as it becomes payable.
The Group has applied the transitional arrangements of FRS 17 Retirement benefits and appropriate additional disclosures have been included in Note 8.
Leased assets Where assets are financed by leasing agreements that give rights approximating to ownership, the assets are treated as if they had been purchased outright.
The amount capitalised is the present value of the minimum lease payments payable during the lease term.
The corresponding lease commitments are shown as obligations to the lessor.
Lease payments are split between capital and interest elements using the annuity method.
Depreciation on the relevant assets and interest are charged to the profit and loss account.
All other leases are operating leases and the rentals are charged to operating profit on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Debt issue costs The costs of issue of capital instruments are charged to the profit and loss account over the life of the instrument.
Debt issued is initially recorded net of these issue costs.
Debtors Debtors are stated at the invoiced amount less provisions for accounts that are estimated by management to be doubtful.
Provisions are maintained in respect of bad and doubtful debts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of customers to make required payments.
Estimates are based on the ageing of the debt balances and historical experience.
Derivatives Swaps and forward rate agreements The net interest paid or received under any interest rate and cross currency swaps and forward rate agreements FRAs is recorded on an accruals basis and included within net interest in the profit and loss account.
The notional amounts of interest rate swaps and FRAs are not recorded on the balance sheet.
Cross currency swaps are used to hedge the initial draw down and final repayment of certain foreign currency denominated debt, and the related foreign currency interest flows.
Forward exchange contracts Forward exchange contracts are carried on the balance sheet at the difference between the amounts of the payable and receivable currency revalued at the closing exchange rate.
The interest differential, being the difference between the contract rate and the spot rate on the date of entering into the forward exchange contract, is charged to the profit and loss account as interest over the life of the contract.
Exchange gains and losses Exchange gains and losses on revaluation and maturity of any forward exchange contracts and cross currency swaps are treated according to the underlying exposure they hedge: for any contracts that hedge firm third party commitments the exchange gains and losses are recognised in the profit and loss account in the same period as the underlying transaction: for any contracts over underlying currency assets or liabilities the exchange gains and losses are offset against the equal and opposite exchange gains or losses arising on the retranslation of the underlying assets or liabilities: for any contracts taken out to hedge overseas equity investments the exchange gains and losses are taken to reserves to offset against the exchange differences arising on the retranslation of the net assets of the investments on consolidation: and for any contracts that hedge general trading flows the exchange gains or losses are taken to the profit and loss account in the period in which they arise.
Where the underlying exposure changes, or ceases to exist, the contract would be terminated and the exchange gain or loss arising taken to the profit and loss account.
Liquid resources Liquid resources comprise current asset investments and short term deposits, which are readily convertible into known amounts of cash at or close to their carrying value.
Employee Share Option Plan Trust ESOP The financial statements of the Group include the assets and related liabilities of the Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust.
Under the requirements of UITF 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts are stated at cost and deducted from equity shareholders funds.
