Glossary of terms Terms used in this Brief description of meaning Annual Report Access internet access Broadband or dial-up connections which allow customers to access the internet from their own premises.
ADSL A Digital Subscriber Line technology that supports faster transfer when receiving data the downstream rate and slower transfer when sending data the upstream rate.
Alternative network model AltNet refers to a model used by network operators that relies on use of the incumbents network supported by the AltNets own network interconnecting with it.
A legacy data product which allows broadband transmission with an additional layer of intelligence and functionality beyond leased lines.
Backbone A high-capacity network linking networks of lower capacity, such as LANs.
Bandwidth The information-carrying capacity of a network.
Broadband Short for Broad Bandwidth, broadband transmits data at higher rates of speed bits per second than dial-up and is often associated with high speed services for internet access, such as DSL.
Bundling Offering multiple telecommunication products, services or features together as a bundled package instead of as separate items.
For example voice, data transfer and internet access provided in a single contract.
Business segment The UK business segment which focuses on small to medium sized enterprises.
Called-up share capital Ordinary Shares, issued and fully paid.
Capacity sales Sales of transmission capability on a network primarily to high-usage business and wholesale customers.
Carrier services A business segment dealing with other telecommunications companies around the world.
CDMA Code Division Multiple Access or a digital mobile technology which uses the full available radio spectrum to transmit mobile voice and data.
Chapter 11 Restructuring under Chapter 11 of the US Bankruptcy Code.
Company Cable and Wireless plc.
Connectivity Providing customers with access to the internet.
Constant currency Constant currency movement is calculated by retranslating prior year local currency amounts at current year average rates and comparing against current year local currency at the current year average rate.
This measure eliminates the impact of foreign exchange movements year on year.
Content The information contained within a message that is transported by a telecommunication service provider.
Data services Services to transmit data over fixed-line, IP or mobile platforms using leased lines, Frame Relay, ATM or IP-based products such as IP-VPN.
Data service provider Business that provides data or data services to customers.
Typically have high demand for large capacity transport services.
Dial-up Access to the internet using an ordinary telephone line also known as Narrowband.
Digital Sound, text or video coded into binary form, a series of 1s and 0s, to enable more effective transmission.
148 149 2005 Annual Report DSL Digital Subscriber Line or technology that allows the delivery of broadband to customers over ordinary copper telephone lines by digitising and compressing the transmissions.
Encryption The translation of data into a secret code to provide data security.
The data cannot be read without a key or passcode to decrypt the data.
Enterprise segment A business segment dealing with large national and multinational customers in the UK and globally.
Exchange A building, usually owned by the incumbent service provider, where network equipment, such as switches or DSL, are housed.
Fibre optic The use of glass fibres to transmit digital information through laser light pulses.
Fibre optic lines offer more flexibility and capacity than copper telephone lines offer.
Frame relay A legacy data product which allows broadband data transmission with an additional layer of intelligence and functionality beyond leased lines.
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Policies.
Group Cable and Wireless plc and its subsidiaries.
GSM Global System for Mobile communications or a digital mobile platform which allows the transmission of voice and data and global roaming.
Hosting Service that provides a facility or location for customers to set up servers or equipment or house websites.
Incumbent Sole telecommunication provider in a one provider market, or the original telecommunication provider in a competitive market.
Interconnect Connection arrangements between carriers.
Interests in associates and joint ventures Securities of equity investees.
International direct dial International calls which are dialed and connected directly, without going through an operator.
Internet The system comprising all networks interconnected using IP.
The internet supports access to databases, websites, email, and file downloading worldwide.
IP Internet Protocol or set of rules that govern how interconnected devices communicate.
IP-VPN An internet-based network used to provide companies with an internal communications system linking employees in different offices worldwide.
IRU Indefeasible Rights of Use or the right to use a cable fibre or wavelength exclusively for a fixed period of time.
ISP Internet Service Provider or a business that provides internet access to users.
It may also provide additional services such as web-hosting.
LAN Local Area Network or a network that covers only short distances usually less than 1 km and is normally confined to one building or site.
Leased line A legacy data service that delivers data from point-to-point on a dedicated line.
Legacy platform The existing communications and transmission infrastructure that underpins the majority of telecom operator networks usually comprising of copper wire or fibre networks.
Liberalised markets liberalisation Markets that were previously restricted that are now open to competition.
Local loop Telecommunications connection from the local exchange to the customer premises.
Reference Glossary of terms LLU Local Loop Unbundling is the process of installing DSL equipment in rented space within an incumbent operators local exchange.
Managed firewall Service where customer firewalls are managed by Cable & Wireless.
A firewall is a system of hardware and software designed to prevent unauthorised access to a private network.
MMS Mobile Messaging Services or method of transmitting data, video or text over mobile networks and between mobile handsets.
Mobile services Delivery of voice and data services to mobile handsets through wireless technologies.
Mobile transit traffic Telecommunication traffic across the network between mobile operators who do not have a direct connection with each other.
MPLS Multi-Protocol Label Switching supports the separation and management of different types of IP traffic based on priority and service plan.
National Telcos Collectively, the Caribbean, Panama, Macau, Monaco and the Rest of the World.
Network costs Network costs include the purchase of bandwidth, operating and maintenance of equipment, operation of software and cables, wayleaves, customer acquisition costs, cost of goods sold, licences and associated royalties payable to government.
Next Generation Network IP-based network being developed by Cable & Wireless over the three years to fiscal year ending 2008.
Network terminating equipment Telecommunication network elements that originate and or terminate line signals.
Nodes Connecting points on a network.
Ofcom The Office of Communications in the United Kingdom: the independent regulatory body set up under the Communications Act 2003 which has responsibility for the enforcement and monitoring, and where appropriate initiating modification, of telecommunications licences in the United Kingdom.
Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company Common stock with a par value of 25p.
Outpayments Payments to other network operators to carry traffic on behalf of Cable & Wireless customers.
Principal operations The United Kingdom, the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco.
Proposed dividend Dividend declared by directors but not yet approved by shareholders.
Resellers Businesses that provide communication services to consumers by buying capacity from network operators and selling it on.
Reserves Shareholders equity other than paid-up capital.
Share capital Ordinary Shares or capital stock issued and fully paid.
SMS Short Messaging Service permits the transmission of text messages to and from mobile handsets.
SoHo Small office Home office.
Switched voice Abbreviation for telecommunication services provided over the Public Switched Telephone Network, which refers to the international telephone system based on copper wires carrying analog voice data.
TDMA Time Division Multiple Access or digital mobile technology which assigns a specific radio frequency to each user to deliver mobile voice and data.
Telebusiness Telebusiness is any type of telecommunication service provided to businesses to enable them to transact with their customers over the telephone.
150 151 2005 Annual Report Traditional services Voice and data services delivered over fixed-line or switched networks.
Transit A term to describe moving data from a source point to a destination point using various network elements.
United Kingdom Geographic operations which include both the UK Group and Bulldog Communications.
VoIP Voice over Internet Protocol or an IP voice service that provides enhanced functionality, such as the delivery of voice, video and data, with the reliability and features associated with switched voice networks.
VPN Virtual Private Network or a corporate network provided to a customer by a telecommunications operator using elements of a switched network.
To the customer it offers all the features of a private network, such as direct dialling between offices in different countries.
Wavelengths A measurement of capacity on a network.
Web hosting Service providing facilities to hold customer websites.
