Operating and financial review Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Regulatory risk Financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this unforeseen changes in regulation and government policy in the Annual Report.
countries in which Cable & Wireless operates may result in planned business objectives not being met: Cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements exposure to other telecommunications operators and the This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements behaviour of other market participants may have a detrimental with respect to the financial condition, results of operation and effect on the Groups operations: business of Cable & Wireless.
the Group may lose revenue if unlicensed operators are able Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about to gain access to the Groups network: Cable & Wireless beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements.
Words such as believes, anticipates, expects, intends, Risks specific to the telecommunications industry seeks and plans and similar expressions are intended to identify the Groups operations could suffer from adverse effects of forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of competition and price pressures on the demand for products identifying such statements.
These statements are based on current and services: plans, estimates and projections and, therefore, undue reliance should not be placed on them.
Forward-looking statements speak continued overcapacity and other factors could lead to lower only as of the date they are made, and it should not be assumed prices for the Groups products and services: that they have been revised or updated in light of new information or future events.
mobile communications devices may pose health risks: Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties.
Legal and other Cable & Wireless cautions investors that a number of factors could the historic activities of the Groups insurance subsidiary may cause actual results to differ, in some instances materially, from those result in material claims: anticipated or implied in any forward-looking statement.
These factors include: the ongoing US Securities Act Class action might adversely impact the Groups financial condition: Risks specific to Cable & Wireless business the restructuring of the Group may not result in an improvement the Groups withdrawal from the US domestic market may result to performance and financial position: in unforeseen claims against Cable & Wireless: transformation initiatives by the Group may not be successfully changes in the pension regulatory framework and volatility in the implemented: financial markets may require the Group to provide further cash funding to its pension funds: and technological changes in communication and information technology may render the Groups products and services fluctuations in currency exchange rates in the countries where obsolete or non-competitive resulting in an adverse impact on Cable & Wireless operates may adversely affect the Groups financial results: reported results and financial condition.
network or critical IT system failures may expose the Group to Trends and factors that are expected particularly to affect Cable potential liability or loss of customers: & Wireless results are discussed in more detail elsewhere in this Annual Report, including, without limitation, in the Business overview and the Operating and financial review.
56 57 2005 Annual Report Overview The following discussion on Operating and financial performance On 18 June 2004, the Group acquired a 55 per cent economic should be read in conjunction with the Business overview, the interest in Monaco Telecom S. A. M Monaco Telecom for a total Financial statements and the notes thereto.
Monaco Telecom contributed turnover of 100 million and a total operating profit of The Groups continuing operations reported a profit before taxation 17 million for the period from acquisition to 31 March 2005. and exceptional items of 361 million in 2005 as compared with 319 million in 2004 and 96 million in 2003.
The Board has On 17 February 2005, the Group completed the sale of its Japanese recommended the payment of a full year dividend of 3.8 pence per business, Cable & Wireless IDC Inc. IDC to Softbank Corp. for a share.
This represents a 21 per cent increase in the total dividend for consideration of 71.7 million comprising 62.3 million of cash and 2005 compared with 2004.
Softbanks assumption of 9.4 million of debt.
IDC contributed turnover of 199 million and a total operating profit of 13 million, 1 Continuing operations from 1 April 2004 to disposal.
2005 2004 2003 On 28 January 2005, the Group sold its 3.4 per cent stake in Intelsat m m m the satellite communications company for cash consideration of Group turnover 3,023 3,130 3,377 56 million US$104.8 million.
Profit before taxation and United Kingdom exceptional items 361 319 96 Total operating profit before exceptional items increased by 50 million to 82 million in 2005.
The improvement in performance 1 reflected reductions in operating costs and a lower depreciation The full profit and loss account for the Group, which is prepared in accordance with charge following impairment write downs in the prior year.
UK GAAP, and from which the information above is extracted, is set out on pages 97 to 99 of the Financial statements.
A reconciliation of Continuing operations Turnover at 1,602 million was 59 million lower than 2004 primarily Profit loss before taxation and exceptional items to Total Group Profit loss due to regulatory changes in fixed to mobile termination rates.
on ordinary activities before taxation for the three years presented, is set out on page 87 of the Operating and financial review.
To reduce costs and protect margins, an in-depth review of the UK network was carried out and a programme was designed to The markets in which the Group operates continued to suffer address operating costs, interconnection costs and loading.
As a from excess capacity and price pressure.
In this context, the Group result it is expected that the first phase of the programme will cut has set priorities in efficiency and cost cutting as well as investing costs by 50 million in 2006.
The Group believes these savings will to continue to shift its revenue mix toward broadband, IP and mitigate the impact of continued pricing pressure.
This network review also supported the Groups view of the In the year ended 31 March 2005, the Group completed the exit benefits that can be achieved by moving to IP-based Next Generation of its US domestic business, sold its Japanese business and entered Network architecture, and the associated IT systems and processes.
the UK broadband market through the acquisition of Bulldog In April 2005 we announced a programme to invest 190 million Communications Limited Bulldog.
over three years to transform the core UK network into a single integrated IP platform.
A large proportion of the planned expenditure In the UK, the business has been reshaped around three customeris expected to replace expenditure that would otherwise have been focused segments Enterprise, Business and Carrier Services with necessary to maintain legacy UK systems.
As a result the incremental Bulldog focused on the SoHo Consumer segment.
UK customers spend associated with this Next Generation Network over the next are also supported by the Groups operations in Europe, Asia, and three years is expected to be 35 million.
The Group believes the the US CWAO, which are managed centrally from the UK.
benefit of this investment will give the ability to deliver next generation customer services over a less complex, highly scalable The National Telcos have become more proactive in dealing with network capable of accommodating significant growth with lower competition and have focused efforts on competing profitably in operating and maintenance costs.
The Group also believes the UK mobile and broadband, while continuing to pursue cost reduction.
Next Generation Network will support customer demand for new The National Telcos are seeking to reduce costs through a variety services providing greater functionality and customised solutions on of initiatives including the ongoing consolidation of property a competitive basis.
portfolios and data centres, outsourcing the mobile supply chain in the Caribbean and leveraging the strengths of Group wide procurement.
Acquisitions and disposals On 28 May 2004, the Group acquired Bulldog for a consideration of 18.6 million.
Bulldog contributed turnover of 11 million and a total operating loss of 34 million for the period from acquisition to 31 March 2005.
Performance Operating and financial review Overview Bulldog Presentation of results The acquisition of Bulldog was an important step in advancing The analysis and commentary included in this Operating and the Groups access strategy.
Local loop unbundling LLU financial review is based on the Groups geographic operations and strengthens Cable & Wireless presence in the access network reflects the manner in which the business has been organised and market and addresses the needs of the SoHo Consumer managed.
The results for IDC have been classified as discontinued customer segment.
The additional traffic would also increase and prior periods have been amended accordingly.
the use of the existing core UK network.
The Groups operations are all considered to fall into one class of LLU allows Bulldog to put its own equipment inside BTs local business, namely telecommunications.
exchanges to take control of the last mile copper link the local loop to the customers home or office.
The Group believes access The following sections set out, for each of the three years ended to the last mile improves end-to-end control of the network 31 March 2005, turnover, operating costs and operating profit or resulting in lower outpayments to BT and, hence, higher gross margins.
loss of the Group and of the operations: United Kingdom: CWAO: The Group further believes this allows it to innovate, differentiate and Europe:Asia: Bulldog: Caribbean: Panama: Macau: Monaco and Rest control the end-to-end quality of services to business and residential of the World.
In May 2005, Bulldog reached its initial target of unbundling 400 exchanges giving Bulldog coverage of 30 per cent of UK households.
It is now planned to unbundle an additional 200 exchanges by March 2006 and a further 200 exchanges in the first half of 2006 07 bringing the total number of exchanges unbundled to 800.
This will increase the Groups planned investment and startup losses in 2006.
National T elcos The National Telco markets are at different stages of liberalisation and each has its own customer profile, but their competitive challenges are similar.
We expect to continue to respond to these challenges by: reducing the costs of legacy services, where margins are under pressure: investing further in the key growth services of broadband, IP and mobile: and developing sales and marketing skills to stay ahead of the competition.
Many of the countries in which the National Telcos operate have relatively low take-up levels for broadband and IP.
Cable & Wireless believes it is well positioned to offer services that assist customers in the transition.
The Group has started to invest in IP backbones in those countries where traffic volumes justify the expenditure, including in the Caribbean where hurricane damage accelerated infrastructure replacement.
Network upgrades are also under way in Monaco, Macau, the Cayman Islands and Grenada.
Hurricane Ivan adversely impacted Cayman and Grenada and, to a lesser extent, Jamaica.
This resulted in exceptional operating costs of 18 million together with 3 million of asset write-offs and adversely impacted the Caribbeans total operating profit before exceptional items by approximately 11 million.
