Notes to the Financial Statements continued 19.
Notes to the Cash Flow Statement The purchase and sale of investments are considered to be operating activities of the Company, given its purpose, rather than investing activities.
The cash flows associated with these activities are presented below.
2005 2004 000 000 Proceeds on disposal of investments held at fair value through profit or loss 129,978 130,588 Purchases of investments held at fair value through profit or loss 124,590 121,186 Net cash inflow from purchases and disposal of investments 5,388 9,402 20.
Derivatives and financial instruments Background The Groups financial instruments, other than derivative contracts, comprise securities and other investments, cash balances, bank overdrafts and debtors and creditors that arise directly from its operations, for example, in respect of sales and purchases awaiting settlement and debtors for accrued income, short-term debtors and creditors.
The Group has little exposure to credit and cash flow risk.
Any unquoted investments in the portfolio are subject to liquidity risk.
This risk is taken into account by the Directors when arriving at their valuation of these items.
The principal risks the Group faces in its portfolio management activities are: market price risk, i. e. movements in the value of investment holdings caused by factors other than interest rate and currency movements: foreign currency risk: and interest rate risk The Investment Managers policies for managing these risks are summarised below and have been applied throughout the year.
Policy i Market Price Risk By the very nature of its activities, the Groups investments are exposed to market price fluctuations.
Further information on the investment portfolio and investment policy is set out in the Investment Managers report.
ii Foreign Currency Risk A substantial proportion of the Groups portfolio is invested in overseas securities and their sterling value can be significantly affected by movements in foreign exchange rates.
The Group does not normally hedge against foreign currency movements affecting the value of investment portfolio, but takes account of this risk when making investment decisions.
iii Interest Rate Risk The Group has taken advantage of a floating rate bank overdraft facility during the year.
The parent Company had an overdraft of 4.9 million at the year end which was offset by cash held in the Group.
iv Use of Derivatives contracts The Group has entered into a variety of different derivative contracts during the year.
Guidelines agreed with the Investment Manager limit any exposure to options, futures and contracts for differences to a maximum of 10% of the Groups gross assets.
Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 43
