Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Principal activity The principal activity of the Company is that of an investment trust company within the meaning of section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
The principal activity of the two subsidiaries, Merrill Lynch Gold Limited and World Mining Investment Company Limited, is investment dealing.
Accounting policies The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
The Companys financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group and by the Company are set out below.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided under section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to publish its individual income statement and related notes.
a Basis of preparation This is the first year in which the Group has prepared its financial statements under IFRSs and the comparatives have been restated from UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP to comply with IFRSs.
The Group issued its interim report in July 2005 incorporating its preliminary IFRS financial statements for 2004 and the reconciliations to IFRSs from the previously published UK GAAP financial statements are summarised in notes 22 and 23.
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005.
There are no differences between the accounting policies applied in the Group and the Company.
The Group and Company financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the currency of the primary environment in which the Group operates.
All values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except when otherwise indicated.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Trust Companies AITC revised in December 2005. b Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc and the entities it controls its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 December each year Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
All inter-company balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from them, are eliminated.
c Presentation of Consolidated Income Statement In order to better reflect the activities of an investment trust company and in accordance with guidance issued by the AITC, supplementary information which analyses the Consolidated Income Statement between items of revenue and capital nature has been presented alongside the Consolidated Income Statement.
In accordance with the Companys status as a UK investment company under section 266 of the Companies Act 1985, net capital returns may not be distributed by way of dividend.
Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 33
