Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the twelfth Annual General Meeting the directors may deem necessary or expedient in of Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc will be held at 33 King relation to fractional entitlements or any legal or practical William Street, London EC4R 9AS on Friday, 17 March 2006 at problems under the laws of any territory, or the 2.30 p. m. to transact the following business: requirements of any recognised regulatory body or stock exchange, or any other matter whatever: Ordinary business 1.
To receive the report of the Directors and the financial b otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above up statements for the year ended 31 December 2005, together to an aggregate nominal amount of 420,747: with the report of the auditor thereon.
and shall expire on 16 September 2007, except that the 2.
To approve the Directors remuneration report.
Company may before such expiry make offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted 3.
To declare a final dividend of 1.80p per ordinary share.
or sold after such expiry and notwithstanding such expiry the Directors may allot or sell equity securities in pursuance 4.
To elect Mr A W Lea as a Director.
of such offers or agreements.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor to the Company.
That, in substitution for the Companys existing authority to make market purchases of ordinary shares of 5p in the 6.
To authorise the Directors to determine the auditors Company, the Company be and it is hereby authorised in remuneration.
accordance with section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 Special business the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as section 163 of the Act of ordinary shares provided that: an ordinary resolution.
a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby 7.
That the Company shall continue in being as an investment authorised to be purchased is 25,228,000: trust.
b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as share shall be 5p: special resolutions.
c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be 8.
That, in substitution for the equivalent authority granted at paid for an ordinary share shall be the higher of 5% the Annual General Meeting held on 17 March 2005, the above the average of the market values of the ordinary Directors of the Company be and are hereby empowered shares for the five business days immediately preceding pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the the date of the purchase and the net asset value per Act to allot equity securities as defined in section 94 of ordinary share on the date of the purchase: and the Act of the Company for cash, pursuant to the authority d unless renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall conferred by the resolution to allot relevant securities passed expire on 16 September 2007 save that the Company on 19 March 2003 and to sell equity securities within the may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to meaning of section 94 of the Act which are held by the purchase ordinary shares which will or may be completed Company in treasury as defined in Section 162A 3 of the or executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
Act, as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotments and sales, provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment and sale of equity securities: a in connection with an offer of such securities by way of rights, open offer or other offer of securities, to holders of ordinary shares in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their respective holdings of such shares, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 53 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued All ordinary shares purchased pursuant to the above authority shall be either: a cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase: or b held, sold, transferred or otherwise dealt with as treasury shares in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
By order of the Board Merrill Lynch Investment Managers Group Services Limited Secretary 9 February 2006 Registered Office: 33 King William Street London EC4R 9AS Notes: 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote in his stead.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Forms of proxy must reach the office of the Companys registrar by 2.30 p. m. on 15 March 2006.
A form of proxy is provided to shareholders with the annual report.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent a member from attending the meeting and voting in person.
Proxy votes can be submitted electronically at www-uk.
com proxy by using the PIN and SRN numbers printed on the form of proxy.
The latest time for the submission of proxy votes electronically is 2.30 p. m. on 15 March 2006.
If you are a CREST system user including a CREST Personal member you can appoint one or more proxies or give an instruction to a proxy by having an appropriate CREST message transmitted.
To appoint a proxy or to give an instruction to a proxy whether previously appointed or otherwise via the CREST system, the CREST message must be received by Computershare ID number 3RA50 not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp generated by the CREST system from which Computershare is able to retrieve the message.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members should contact their CREST sponsor for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and system timings, please refer to the CREST manual.
The Company may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members at 11.00 p. m. on 15 March 2006 the specified time.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the time applicable to the original meeting, the specified time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
If, however, the meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at any other time specified in that notice.
No service contracts exist between the Company and any of the Directors, who hold office in accordance with letters of appointment and the Articles of Association.
