Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Principal activity The principal activity of the Company is that of an investment trust company within the meaning of section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
The principal activity of the two subsidiaries, Merrill Lynch Gold Limited and World Mining Investment Company Limited, is investment dealing.
Accounting policies The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
The Companys financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group and by the Company are set out below.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided under section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to publish its individual income statement and related notes.
a Basis of preparation This is the first year in which the Group has prepared its financial statements under IFRSs and the comparatives have been restated from UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP to comply with IFRSs.
The Group issued its interim report in July 2005 incorporating its preliminary IFRS financial statements for 2004 and the reconciliations to IFRSs from the previously published UK GAAP financial statements are summarised in notes 22 and 23.
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005.
There are no differences between the accounting policies applied in the Group and the Company.
The Group and Company financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the currency of the primary environment in which the Group operates.
All values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except when otherwise indicated.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Trust Companies AITC revised in December 2005. b Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc and the entities it controls its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 December each year Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
All inter-company balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from them, are eliminated.
c Presentation of Consolidated Income Statement In order to better reflect the activities of an investment trust company and in accordance with guidance issued by the AITC, supplementary information which analyses the Consolidated Income Statement between items of revenue and capital nature has been presented alongside the Consolidated Income Statement.
In accordance with the Companys status as a UK investment company under section 266 of the Companies Act 1985, net capital returns may not be distributed by way of dividend.
Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 33 Notes to the Financial Statements continued d Segmental reporting The Directors are of the opinion that the Group is engaged in a single segment of business being investment business.
e Income Dividends receivable on equity shares are treated as revenue for the year on an ex-dividend basis.
Where no ex-dividend date is available dividends receivable on or before the year end are treated as revenue for the year.
Interest income is accounted for on an accruals basis.
Premiums on written options are recognised as income.
f Expenses All expenses, including interest expenses, are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses have been treated as revenue except as follows: expenses which are incidental to the acquisition or disposal of an investment are treated as capital and separately identified and disclosed in note 10: and expenses are treated as capital where a connection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of the investments can be demonstrated.
g Taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences at the balance sheet date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
This is subject to deferred tax assets only being recognised if it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable profits from which the future reversal of the temporary differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the rates applicable to the legal jurisdictions in which they arise.
h Investments designated as held at fair value through profit or loss Purchases of investments are recognised on a trade date basis and designated upon initial recognition as held at fair value through profit or loss.
The sale of assets are recognised at the trade date of the disposal.
Proceeds will be measured at fair value, which will be regarded as the proceeds of sale less any transaction costs.
The fair value of the financial instruments is based on their quoted bid price at the balance sheet date, without deduction for any estimated future selling costs.
Unquoted investments are valued by the Directors using primary valuation technologies such as earnings multiples, recent transactions and net assets.
This policy applies to all current and non-current asset investments held by the Group.
Changes in the value of investments held at fair value through profit or loss and gains and losses on disposal are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as Gains or losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss.
Also included within this caption are transaction costs in relation to the purchase or sale of investments, including the difference between the purchase price of an investment and its bid price at the date of purchase.
i Other receivables and payables Other receivables do not carry any interest and are short-term in nature and are accordingly stated at their nominal value.
Other payables are non interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
j Dividends payable Final dividends are recognised from the date on which they are declared and approved by shareholders.
k Foreign currency translation Transactions involving foreign currencies are converted at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated into sterling at the rate ruling on the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
