Shareholder Information Financial calendar forms may be obtained from Computershare Investor The timing of the announcement and publication of the Services PLC on 0870 702 0131.
Shareholders who have already Companys results may normally be expected in the months opted for dividend reinvestment do not need to re-apply.
The shown below: last date for registering for this service for the forthcoming dividend is 3 March 2006.
February Preliminary results and final dividend for year announced.
Share price Annual report and financial statements published.
The Companys mid-market ordinary share price is quoted daily in The Financial Times under Investment Companies and in March The Daily Telegraph and The Times under Investment Trusts.
The share price is also available on the Merrill Lynch Investment Managers website at www.
co. uk its March April Dividend paid.
ISIN SEDOL numbers The ISIN SEDOL numbers and mnemonic codes for the August Companys shares are: Interim figures announced and interim report published.
Ordinary Shares Dividend 2005 ISIN GB0005774855 The proposed final dividend in respect of the year ended SEDOL 0577485 31 December 2005 is 1.80p per share.
L The Board has declared a special dividend of 1.00p per share Bloomberg code MLW LN payable on the same date as the final dividend.
Share dealing Investors wishing to purchase more shares in the Company or Ex-dividend date 22 February 2006 sell all or part of their existing holding may do so through a shares transferred without the dividend telephone share dealing service stockbroker.
Most banks also Record date 24 February 2006 last date for registering transfers to receive the dividend offer this service.
Last date for registering DRIP instructions 3 March 2006 For existing shareholders the Companys registrar, Computershare Dividend payment date 24 March 2006 Investor Services PLC, has introduced internet and telephone Payment of dividends share dealing services.
The telephone share dealing service is Cash dividends will be sent by cheque to the first-named available on 0870 703 0084.
To access the internet share shareholder at their registered address.
Dividends may also be dealing service log on to www.
paid direct into a shareholders bank account via BACSTEL-IP To use these services, you will need your shareholder reference Bankers Automated Clearing Service Telecom Internet number, which is detailed on your certificate.
This may be arranged by contacting the Companys registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC on 0870 702 Uncertificated Securities Regulations 1995 CREST 0131 or by completing the Mandate Instructions section on the The Companys shares have joined CREST, an electronic system reverse of your dividend counterfoil and sending this to the for uncertificated securities trading.
Tax vouchers will be sent to shareholders at their registered address, unless other Private investors can continue to retain their share certificates instructions have been given, to arrive on the payment date.
and remain outside the CREST system.
Private investors are able to buy and sell their holdings in the same way as they did prior Dividend reinvestment scheme DRIP to the introduction of CREST, although there may be differences Shareholders may request that their dividends be used to in dealing charges.
purchase further shares in the Company.
Dividend reinvestment 50 Shareholder Information continued Electronic communications lead to aggressive exporting of their metal and mineral Computershare provides a service to enable shareholders to production potentially leading to price reductions.
receive correspondence electronically including annual and interim reports if they wish.
If a shareholder opts to receive There may be exposure to significant currency, political and documents in this way, paper documents will only be available nationalisation risks due to the location of the operation of on request unless electronic submission fails, in which case a companies in which the Company may invest.
hard copy will be mailed to the investors last known address.
Shares of companies in the mining sector can prove volatile Shareholders who opt for this service would receive a Notice of and this may be reflected in the Companys share price.
Availability via e-mail from Computershare with a link to the relevant section of the Merrill Lynch Investment Managers Any investment in the Company will involve an above average website where the documents can be viewed and printed.
risk and is suitable only for financially sophisticated investors.
For more information, to view the terms and conditions and to Past performance is not necessarily a guide to future register for this service, please visit Computershares internet site performance.
The value of your investment in the Company at www-uk.
com investor uk you will need your and the income from it can fluctuate as the value of the shareholder reference number, which is given on your share underlying investments fluctuates.
Duration of the Company Electronic proxy voting Shareholders are given an opportunity at each Annual General Meeting to vote on an ordinary resolution to continue the life of Shareholders are able to submit their proxy votes electronically the Company for a further twelve months.
via Computershares internet site at www-uk.
com proxy using a unique identification Nominee Code PIN which will be provided with voting instructions and the Where shares are held in a nominee company name, the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Company undertakes: CREST members who wish to appoint one or more proxies or to provide the nominee company with multiple copies of give an instruction through the CREST electronic proxy shareholder communications, so long as an indication of appointment service may do so by using the procedures quantities has been provided in advance described in the CREST manual.
More details are set out in the notes on the form of proxy and the Notice of Annual General to allow investors holding shares through a nominee company Meeting.
to attend general meetings, provided the correct authority from the nominee company is available Risk Factors that investors in the Merrill Lynch Investment Trusts Savings As the Company invests worldwide, the value of its shares is Plan are automatically sent shareholder communications, also affected by changes in rates of exchange.
including details of general meetings, together with a form of direction to facilitate voting and to seek authority to attend The price at which the Companys shares trade on the London and Stock Exchange is not the same as their net asset value although they are related and therefore you may realise that investors through the Merrill Lynch Investment Trusts ISA returns which are lower or higher than NAV performance.
or PEP are able to receive the annual and interim reports, including details of annual general meetings, by request.
A lack of growth in world industrial production may adversely affect metal prices.
Nominee companies are encouraged to provide the necessary authority to underlying shareholders to attend the Companys Deteriorating economic conditions in certain countries may general meetings.
Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 51 Shareholder Information continued Publication of net asset value portfolio analysis with other fund managers may be transferred to MLIM for The net asset value NAV per share of the Company is investment in the Companys ordinary shares without affecting calculated daily, with details of the Companys investments and any tax benefits.
For more information on PEP transfers, or an existing Merrill The daily NAV per share and monthly information are released Lynch Investment Trusts PEP, call free on 0800 445522. through the London Stock Exchanges Regulatory News Service and are available on the MLIM website at www.
co. uk its Shareholder enquiries and through the Reuters News Service under the code The Companys registrar is Computershare Investor Services PLC.
MLIMINDEX, on page 8800 on Topic 3 ICV terminals and In the event of queries regarding your holding of shares, please under MLIM on Bloomberg monthly information only.
Changes of name or address must be notified in writing to the registrar at: Internet Other details about the Company are also available on the Computershare Investor Services PLC MLIM website at www.
co. uk its and shareholders can PO Box 82 check details of their holdings on Computershares website at The Pavilions www-uk.
com investor Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 7NH The financial statements and other literature are published on the MLIM website.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that Certain details relating to your holding can also be checked legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation through the Computershare website.
As a security check, and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from specific information needs to be input accurately to gain access legislation in their jurisdiction.
This includes your shareholder reference number, available from either your share certificate or Savings Plan tax voucher.
The address of the Computershare website is The Company participates in the Merrill Lynch Investment Trusts www-uk.
com investor Savings Plan, which facilitates both regular monthly investments and occasional lump sum investments in the Companys General enquiries ordinary shares.
Shareholders who would like information on Enquiries about the Company should be directed to: the Savings Plan should call MLIM free on 0800 445522.
The Secretary Individual Savings Accounts ISA Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc ISAs are a tax-efficient method of investment, introduced by the 33 King William Street Government.
The Company is a qualifying investment for the London EC4R 9AS purposes of investment in the stocks and shares component of Telephone: 0800 445522. either a mini or maxi ISA.
Investors may invest up to 7,000 in the stocks and shares component of a maxi ISA, or up to 3,000 Enquiries about the Savings Plan, ISA or PEP should be directed in the stocks and shares component of a mini ISA.
to: The Companys shares are eligible investments within the stocks Freepost RLTZ-KHUH-KZSB and shares component of the Merrill Lynch Investment Trusts Merrill Lynch Investment Managers Limited ISA, which is a maxi ISA, details of which are available from PO Box 9036 MLIM by calling free on 0800 445522.
Personal Equity Plan PEP PEPs have been superseded by ISAs as the tax-efficient method of investment, but all PEP investments already in force by 5 April 1999 retained their tax-free status in line with ISAs.
