Significant accounting policies The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985. a Accounting convention The separate financial statements of the Company are prepared under the historical cost convention modified for the revaluation of certain land and buildings.
These financial statements are prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Standards which have been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year, except for where changes have been made to previous policies on the adoption of new accounting standards during the year.
The Company has adopted FRS 17, Retirement benefits, FRS 20, Share-based payment, FRS 21, Events after the balance sheet date, FRS 22, Earnings per share, FRS 23, The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, FRS 25, Financial instruments: Disclosure and presentation, FRS 26, Financial instruments: Measurement, and FRS 28, Corresponding amounts, in these financial statements.
The adoption of each of these standards represents a change in accounting policy and the comparative figures have been restated accordingly except where the exemption to restate comparatives has been taken.
Details of the effect of the prior year adjustments are given in Note 12. b Financial year The annual financial statements are made up to the Sunday nearest to 31 December.
This results periodically in a financial year of 53 weeks.
The profit and loss accounts cover the 52 weeks from 3 January 2005 to 1 January 2006 and the 53 weeks from 29 December 2003 to 2 January 2005.
The balance sheets for 2005 and 2004 have been drawn up as at 1 January 2006 and 2 January 2005 respectively.
c Preparation of financial statements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
d Foreign currencies Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates ruling at the end of the financial year.
All profits and losses on exchange are credited or charged to the profit and loss account.
Exchange differences arising on translation of foreign equity investments financed by foreign currency borrowings are dealt with through profit or loss, together with exchange differences on the related borrowings.
e Taxation Corporation tax payable is provided on the taxable profit at the current rate.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted substantively by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
f Investments Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision for any impairment.
Current asset investments are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
g Tangible fixed assets Assets are recorded in the balance sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses with the exception of certain land and building assets which were revalued in 1995.
Depreciation is charged excluding freehold land and assets in course of construction so as to write off the cost of assets to their residual value, over their expected useful lives using the straight-line method.
The principal rates are as follows: Freehold buildings and long leasehold properties 2.5% Plant and machinery 7% 10% Vehicles 12.5% 20% Office equipment 10% 20% Computer hardware 12.5% 33% Report & Accounts 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 167
