Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 33.
Leasing Commitments continued b Operating leases At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2005 2004 m m Within one year 52 57 Between one and five years 133 127 After five years 113 102 298 286 Operating lease expenses charged in the income statement were as follows: 2005 2004 m m 57 66 34.
Contingent liabilities and financial commitments a Cadbury Schweppes plc the Company has guaranteed borrowings and other liabilities of certain subsidiary undertakings, the amounts outstanding and recognised on the Group Balance Sheet at 1 January 2006 being 4,064 million 2004: 3,898 million.
In addition, certain of the Companys subsidiaries have guaranteed borrowings of certain other subsidiaries.
The amount covered by such arrangements as at 1 January 2006 was 3,607 million 2004: 3,592 million.
Payment under these guarantees would be required in the event that the relevant subsidiary was unable to pay the guaranteed borrowings when due.
These guarantees cover the majority of the Groups borrowings of 4,279 million 2004: 4,216 million and have the same maturity.
b Subsidiary undertakings have guarantees and indemnities outstanding amounting to 14 million 2004: 76 million.
c The Company has a contingent obligation to subscribe for loan notes of up to 10 million during the period in respect of which Camelot Group plc has the licence to run the National Lottery at present until 31 January 2009 and for six months after the termination of the licence.
The obligation exists to ensure that Camelot Group plc has sufficient assets to satisfy its liabilities relating to its operation of the National Lottery.
d The Group has given a number of indemnities on certain disposals including as to the ownership of assets and intellectual property, all outstanding tax liabilities, environmental liabilities and product liability claims.
These may expire over a period of time up to the local statute of limitations although for ownership of assets and intellectual property these may be indefinite.
Where appropriate the Group has made provisions for any liabilities which may crystallise.
e Credit risk represents the accounting loss that would be recognised at the reporting date if counterparties failed completely to perform as contracted.
Concentrations of credit risk whether on or off balance sheet that arise from financial instruments exist for groups of customers or counterparties when they have similar economic characteristics that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic or other conditions.
The Group does not have a significant exposure to any individual customer, counterparty, or to any geographical region.
The Group conducts business with banks representing many nationalities, in most cases through offices and branches located in London and maintains strict limits over its exposure to any individual counterparty.
f Group companies are defendants in a number of legal proceedings incidental to their operations.
The Group does not expect that the outcome of such proceedings either individually or in the aggregate will have a material effect on the Groups operations, cash flows or financial position.
