Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Nature of Operations and Accounting Policies a Nature of operations and segmental results Cadbury Schweppes plc the Company and its subsidiaries and associated undertakings the Group is an international confectionery and beverage company which sells its products in almost every country in the world.
The origins of the business stretch back over 200 years.
Cadbury Schweppes has a broad portfolio of well established regional and local brands which include Cadbury, Trident, Halls, Dentyne and Hollywood in the confectionery business and Dr Pepper, Seven Up, Schweppes, Snapple, Hawaiian Punch and Motts in the beverages business.
Significant measures used by management in assessing segmental performance include revenue, underlying profit from operations profit from operations before restructuring costs, non-trading items, impairment and amortisation of goodwill intangibles and IAS 39 fair value adjustments and underlying operating margins operating margins before restructuring costs, non-trading items, impairment and amortisation of goodwill intangibles and IAS 39 fair value adjustments.
b Accounting convention The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the revaluation of financial instruments.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures: and the related amendment to IAS 1 on capital disclosures IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease IFRIC 5 Right to Interests Arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds IFRIC 6 Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specific Market Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group except for additional disclosures on capital and financial instruments when the relevant standards come into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007.
The disclosures required by IFRS1 First time adoption of International Financial Reporting standards concerning the transition form UK GAAP to IFRS are given in Note 40. c Preparation of financial statements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The annual financial statements are made up to the Sunday nearest to 31 December.
This results periodically in a financial year of 53 weeks.
The Income Statements cover the 52 weeks from 3 January 2005 to 1 January 2006 and the 53 weeks from 29 December 2003 to 2 January 2005.
The balance sheets for 2005 and 2004 have been drawn up as at 1 January 2006 and 2 January 2005 respectively.
d Basis of consolidation The financial statements are presented in the form of Group financial statements.
The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of the Company and the entities controlled by the Company including all of its subsidiary entities after eliminating internal transactions and recognising any minority interests in those entities.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain economic benefits from its activities.
Minority interests are shown as a component of equity in the balance sheet and the share of profit attributable to minority interests is shown as a component of profit for the period in the Income Statement.
Results of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the financial year are included in Group profit from the effective date of control.
The separable net assets, both tangible and intangible, of newly acquired subsidiary undertakings are incorporated into the financial statements on the basis of the fair value to the Group as at the effective date of control.
Results of subsidiary undertakings disposed of during the financial year are included in Group profit up to the effective date of disposal.
When the Group intends to dispose of, or classify as held for sale, a business component that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations it would classify such operations as discontinued.
The post tax profit or loss of the discontinued operations would be shown as a single amount on the face of the Income Statement, separate from the other results of the Group.
