Financial Statements for Cadbury Schweppes plc 1.
Significant accounting policies continued g Tangible fixed assets continued Short leasehold properties are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated life of the asset and the life of the lease.
In specific cases different depreciation rates are used e. g. high-speed machinery, machinery subject to technological changes or any machinery with a high obsolescence factor.
Where assets are financed by leasing agreements and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are substantially transferred to the Company finance leases the assets are treated as if they had been purchased outright and the corresponding liability to the leasing company is included as an obligation under finance leases.
Depreciation on assets held under finance leases is charged to the profit and loss account on the same basis as owned assets.
Leasing payments are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements and the interest is charged to the profit and loss account.
All other leases are operating leases and the relevant annual rentals are charged wholly to the profit and loss account.
h Cash flow statement The results, assets and liabilities of the Company are included in the consolidated financial statements of Cadbury Schweppes plc, which are publicly available.
Consequently, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 revised, Cash flow statements.
i Share-based payments The Company has a number of share-based payment plans that certain employees participate in.
Accounting for these is in accordance with FRS 20 and is also in accordance with the Group accounting policy in Note 1 and the disclosures provided in Note 27 to the Group consolidated financial statements which have been prepared under IFRS 2, Share-based payment.
j Pensions The Company accounts for pensions and post retirement benefits in accordance with FRS 17.
The cost of defined contribution retirement schemes is charged as an expense as the costs become payable.
Any difference between the payments and the charge is recognised as a short-term asset or liability.
The Company also participates in the Groups defined benefit retirement schemes.
The Company is unable to identify its share of the assets and liabilities in the schemes on a consistent and reasonable basis.
Therefore the Company has applied the provisions of FRS 17 to account for defined benefit schemes as if they were defined contribution schemes and recognises only the contributions payable each year.
k Revaluation of properties Prior to 1999, freehold and leasehold properties were revalued every five years.
Any overall surplus over book value was credited to the revaluation reserve and any overall deficit below historical cost was charged to the profit and loss account in the year of revaluation.
On adoption of FRS 15 in 1999 the Group decided that no further revaluations would be undertaken.
Transfers are made from the revaluation reserves to the profit and loss reserve each year in order to amortise these revaluation surpluses over the remaining useful lives of the properties.
On disposal the profit or loss is calculated by reference to the net book value at the date of disposal and any unamortised revaluation surplus is transferred from revaluation reserves to retained profits.
Profit and loss account for the year As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for the year.
Cadbury Schweppes plc reported a profit for the financial year ended 1 January 2006 of 309 million 2004 restated: loss of 10 million.
The historical cost profit for the financial year was 309 million 2004 restated: loss of 10 million.
The auditors remuneration for audit services to the Company was 0.5 million 2004: 0.4 million.
The auditors remuneration for non-audit services to the Company was 2.1 million 2004: 1.3 million.
Directors emoluments and employee information The Directors are remunerated by Cadbury Schweppes plc for their services to the Group as a whole.
No remuneration was paid to them specifically in respect of Cadbury Schweppes plc in either year.
Full details of Directors emoluments are given in the Directors Remuneration Report in the Group consolidated financial statements.
2005 2004 m m Emoluments of employees, including Directors, comprised: Wages and salaries 28 26 Social security costs 43 Share-based payments 79 Post-retirement benefit costs 19 6 58 44 An additional contribution of 13 million was made to the defined benefit pension schemes in the year.
2005 2004 Average employee headcount Administrative 659 672 168 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts 2005
