Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Nature of Operations and Accounting Policies a Nature of operations and segmental results Cadbury Schweppes plc the Company and its subsidiaries and associated undertakings the Group is an international confectionery and beverage company which sells its products in almost every country in the world.
The origins of the business stretch back over 200 years.
Cadbury Schweppes has a broad portfolio of well established regional and local brands which include Cadbury, Trident, Halls, Dentyne and Hollywood in the confectionery business and Dr Pepper, Seven Up, Schweppes, Snapple, Hawaiian Punch and Motts in the beverages business.
Significant measures used by management in assessing segmental performance include revenue, underlying profit from operations profit from operations before restructuring costs, non-trading items, impairment and amortisation of goodwill intangibles and IAS 39 fair value adjustments and underlying operating margins operating margins before restructuring costs, non-trading items, impairment and amortisation of goodwill intangibles and IAS 39 fair value adjustments.
b Accounting convention The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the revaluation of financial instruments.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures: and the related amendment to IAS 1 on capital disclosures IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease IFRIC 5 Right to Interests Arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds IFRIC 6 Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specific Market Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group except for additional disclosures on capital and financial instruments when the relevant standards come into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007.
The disclosures required by IFRS1 First time adoption of International Financial Reporting standards concerning the transition form UK GAAP to IFRS are given in Note 40. c Preparation of financial statements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The annual financial statements are made up to the Sunday nearest to 31 December.
This results periodically in a financial year of 53 weeks.
The Income Statements cover the 52 weeks from 3 January 2005 to 1 January 2006 and the 53 weeks from 29 December 2003 to 2 January 2005.
The balance sheets for 2005 and 2004 have been drawn up as at 1 January 2006 and 2 January 2005 respectively.
d Basis of consolidation The financial statements are presented in the form of Group financial statements.
The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of the Company and the entities controlled by the Company including all of its subsidiary entities after eliminating internal transactions and recognising any minority interests in those entities.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain economic benefits from its activities.
Minority interests are shown as a component of equity in the balance sheet and the share of profit attributable to minority interests is shown as a component of profit for the period in the Income Statement.
Results of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the financial year are included in Group profit from the effective date of control.
The separable net assets, both tangible and intangible, of newly acquired subsidiary undertakings are incorporated into the financial statements on the basis of the fair value to the Group as at the effective date of control.
Results of subsidiary undertakings disposed of during the financial year are included in Group profit up to the effective date of disposal.
When the Group intends to dispose of, or classify as held for sale, a business component that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations it would classify such operations as discontinued.
The post tax profit or loss of the discontinued operations would be shown as a single amount on the face of the Income Statement, separate from the other results of the Group.
Report & Accounts 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 97 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1.
Nature of Operations and Accounting Policies continued d Basis of consolidation continued Entities in which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence but does not have the power to control or jointly control are associated undertakings.
Joint ventures are those entities in which the Group has joint control.
The results, assets and liabilities of associated undertakings and interests in joint ventures are incorporated into the Groups financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
The Groups share of the profit after interest and tax of associated undertakings and joint ventures is included as one line below Profit from Operations.
Investment in associated undertaking and interest in joint ventures are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the entity.
All associated undertakings have financial years that are coterminous with the Groups, with the exception of Camelot Group plc Camelot whose financial year ends in March.
The Groups share of the profits of Camelot is based on its most recent, unaudited financial statements to 30 September.
e Segmental analysis Business reportable segments Following the disposal of Europe Beverages, the Groups operational management structure has four business segments, each with its own leadership team.
These four business segments, which are the Groups primary reportable segments, are: Americas Beverages, Americas Confectionery, Europe Middle East and Africa EMEA and Asia Pacific.
Americas Beverages market, produce and distribute branded soft drinks in North America.
Americas Confectionery and EMEA produce and distribute confectionery products in their respective geographical markets.
The Asia Pacific segment is an aggregation of the confectionery and beverages operations in the Asia Pacific region.
Regional teams manage the segments as strategic business units.
They are managed separately because of the differing market conditions and consumer tastes in the different geographies, which require differing branded products and marketing strategies.
The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies.
Secondary reportable segments The Group presents geographical information for the following areas: UK, USA, Australia, Euro zone and Central and Southern Americas.
The Euro zone segment includes all countries that currently operate the Euro and whose central bank interest rates are set by the European Central Bank.
In this way all these countries have similar economic criteria e. g. low inflation, equal interest rates and identical exchange rates with other countries.
As the Euro zone countries are all members of the European Union, they all have similar political conditions.
The Southern and Central Americas all operate in areas of higher than average inflation and central bank interest rates.
The economies of the region are less stable than those of the developed world and have a greater than average risk of significant currency fluctuations.
Basis of allocation of costs between segments Certain central costs are considered to relate to the operating segments where individuals have dual roles or services are provided by a Group function instead of external contractors, for example IT or legal services.
These costs are recharged with a suitable mark-up and settled as other trading intercompany balances.
f Foreign currencies Transaction differences arising from exchange rate variations of monetary items in trading transactions are included within profit from operations whilst those arising on financing transactions are recorded within the financing line.
The functional currency of each of the Companys subsidiaries is the local currency in which each subsidiary is located, or the US dollar where this is deemed to be the functional currency.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of each of the Companys subsidiaries are translated into the functional currency at the rates ruling at the end of the financial year.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in pounds sterling.
The balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries are translated into pounds sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the end of the financial year.
The results of overseas subsidiary undertakings for the financial year are translated into sterling at an annual average rate, calculated using the exchange rates ruling at the end of each four week accounting period.
Differences on exchange arising from the retranslation of opening balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings or date of control in the case of acquisitions during the year to the rate ruling at the end of the financial year are taken directly to the Groups translation reserve.
In addition, the exchange differences arising from the retranslation of overseas profit and losses from average rate to closing rate are taken directly to the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expense in the financial year in which the operations are disposed of.
g Revenue Revenue represents the invoiced value of sales and royalties excluding inter-company sales, value added tax and sales taxes that arise as a result of the Groups sale of branded chocolate, sugar and gum confectionery products and branded soft drinks.
It is stated net of trade discounts, sales incentives, up-front payments, slotting fees and other non-discretionary payments.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have transferred to the buyer, the price is fixed or determinable and collection of the amount due is reasonably assured.
A provision for sales returns is estimated on the basis of historical returns and is recorded so as to allocate these returns to the same period as the original revenue is recorded.
98 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts 2005 h Research and development expenditure Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the financial year in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure is assessed and capitalised if it meets all of the following criteria: an asset is created that can be identified: it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: and the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Capitalised development costs are amortised over their expected economic lives.
Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the financial year in which it is incurred.
i Advertising costs The Group expenses all advertising costs as incurred and no amounts are capitalised for direct response advertising.
j Share-based payments The Group has previously disclosed fair values for share-based payments under US GAAP.
Consequently, as permitted by the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments the Group opted for full retrospective adoption upon transition to IFRS.
The Group issues equity settled share-based payments to certain employees.
A fair value for the equity settled share awards is measured at the date of grant.
Management measures the fair value using the valuation technique that they consider to be the most appropriate to value each class of award.
Methods used include Binomial models, Black-Scholes calculations and Monte Carlo simulations.
The valuations take into account factors such as non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
An expense is recognised to spread the fair value of each award over the vesting period on a straight-line basis, after allowing for an estimate of the share awards that will eventually vest.
The estimate of the level of vesting is reviewed at least annually, with any impact on the cumulative charge being recognised immediately.
k Restructuring costs The restructuring of the Groups existing operations and the integration of acquisitions gives rise to significant incremental one-off costs.
The most significant component of these restructuring costs is typically redundancy payments.
The Group views Restructuring costs as costs associated with investment in future performance of the business and not part of the Groups trading performance.
These costs have a material impact on the absolute amount of and trend in the Group Profit from Operations and Operating margins.
Therefore such Restructuring costs are shown as a separate line item within Profit from Operations on the face of the Income Statement.
Restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been communicated to the affected parties.
A liability is recognised for unsettled Restructuring costs.
l Non-trading items Cadbury Schweppes trade is the marketing, production and distribution of branded confectionery and beverage products.
As part of its operations the Group may dispose of or recognise an impairment of subsidiaries, associates, investments, brands and significant fixed assets that do not meet the requirements to be separately disclosed outside of continuing operations.
These discrete activities form part of the Groups operating activities and are reported in arriving at the Groups Profit from Operations, however management does not consider these items to be part of its trading activities.
The gains and losses on these discrete items can be significant and can give rise to gains or losses in different reporting periods.
Consequently, these items can have a material impact on the absolute amount of and trend in the Group Profit from Operations and Operating margins.
Therefore any gains and losses on these non-trading items are shown as a separate line item within Profit from Operations on the face of the income statement.
m Earnings per Ordinary Share Basic Earnings per Ordinary Share EPS is calculated by dividing the Profit for the Period attributable to Equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing the Profit for the Period attributable to Equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year increased by the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares primarily share options.
Underlying EPS represents Basic EPS, adjusted in order to exclude amortisaton and impairments of brand intangibles, restructuring costs, non-trading items, the IAS 39 fair value adjustment and tax items as described in Note 1 j. n Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired entity at the date of the acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and assessed for impairment at least annually.
Where applicable the asset is treated as a foreign currency item and restated at each year end.
Where an impairment test is performed on goodwill, a discounted cash flow analysis is carried out based on the cash flows of the cash-generating unit CGU and comparing the carrying value of assets of the CGU with their recoverable amount.
These cash flows are discounted at rates that management estimate to be the risk affected average cost of capital for the particular businesses.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Report & Accounts 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 99 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1.
Nature of Operations and Accounting Policies continued n Goodwill continued Upon disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture the attributable goodwill is included in the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
o Brand Intangibles The main economic and competitive assets of the Group are its brands, including the Cadbury and Schweppes brands, which are not on the balance sheet as these are internally generated.
The Group carries assets in the balance sheet only for major brands that have been acquired since 1986.
Acquired brand values are calculated based on the Groups valuation methodology, which is based on valuations of discounted cash flows.
Other intangible assets are treated as local currency assets and are retranslated to the exchange rate in effect at the end of the financial year.
Where the Group licenses the use of a brand then there is no value recognised in the Groups accounts.
No amortisation is charged on over 99% of brand intangibles, as the Group believes that the value of these brands is maintained indefinitely.
The factors that result in the durability of brands capitalised is that there are no material legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factors that limit the useful life of these intangibles.
Furthermore: The Group is a brands business and expects to acquire, hold and support brands for an indefinite period.
The Group supports these brands through spending on consumer marketing across the business and through significant investment in promotional support.
The brands capitalised are expected to be in longstanding and profitable market sectors.
The likelihood that market based factors could truncate a brands life is relatively remote because of the size, diversification and market share of the brands in question.
The Group owns the trademark for all brands valued on the balance sheet and renews these for nominal cost at regular intervals.
The Group has never experienced problems with such renewals.
Where a brands life is not deemed to be indefinite it is written off over its expected useful life on a straight-line basis.
The Group carries out an impairment review of its tangible and intangible assets when a change in circumstances or situation indicates that those assets may have suffered an impairment loss.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Impairment is measured by comparing the carrying amount of a fixed asset or of a cash-generating unit with the recoverable amount, that is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Value in use is calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows, using a discount rate based on an estimate of the rate that the market would expect on an investment of comparable risk.
p Software Intangibles Where computer software is not an integral part of a related item of computer hardware, the software is treated as an intangible asset.
Capitalised internal-use software costs include external direct costs of materials and services consumed in developing or obtaining the software, and payroll and payroll-related costs for employees who are directly associated with and who devote substantial time to the project.
Capitalisation of these costs ceases no later than the point at which the project is substantially complete and ready for its intended purpose.
These costs are amortised over their expected useful life on a straight-line basis, with the lives reviewed annually.
q Property, plant and equipment and leases Assets are recorded in the balance sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Under UK GAAP, certain assets were revalued in 1995 and the depreciated revalued amount has been treated as deemed cost on transition to IFRS.
Depreciation is charged excluding freehold land and assets in course of construction so as to write off the cost of assets to their residual value, over their expected useful lives using the straight-line method.
The principal rates are as follows: Freehold buildings and long leasehold properties 2.5% Plant and machinery 7% 10% Vehicles 12.5% 20% Office equipment 10% 20% Computer hardware 12.5% 33% Short leasehold properties are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated life of the asset and the life of the lease.
In specific cases different depreciation rates are used e. g. high-speed machinery, machinery subject to technological changes or any machinery with a high obsolescence factor.
Where assets are financed by leasing agreements and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are substantially transferred to the Group finance leases the assets are treated as if they had been purchased outright and the corresponding liability to the leasing company is included as an obligation under finance leases.
For property leases, the land and buildings elements are treated separately to determine the appropriate lease classification.
Depreciation on assets held under finance leases 100 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts 2005 is charged to the income statement on the same basis as owned assets.
Leasing payments are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements and the interest is charged to the income statement as a financing charge.
All other leases are operating leases and the relevant annual rentals are charged wholly to the Income Statement.
r Inventories Inventories are recorded at the lower of average cost and estimated net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct material and labour costs together with the relevant factory overheads including depreciation on the basis of normal activity levels.
Amounts are removed from inventory based on the average value of the items of inventory removed.
s Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
t Assets held for sale and discontinued operations Assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and expected to be completed within one year from classification and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Disposal groups are classified as discontinued operations where they represent a major line of business or geographical area of operations.
The income statement for the comparative period has been re-presented to show the discontinued operations separate from the continuing operations.
u Taxation The tax charge for the year includes the charge for tax currently payable and deferred taxation.
The current tax charge represents the estimated amount due that arises from the operations of the Group in the financial year and after making adjustments to estimates in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, except where the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised where the carrying value of an asset is greater than its associated tax basis or where the carrying value of a liability is less than its associated tax basis.
Deferred tax is provided for any differences that exist between the tax base and accounting base of brand intangibles arising from a business combination.
A deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
The Group is able to control the timing of dividends from its subsidiaries and hence does not expect to remit overseas earnings in the foreseeable future in a way that would result in a charge to taxable profit.
Hence deferred tax is recognised in respect of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable or a binding agreement to distribute past earnings in future has been entered into by the subsidiary.
Deferred tax is recognised for unremitted overseas earnings on its associates and interests in joint ventures.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
v Pensions and other post-retirement benefits The cost of defined contribution retirement schemes is charged as an expense as the costs become payable.
Any difference between the payments and the charge is recognised as a short term asset or liability.
Payments to state-managed retirement benefit schemes where the Groups obligations are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme are treated in the same manner.
For defined benefit retirement schemes, the cost of providing the benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent the benefits are vested, and otherwise are amortised straight line over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The current service cost and the recognised element of any past service cost are presented within Profit from Operations.
The expected return on plan assets less the interest arising on the pension liabilities is presented within Financing.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, outside of profit and loss and presented in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
The expected return on plan assets reflects the estimate made by management of the long-term yields that will arise from the specific assets held within the pension plan.
Report & Accounts 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 101 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1.
Nature of Operations and Accounting Policies continued v Pensions and other post-retirement benefits continued The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost and the fair value of any relevant scheme assets.
Where a deep market for corporate bonds exists the discount rate applied in arriving at the present value represents yields on high quality corporate bonds in a similar economic environment with lives similar to the maturity of the pension liabilities.
In the absence of a deep market for such corporate bonds a government bond yield is used.
Any net assets resulting from this calculation are limited to the extent of any past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
w Financial Instruments Following the adoption of IAS 39 from 3 January 2005 the following are the Groups accounting policies for financial instruments.
The comparatives have not been restated for the adoption of the above standards as permitted by IFRS 1 but are presented in accordance with the accounting policies detailed in 1 x.
Recognition Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group's balance sheet when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument on a trade date basis.
Derivative Financial Instruments The Group manages exposures using hedging instruments that provide the appropriate economic outcome.
The Groups policy will be to apply hedge accounting to hedging relationships where it is both permissible under IAS 39, practical to do so and its application reduces volatility, but transactions that may be effective hedges in economic terms may not always qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39.
Due to the nature of many of the Groups hedging and derivative instruments it is unlikely that hedge accounting will be adopted for these hedging relationships.
Consequently, movements in the fair value of derivative instruments will be immediately recognised in the income statement and may lead to increased volatility.
The Group will separately disclose the impact of such volatility.
The Group is exposed to a number of different market risks arising from its international business.
Derivative financial instruments are utilised by the Group to lower funding costs, to diversify sources of funding, to alter interest rate exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities or to achieve greater certainty of future costs.
These exposures fall into two main categories: Transactional exposures The Group is exposed to changes in prices of its raw materials, certain of which are subject to potential short and long term fluctuations.
In respect of such commodities the Group enters into forward and future contracts in order to provide a stable cost base for marketing finished products.
The use of futures contracts enables the Group to obtain the benefit of guaranteed contract performance on firm priced contracts offered by the exchanges and their clearing houses.
In principle these derivatives may qualify as cash flow hedges of future forecast transactions.
To the extent that the hedge is deemed effective, the movement in the fair value of the derivative would be deferred in equity and released to the Income Statement as the cash flows relating to the underlying transactions are incurred.
The Group has transactional currency exposures arising from its international trade.
The Group also enters into certain contracts for the physical delivery of raw materials which may implicitly contain a transactional currency exposure, an embedded derivative.
The Groups policy is to take forward cover for all forecasted receipts and payments including inter-company transactions for as far in advance as the pricing structures are committed, subject to a minimum of three months cover.
The Group makes use of the forward foreign exchange markets to hedge its exposures.
Treasury hedging Interest rate swaps, cross currency interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements are used to convert fixed rate borrowings to floating rate borrowings.
In principle, these derivatives would qualify as fair value hedges of the underlying borrowings.
To the extent that the hedge is deemed effective, the carrying value of the borrowings would be adjusted for changes in their fair value attributable to changes in interest rates through the Income Statement.
There would also be an adjustment to the income statement for the movement in fair value of the hedging instrument that would offset, to the extent that the hedge is effective, the movement in the carrying value of the underlying borrowings.
Interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements are used to convert a proportion of floating rate borrowings to fixed rate.
In principle, these transactions would qualify as cash flow hedges of floating rate borrowings.
To the extent that the hedge is deemed effective the movement in the fair value of the derivative would be deferred in equity and released to the income statement as the cash flows relating to the underlying borrowing are incurred.
However, where these transactions hedge another derivative e. g. fixed to floating rate interest rate swap, they would not qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39 because the risk being hedged is a risk created by the use of derivatives.
102 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts 2005 Forward currency contracts and currency swaps are used to convert the currency of floating rate borrowings.
In principle, the majority of these derivatives would qualify as net investment hedges of the exchange exposure on our net investment in foreign operations.
To the extent that the hedge is deemed effective, the gains or losses on fair valuation of the hedging instruments would be deferred in equity, where they would at least partially offset the gain or loss on retranslation of the net investment in the foreign operations, and be recycled to the Income Statement only on disposal of the foreign operation to which it relates.
Where it is neither practical nor permissible to apply hedge accounting to the Groups derivative instruments, the movements in the fair value of these derivative instruments will be immediately recognised in the Income Statement within financing.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Appropriate allowances for estimated, irrecoverable amounts are recognised in profit or loss when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
The allowance recognised is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
Trade payables Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value plus any transaction costs associated with the issue of the relevant financial liability.
Subsequent to initial measurement, borrowings are measured at amortised cost with the borrowing costs being accounted for on an accrual basis in profit and loss using the effective interest method.
At the balance sheet date accrued interest is recorded separately from the associated borrowings within current liabilities.
x Groups accounting policies for financial instruments prior to adoption of IAS 39 The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk, interest rate movements and movement in raw material costs.
To qualify as a hedge, a financial instrument must be related to actual assets or liabilities or to a firm commitment or anticipated transaction.
Gains and losses on hedges of existing assets or liabilities are included in the carrying amount of those assets or liabilities and are ultimately recognised in the profit and loss as part of those carrying amounts.
Gains and losses on qualifying hedges of firm commitments or anticipated transactions are also deferred and are recognised in the profit and loss account or as adjustments of carrying amounts when the hedged transaction occurs.
Gains and losses on financial instruments that do not qualify as hedges are recognised as other income or expense.
If a financial instrument ceases to be a hedge, for example because the underlying hedged position is eliminated, the instrument is marked to market and any gains or losses recognised as other income or expense.
Debt instruments Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds after deduction of issue costs.
The carrying amount is increased by the finance cost in respect of the accounting period and reduced by payments made in the period.
y Management performance measures Cadbury Schweppes believes that Underlying Profit from Operations, Underlying Profit before Tax, Underlying Earnings and Underlying Earnings per Share provide additional useful information on underlying trends to shareholders.
These measures are used by Cadbury Schweppes management for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation arrangements for employees.
The term underlying is not a defined term under IFRS or US GAAP, and may not therefore be comparable with similarly titled profit measurements reported by other companies.
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measurements of profit.
As the Group has chosen to present an alternative Earnings per Share measure a reconciliation of this alternative measure to the statutory measure required by IFRS is given in Note 13.
The principal adjustments made to reported profit are summarised below: Restructuring costs the costs incurred by the Group in implementing the Fuel for Growth programme and integrating acquired businesses are classified as Restructuring.
These are programmes involving significant one-off incremental costs.
The Group views Restructuring as costs associated with investment in the future performance of the business and not part of the underlying performance trends of the business: Impairment and Amortisation of brand intangibles under IFRS, the Group continues to amortise certain short-life brand intangibles.
This amortisation, or any impairment charge, is not considered to be reflective of the underlying trading of the Group: Non trading items whilst the gain or loss on the disposal or impairment of subsidiaries, associates, investments and fixed assets form part of the Groups operating activities, the Group does not consider them to form part of its trading activities.
The gains and losses on these discrete items can be significant and can have a material impact on the absolute amount of, and trend in, the Group Profit from Operations and operating margins.
Any gains and losses on these non-trading items are therefore excluded on any such gains or losses in arriving at its Underlying Profit from Operations: and Report & Accounts 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 103
