General Information and Accounting Policies a The Summary Financial Statement has been prepared using accounting policies consistent with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as endorsed by the European Union.
The Group accounting policies are included within the Report & Accounts 2005. b Use of management performance measures We believe that Underlying Profit from Operations, Underlying Profit before Tax, Underlying Earnings and Underlying Earnings per Share provide additional information on underlying trends to shareowners.
These measures are used for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation arrangements for employees.
The term underlying is not a defined term under IFRS, and may not therefore be comparable with similarly titled profit measurements reported by other companies.
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to IFRS measurements of profit.
The adjustments made to reported profit are summarised below: Restructuring costs the costs we are incurring in implementing the Fuel for Growth programme and integrating acquired businesses are classified as Restructuring.
These are programmes involving one-off incremental items of major expenditure.
We view Restructuring costs as costs associated with investment in the future performance of the business and not part of the underlying performance trends of the business: Impairment and Amortisation of brand intangibles under IFRS, we continue to amortise certain short-life brand intangibles.
This amortisation is not considered to be reflective of the underlying trading of the Group: Non-trading items whilst the gain or loss on the disposal or impairment of subsidiaries, associates, investments and fixed assets form part of the Groups operating activities, the Group does not consider them to form part of its trading activities.
The gains and losses on these discrete items can be significant and can have a material impact on the absolute amount of, and trend in, the Group Profit from Operations and operating margins.
Any gains and losses on these non-trading items are therefore excluded on any such gains or losses in arriving at its Underlying Profit from Operations: IAS 39 adjustments fair value accounting we seek to apply IAS 39 hedge accounting to hedge relationships principally under commodity contracts, foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swaps where it is permissible, practical to do so and reduces overall volatility.
Due to the nature of our hedging arrangements, in a number of circumstances we are unable to apply hedge-accounting.
We continue, however, to enter into these arrangements as they provide certainty of price and delivery for the commodities we purchase, the exchange rates applying to the foreign currency transactions we enter into and the interest rate that applies to our debt.
These arrangements result in fixed and determined cash-flows.
We believe that these arrangements remain effective, economic and commercial hedges: The effect of not applying hedge accounting under IAS 39 means that the reported results reflect the actual rate of exchange and commodity price ruling on the date of a transaction regardless of the cash flow paid at the predetermined rate of exchange and commodity price.
In addition, any gain or loss accruing on open contracts at a reporting period end is recognised in the result for the period regardless of the actual outcome of the contract on close-out.
While the impacts described above could be highly volatile depending on movements in exchange rates or commodity prices, this volatility will not be reflected our cash flows, which will be based on the fixed or hedged rate.
Therefore we make an adjustment to exclude these effects from our underlying performance measures: and Tax adjustments the tax impact of the above items are also excluded in arriving at Underlying Earnings.
In addition, from time to time there may be tax items that as a consequence of their size and nature are excluded from underlying earnings.
In 2005, the Group has recognised a net deferred tax asset in the UK for the first time, which has resulted in a 104 million credit to the current year taxation charge.
In addition an intra-group transfer of certain intellectual property rights in anticipation of the disposal of Europe Beverages has resulted in the recognition of an 11 million deferred tax credit in arriving at profit for the period from discontinued operations.
As a consequence of their size and one-off nature, these amounts have been excluded from the underlying results of the Group.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 31
