Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1.
Nature of Operations and Accounting Policies continued y Management performance measures continued IAS 39 adjustments fair value accounting under IAS 39, the Group seeks to apply hedge accounting to hedge relationships principally under commodity contracts, foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swaps where it is permissible, practical to do so and reduces overall volatility.
Due to the nature of its hedging arrangements, in a number of circumstances, the Group is unable to obtain hedge accounting.
The Group continues, however, to enter into these arrangements as they provide certainty of price and delivery for the commodities purchased by the Group, the exchange rates applying to the foreign currency transactions entered into by the Group and the interest rate applying to the Groups debt.
These arrangements result in fixed and determined cash flows.
The Group believes that these arrangements remain effective, economic and commercial hedges.
The effect of not applying hedge accounting under IAS 39 means that the reported Profit from Operations reflects the actual rate of exchange and commodity price ruling on the date of a transaction regardless of the cash flow paid by the Group at the predetermined rate of exchange and commodity price.
In addition, the movement in the fair value in the period of open contracts is recognised in the Financing charge for the period.
Whilst the impacts described above could be highly volatile depending on movements in exchange rates, interest yields or commodity prices, this volatility will not be reflected in the cash flows of the Group, which will be determined by the fixed or hedged rate.
The volatility introduced as a result of not applying hedge accounting under IAS 39 has been excluded to reflect the cash flows that occur under the Groups hedging arrangements.
Tax adjustments In order to provide comparable earnings information the tax impact of the above items are also excluded in arriving at underlying earnings.
In addition, from time to time, there may be tax items that as a consequence of their size and nature are excluded from underlying earnings.
In 2005, we recognised a net deferred tax asset in the UK for the first time, which has resulted in a 104 million credit to the current year taxation charge.
In addition, an intra-Group transfer of certain non-tax deductible intellectual property rights undertaken in anticipation of the disposal of Europe Beverages has resulted in the recognition of an 11 million tax credit in arriving at the profit for the period from discontinued operations.
As a consequence of their size and one-off nature, these amounts have been excluded from the underlying earnings of the Group.
Revenue An analysis of the Groups revenue is as follows: 2005 2004 m m Continuing operations Sale of goods Confectionery 4,261 3,968 Beverages 2,238 2,107 1 Rendering of services 910 6,508 6,085 Investment revenue note 9 42 48 Discontinued operations note 32 649 653 7,199 6,786 1 Rendering of services relates to research and development work performed and invoiced to third parties by the Companys S&T facilities.
