NOTES TO ACCOUNTS 1 Principal Accounting Policies ii Interest from fixed interest securities is f Taxation A summary of the principal accounting recognised on an accruals basis.
Fixed Deferred taxation is provided on all timing policies, which are unchanged from last interest securities issued at a significant differences which have originated but not year and have been applied consistently, is discount or premium are accounted for reversed by the balance sheet date, set out below.
on an effective yield basis.
calculated at the current tax rate relevant to the benefit or liability.
Deferred tax assets a Basis of Accounting iii Unfranked investment income includes The accounts are prepared under the are recognised only to the extent that it is the taxes deducted at source.
more likely than not that there will be historical cost convention, modified to include the revaluation of fixed asset taxable profits from which underlying timing iv Franked investment income is stated net differences can be deducted.
investments, and on the assumption that of tax credits.
approval as an investment trust will g Foreign Currencies continue to be granted.
v Underwriting commission and interest Transactions involving foreign currencies receivable on deposits are recognised The accounts have been prepared in are converted at the rate ruling at the time on an accruals basis.
accordance with applicable UK accounting of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities in standards and with the revised Statement vi If scrip is taken in lieu of dividends in foreign currencies are translated at the of Recommended Practice Financial cash, the net amount of the cash closing rates of exchange at the balance Statements of Investment Trust Companies dividend declared is credited to the sheet date with the exception of forward issued in January 2003, which has not led revenue account.
foreign exchange contracts which are to any changes in accounting policy.
valued at the forward rate ruling at the d Expenses balance sheet date.
Any gain or loss b Investments All expenses are accounted for on an arising from a change in exchange rate Listed investments are shown at middle accruals basis and are charged through subsequent to the date of the transaction is market value, or in the case of FTSE 100 the revenue account except where they included as an exchange gain or loss in constituents, at last traded prices issued by relate directly to the acquisition or disposal capital reserve or revenue reserve as the London Stock Exchange.
of an investment, in which case they are appropriate.
added to the cost of the investment or Listed investments include Open Ended deducted from the sale proceeds.
h Capital Reserves Investment Companies OEICs authorised i Capital Reserves Realised: in the UK: these are valued at mid price e Long Term Borrowings and Finance Gains and losses on realisation of and are classified for valuation purposes Costs investments and realised exchange according to the principal geographical Long term borrowings are carried in the differences of a capital nature are dealt area of the underlying holdings.
balance sheet at the cumulative amount of with in this reserve.
Purchases of the net proceeds after issue, plus accrued Companys own shares for cancellation Unlisted investments are shown at a finance costs.
The finance costs of such are also funded from this reserve.
valuation determined by the Directors borrowings are allocated to the revenue based upon latest dealing prices, ii Capital Reserves Unrealised: account at a constant rate on the carrying stockbroker valuations, net asset values and Unrealised appreciation depreciation amount.
Issue costs are written off at a other information, as appropriate.
represents the amount by which the constant rate over the life of the market value of assets and liabilities borrowings.
c Income differs from their book value and is i Income from equity investments is dealt with in this reserve.
brought into account on the date on which the investments are quoted exdividend or, where no ex-dividend date is quoted, when the Companys right to receive payment is established.
