NOTES TO ACCOUNTS The Companys financial instruments, which Interest Rate Risk 22 Contingent Liabilities, provide finance for investment activities, The Company finances its operations by Guarantees and Financial currently comprise its debenture stocks and its means of equity shareholders funds, bank Commitments cash and liquid resources.
In addition to the borrowings and the issue of debenture stocks.
At 30 April 2005 the Company had equity portfolio, the Company maintains The value of the Companys bond portfolio is contingent liabilities of 20,500,000 2004 investments in UK and overseas corporate subject to interest rate risk.
It is not the 20,500,000 in respect of a subscription bonds as part of its investment strategy.
Companys policy to hedge this risk.
agreement relating to participating loan notes The Company may, from time to time, enter The Company maintains a 5 million which expire on 31 December 2005. into derivative transactions to hedge specific undrawn overdraft facility with The Bank of currency or interest rate risk.
23 Directors Interests in Contracts the Company took out a forward currency The Company has issued fixed interest contract to hedge against further dollar No Director has a contract of service with debenture stocks.
weakness, for a sum of US$200m equivalent the Company.
to about 50% of its US portfolio.
At 30 April During the year no Director was interested 2005 there was an unrealised gain of Credit Risk in any contract or other matter requiring 1,208,000 on this contract see note 10 on In addition to interest rate risk, the Companys disclosure under section 232 of the page 44.
The contract was closed subsequent investments in bonds are also subject to credit Companies Act 1985. to the year end, realising a loss of 3.3m.
Credit risk reflects the possibility that a borrower will not be able to meet its The Company has precisely defined obligation to make payments of interest or 24 Derivatives and Other Financial guidelines to govern the purchase or writing principal when they fall due.
The Managers Instruments of options on individual shares.
No options analyse the credit risk of the Companys bond were purchased or written in the year under The Company operates as an investment trust investments prior to purchase and continue to review.
in accordance with section 842 of the monitor developments in credit quality Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
Trading in financial instruments is not within subsequently.
The international nature of the Companys the normal activities of an investment trust, nor investment activities provides opportunities for is it the Companys policy to trade in such Liquidity Risk both market appreciation and currency gains, instruments.
Transactions in financial The Companys policy with regard to liquidity but leaves it exposed to the risk of market instruments generally arise as a result of is to ensure continuity of funding.
Short term volatility and currency fluctuations.
flexibility is achieved by overdraft facilities.
In the case of an investment trust, capital The Companys Managers may not enter into The Companys assets comprise mainly profits from investing activities and currency derivative transactions without the prior readily realisable securities which can be sold gains are not recognised in the revenue approval of the Board, and all borrowing freely to meet funding commitments if account, but are credited directly to a facilities require Board authorisation.
separate capital reserve which the Company Board agrees policies for managing risk with is prohibited from distributing in the form of the Companys Managers.
The main risks Foreign Currency Risk dividends.
arising from the Companys financial The international nature of the Companys instruments are market risk, interest rate risk, The Company has long term borrowings, investment activities gives rise to a currency credit risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency detailed in note 14, the aim of which is to risk which is inherent in the performance of its risk.
achieve improved performance in rising overseas investments.
It is not the Companys markets.
Further information on the policy to hedge this risk on a continuing Market Risk Companys gearing policy is given in the basis, but the Company may from time to The Company is exposed to market risk due Chairmans Statement.
time match specific overseas investment with to fluctuations in the market prices of its foreign currency borrowings.
The Companys revenue account may be investments.
The Companys Managers affected by fluctuations in short term interest actively monitor market and economic data The revenue account is subject to currency rates: income from overseas investment can and report to the Board, which considers fluctuation arising on overseas income.
The be affected by currency fluctuations.
investment policy on a regular basis.
Company does not hedge this currency risk.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 49
