FURTHER SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Further Shareholder Information How to Invest Share Register Enquiries This is not a recommendation to buy, sell The Companys shares are traded on the Computershare Investor Services PLC or hold shares in Monks.
If you are unsure London Stock Exchange.
They can be maintains the share register on behalf of of what action to take contact a financial bought by placing an order with a the Company.
In the event of queries adviser authorised under the Financial stockbroker, by asking a professional regarding shares registered in your own Services and Markets Act 2000.
Please adviser to do so, or through the Baillie name, please contact the Registrars on note that share values may go down as Gifford savings vehicles see inside back 0870 702 0010.
By quoting the well as up, which may result in you cover for details.
reference number on your share certificate receiving less than what you originally you can check your holding on the invested.
Registrars web site at Sources of Further Information on the www-uk.
com investor Computershare Investor Services PLC is Company authorised and regulated by the Financial The price of shares is quoted daily in the Services Authority.
Financial Times and can also be found on Telephone Share Dealing Service the Baillie Gifford website at A telephone share dealing service has Where this has been received in a country www.
com, Trustnet at been established with our Registrar, where the provision of such a service www.
co. uk and on other financial Computershare Investor Services PLC, would be contrary to local laws or websites.
Company factsheets are also which provides shareholders with a way of regulations, this should be treated as available on the Baillie Gifford website buying or selling Monks Investment Trust information only.
These are PLC ordinary shares on the London Stock available from Baillie Gifford on request.
There are no forms to complete Electronic Proxy Voting and the share price at which you deal will If you hold stock in your own name you Key Dates generally be confirmed to you whilst you can choose to vote by returning proxies Ordinary shareholders normally receive two are still on the telephone.
Please ensure electronically at dividends in respect of each financial year.
you have your Shareholder Reference www-uk.
com proxy An interim dividend is paid in February and Number SRN ready when making the a final dividend is paid in August.
The If you have any questions about this service call.
The SRN appears on your share AGM is normally held in July August.
please contact Computershare on 0870 certificate.
For further information about this 702 0000. service please phone 0870 702 0000.
Capital Gains Tax Please note that this share dealing service For Capital Gains Tax indexation CREST Proxy Voting is not available to shareholders If you are a user of the CREST system purposes, the market value of an ordinary participating in the Baillie Gifford share in the Company as at 31 March including a CREST Personal Member, you Investment Trust Share Plan, Childrens may appoint one or more proxies or give 1982 as adjusted for the five for one Savings Plan, ISA and PEP.
an instruction to a proxy by having an THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 51
