Monks is an investment trust.
Investment Risks To appoint a proxy or to give an instruction trusts offer investors the following: Past performance is no guarantee of future to a proxy whether previously appointed performance.
The capital value of and participation in a diversified portfolio or otherwise via the CREST system, the income distributed by an investment trust of shares: CREST message must be received by the can go down as well as up and an issuers agent ID number 3RA50 not later constant supervision by experienced investor may not get back the amount than 48 hours before the time appointed professional managers: and originally invested.
The price of an for holding the meeting.
For this purpose, investment trust share will fluctuate in the Company is free from capital gains the time of receipt will be taken to be the accordance with supply and demand and tax on capital profits realised within its time as determined by the timestamp may not reflect the underlying net asset portfolio although investors are still liable generated by the CREST system from value.
for capital gains tax on profits when which the issuers agent is able to retrieve selling their investment.
Investment trusts can borrow money to the message.
CREST Personal Members or make further investments, which is These accounts have been approved by the other CREST sponsored members should commonly referred to as gearing.
The risk Directors of Monks Investment Trust PLC.
contact their CREST sponsors for assistance is that when this money is repaid by the Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited with appointing proxies via CREST.
For trust, the value of these investments may not is the ISA Manager of the Baillie Gifford further information on CREST procedures, be enough to cover the borrowing and Investment Trust ISA, the PEP Manager of limitations and systems timings, please refer interest costs and the trust makes a loss.
If the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust PEP, the to the CREST Manual.
The Company may the trusts investments fall in value, gearing Manager of the Baillie Gifford Investment treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent will increase the amount of the loss in value Trust Share Plan and Childrens Savings by CREST in the circumstances set out in to investors.
The more highly the trust is Plan and the promoter of the Baillie Gifford Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated geared, the greater this effect will be.
Alliance Trust Savings Securities Regulations 2001.
Limited is the provider, trustee and Computershare Investor Services PLC is As Monks invests in overseas securities, administrator of the Alliance Trust Personal authorised and regulated by the Financial changes in the rates of exchange may also Pension Plan through which the Baillie Services Authority.
cause the value of your investment to go Gifford Select Pension is made available.
Where this has been received in a country Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited where the provision of such a service The value of ISA and PEP tax advantages is wholly owned by Baillie Gifford & Co. would be contrary to local laws or will depend on personal circumstances.
Both are authorised and regulated by the regulations, this should be treated as The tax rates and reliefs may change in the Financial Services Authority.
only provides information about its products and does not provide investment advice.
The staff of Baillie Gifford may hold shares in Monks and may buy or sell such shares.
52 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Monks shares are traded on the London Baillie Giffords Investment Stock Exchange.
They can be bought Trust PEP Transfer through a stockbroker, by asking a You can transfer an existing PEP to access professional adviser to do so, or through a different market or to change your the Baillie Gifford savings vehicles see investment manager minimum value of below.
Baillie Giffords Investment Baillie Gifford Select Pension Trust Share Plan The Baillie Gifford Select Pension provided You can invest from 250 or from 30 per by Alliance Trust Savings Limited, is a selfmonth.
The plan is designed to be a costinvested personal pension.
The minimum effective way of saving on a regular or contribution amount is 50. lump sum basis.
Further Information Baillie Giffords Investment Client Relations Team Trust ISA Baillie Gifford Savings Management You can invest in a tax efficient way by Limited investing a minimum of 2,000 or from Calton Square 250 per month or by transferring an ISA 1 Greenside Row with a value of at least 2,000 from your EDINBURGH EH1 3AN existing manager.
Tel: 0800 027 0133 Baillie Giffords Childrens We may record your call Savings Plan A cost-effective plan tailored especially to E-mail: trustenquiries@bailliegifford.
com meet the requirements to save for children.
com You can invest a minimum of 250 or from 30 per month.
Fax: 0131 275 3955 Directors Registered Office Registrar Broker Auditor Chairman: Computershare Investor Computershare Investor UBS Limited  LLP Sir Charles Nunneley Services PLC Services PLC 1 Finsbury Avenue Chartered Accountants and 2nd Floor PO Box 82 London EC2M 2PP Registered Auditors CC Ferguson Vinters Place The Pavilions Tel: 0207 567 8000 Erskine House JGD Ferguson 68 Upper Thames Street Bridgwater Road PO Box 90 EM Harley London EC4V 3BJ Bristol BS99 7NH 68 73 Queen Street DCP McDougall Tel: 0870 702 0010 Edinburgh EH2 4NH Company registration No.
236964 Managers and Secretaries Baillie Gifford & Co Calton Square 1 Greenside Row Edinburgh EH1 3AN Tel: 0131 275 2000 website: www.
