NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the offices of the Institution of Electrical Engineers, Savoy Place, London WC2R 0BL on 2 August 2005 at 11.00 am.
If you have any queries as to how to vote or how to attend the meeting, please call us on 0800 027 0133.
Baillie Gifford may record your call.
Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the seventy-sixth ordinary shares of 5p each in the capital By Order of the Board of the Company Shares, provided Annual General Meeting of The Monks Investment Trust PLC will be held within the that: Baillie Gifford & Co offices of the Institution of Electrical Engineers, Managers and Secretaries a the maximum aggregate number of Savoy Place, London WC2R 0BL on 1 July 2005 Shares hereby authorised to be Tuesday, 2 August 2005, at 11.00 am for purchased shall be 14.99% of the the following purposes: Notes issued ordinary share capital on the 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the date on which this resolution is meeting is entitled to appoint one or more passed: Ordinary Business proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote on his 1.
To approve the Accounts of the her behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of b the minimum price which may be the Company.
A Form of Proxy for the use of Company for the year to 30 April 2005 paid for a Share shall be 5p: members is enclosed and to be valid must be with the Reports of the Directors and of lodged with the Registrars of the Company not the Auditors thereon.
c the maximum price exclusive of less than 48 hours before the time set for the expenses which may be paid for a meeting.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Share shall be an amount equal to 2.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Report.
105% of the average of the middle Securities Regulations 2001, the Company market quotations as derived from the specifies that only those shareholders entered on 3.
the Register of Members of the Company as at Daily Official List of the London Stock 11.00 am on 31 July 2005 or, in the event Exchange for the Shares for the 4.
To re-elect Mr JGD Ferguson as a that the meeting is adjourned, on the Register of 5 business days immediately Director.
Members 48 hours before the time of any preceding the date of purchase: and adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend or 5.
To re-appoint  vote at the meeting in respect of the number of d unless previously varied, revoked or ordinary shares registered in their name at that LLP as Auditors.
renewed by the Company in general time.
Changes to the entries on the Register of Members after 11.00 am on 31 July 2005 or, meeting, the authority hereby 6.
To authorise the Directors to determine in the event that the meeting is adjourned, in the conferred shall expire at the the remuneration of the Auditors.
Register of Members 48 hours before the time conclusion of the Annual General of any adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded Meeting of the Company to be held in determining the rights of any person to attend To consider and, if thought fit, pass the in respect of the year ending 30 April or vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any following resolution as a Special Resolution: provisions in any enactment, the Articles of 2006 or, on 1 February 2007, Association of the Company or other instrument 7.
That, in substitution for any existing whichever is the earlier, save that the to the contrary.
authority under section 166 of the Company may, prior to such expiry, 3.
Shareholders participating in the Baillie Gifford Companies Act 1985 the Act, but enter into a contract to purchase Investment Trust Share Plan, Childrens Savings without prejudice to the exercise of any Shares under such authority which Plan or the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA such authority prior to the date hereof, will or might be completed or PEP who wish to vote and or attend the the Company be authorised, in executed wholly or partly after the meeting must complete and return the enclosed accordance with section 166 of the Act, expiration of such authority and may reply-paid Form of Direction.
to make market purchases within the make a purchase of Shares pursuant 4.
No Director has a contract of service with the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act of to any such contract.
