4 ITEMS INCLUDED IN PROFIT BEFORE TAX BUT EXCLUDED FROM ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT i Goodwill impairment Goodwill impairment represents 5 million incurred in respect of the Groups African general insurance business.
After minority interests of 1 million, goodwill impairment attributable to equity holders is 4 million.
During 2004, a goodwill impairment of 33 million was recognised in respect of Group adjustments associated with the Groups banking businesses.
After minority interests of 16 million, goodwill impairment attributable to equity holders was 17 million.
ii Profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments m Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 United States asset management affiliates 6 5 South Africa banking subsidiaries and associates 4 10 South Africa banking strategic investments 68 United Kingdom asset management subsidiaries 12 Profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments before tax 58 27 Tax 1 Profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments after tax 59 27 Profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments after tax is attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 32 21 Minority interests ordinary shares 27 6 59 27 During 2005, the Group disposed of its interests in L&B Realty, Integra Global Advisors and UAM Japan for a total of 10 million cash consideration, resulting in a loss on disposal of 6 million.
The tax credit arising on disposal was 4 million.
During the year the Groups banking subsidiary disposed of various non-core subsidiaries resulting in a loss of 1 million.
Disposal of investment in associated undertaking Internet Solutions resulted in a profit of 7 million and a write down of investment in State Bank of Mauritius Ltd resulted in a loss of 10 million.
In August 2005, the Groups banking subsidiary disposed of its investment in Net1 U. E. P. S. Technologies, Inc for 75 million cash consideration, resulting in a profit on disposal of 68 million.
This strategic investment was previously an associate of the Group and held as an available-forsale asset.
The profit has been excluded from adjusted operating profit as in the directors view the size of the profit may distort the concept that the adjusted operating profit is to represent the underlying performance of the Group.
Net tax payable in respect of the Groups banking subsidiary disposals was 3 million.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 111 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2005 continued 4 ITEMS INCLUDED IN PROFIT BEFORE TAX BUT EXCLUDED FROM ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT continued iii Short-term fluctuations in investment return Profit before tax is calculated on the basis of actual investment return earned by the long-term business.
Adjusted operating profit is stated after allocating an investment return earned by the insurance businesses based on a long-term investment return.
The difference between the actual and the long-term investment returns is the short-term fluctuations in investment return.
For African long-term business, the return is applied to an average value of investible shareholders assets, adjusted for net fund flows.
For general insurance business, the return is an average value of investible assets supporting shareholders funds and insurance liabilities, adjusted for net fund flows.
For the US long-term business, the return earned by assets, mainly bonds, has been smoothed with reference to the actual yield earned by the portfolio.
The long-term rates of investment return for equities and other investible assets are as follows: Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 Africa 11.1% 12.5% Equities 13.0% 14.0% Cash and other investible assets Rand denominated 9.0% 11.0% Cash and other investible assets other currencies 6.0% 8.0% United States 5.85% 6.00% The long-term rates of return are based on achieved real rates of return adjusted for current inflation expectations and consensus economic investment forecasts, and are reviewed annually for appropriateness.
The directors are of the opinion that these rates of return are appropriate and have been selected with a view to ensuring that returns credited to adjusted operating earnings are not inconsistent with the actual returns expected to be earned over the long-term.
m Year to Year to 31 December 31 December Analysis of short-term fluctuations in investment return 2005 2004 Long-term business Actual investment return attributable to shareholders 415 303 Long-term investment return credited to adjusted operating profit 132 145 283 158 General insurance business Actual investment return attributable to shareholders 133 84 Long-term investment return credited to adjusted operating profit 53 45 80 39 Short-term fluctuations in investment return before tax 363 197 Tax 55 46 Short-term fluctuations in investment return after tax 308 151 Short-term fluctuations in investment return after tax is attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 294 149 Minority interests ordinary shares 14 2 308 151 iv Income from hedging activities that do not qualify for hedge accounting In order to manage investment risk, interest rate risk and currency exposures, the Parent Company enters into various derivative contracts.
These instruments are only entered into for this purpose as speculative activity is not permitted and all transactions must be fully covered by cash or corresponding assets and liabilities.
In accordance with IAS 39, the documentation and effectiveness testing requirements of hedge accounting are extensive.
Provided these tests are satisfied, any movements in the fair value of the derivative instruments will be recognised through either cash flow hedge reserves or translation reserves within the consolidated shareholders equity.
Whilst the requirements for hedge accounting have been achieved during 2005, certain economically hedged relationships failed the IAS 39 requirements in 2004.
As a result, the movement in the fair value of the derivative instruments, which resulted in a gain of 31 million recognised in the consolidated income statement.
This gain has been excluded from the adjusted operating profit as it does not represent income arising from the underlying performance of the Group.
Old Mutual plc 112 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 4 ITEMS INCLUDED IN PROFIT BEFORE TAX BUT EXCLUDED FROM ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT continued v Investment return adjustment for Group equity and debt instruments held in life funds Investment returns on Group equity and debt instruments held in the policyholder funds to support policyholder liabilities are eliminated within the consolidated income statement in arriving at profit for the financial year.
However, adjusted operating profit includes investment returns on these investments in Group equity and debt instruments.
These include investments in the Companys ordinary shares and subordinated liabilities and preferred securities issued by its African banking subsidiaries.
m Year to Year to 31 December 31 December Investment return adjustment for Group equity and debt instruments held in life funds 2005 2004 Dividend income 16 18 Realised gains on investment return 16 5 Unrealised gains on investments 77 76 109 99 vi Initial costs of Black Economic Empowerment schemes On 19 April 2005, the Group announced its intention to implement certain Black Economic Empowerment ownership proposals which will ultimately increase black shareholdings in its South African businesses.
Following approval by shareholders at an Extraordinary General Meeting and Court Meeting held on 6 July 2005, the schemes were implemented in August 2005.
The proposals in respect of the Company were subject to a scheme of arrangement under section 425 of the Companies Act 1985, which was confirmed by the UK High Court on 18 July 2005.
Implementation resulted in the issue of new ordinary shares in Old Mutual plc and its listed subsidiaries to various share trusts for the benefit of black employees within the Group and to a number of black controlled entities beneficially owned by black clients or distributors, black community groups and Black Business Partners in South Africa.
The costs incurred during the year in relation to the schemes consists of share-based payments charges in accordance with IFRS 2, administration costs associated with implementation and running of the schemes and performance fees accrued in respect of the black business partners.
Tax relief is recognised in respect of certain costs where contributions are made to schemes in respect of employee grants.
Total costs of 80 million have been recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Share-based payment charges are recognised over the vesting period of the schemes and apply to employee and non-employee arrangements where the Group is deemed to have received benefits in respect of the issue of the shares.
The amounts calculated in respect of certain schemes, principally the broad based employee schemes and black business partners arrangements, vest immediately such that the total charge is recognised up front.
These initial share-based payment charges and professional fees incurred in respect of establishment of these schemes have been excluded from adjusted operating profit.
m Year to 31 December 2005 Old Mutual South Africa 28 Nedbank Group Limited 30 Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Limited 12 Old Mutual plc 2 Initial costs of Black Economic Empowerment schemes before tax 72 Tax relief on initial costs 5 Initial costs of Black Economic Empowerment schemes after tax 67 Initial costs of Black Economic Empowerment schemes after tax is attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 54 Minority interests ordinary shares 13 67 The Group did not incur any costs in respect of these Black Economic Empowerment schemes in 2004.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 113
