Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2005 continued 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Basis of preparation Statement of compliance Old Mutual plc the Company is a company incorporated in the UK.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and equity account the Groups interest in associates and jointly controlled entities.
The Parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its group.
Both the Parent Company financial statements and the Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
On publishing the Parent Company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in s230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these approved financial statements.
The Group has chosen to early adopt the amendments to IAS 39 published by the IASB in June 2005, the Fair Value Option.
These amendments made changes to the definition of financial assets and liabilities that may be recognised at fair value through profit and loss.
Accordingly the current financial statements have been prepared in accordance with these amendments.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements and in preparing an opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2004 for the purposes of the transition to Adopted IFRSs.
Both the Group and the Company are preparing their financial statements in accordance with Adopted IFRS for the first time and consequently both have applied IFRS 1.
An explanation of how the transition to Adopted IFRSs has affected the reported financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Group is provided in note 51.
IFRS 1 grants certain exemptions from the full requirements of IFRSs in the transition period.
The following exemptions have been taken in these financial statements: Cumulative translation differences Cumulative translation differences for all foreign operations have been set to zero at 1 January 2004: Business combinations Business combinations that took place prior to 1 January 2004 have not been restated: Employee benefits All cumulative actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit plans have been recognised in equity at 1 January 2004: Equity compensation plans The provisions of IFRS 2, Share Based Payments has not been applied to equity settled awards granted on or before 7 November 2002, or awards granted after that date but which had vested prior to 1 January 2005: Property, Plant and Equipment individual items of property, plant and equipment have been measured at fair value at 1 January 2004 and this is deemed to be their cost at that date: and Compound financial instruments the election has been taken not to separate compound financial instruments into debt and equity portions provided that the debt component is no longer outstanding at 1 January 2004.
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments, financial instruments classified as fair value through the income statement or as available-for-sale and investment property.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of previous carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Judgements made by the directors, in the applications of these accounting policies that have significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 1 p. Old Mutual plc 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2005
