50 INSURANCE RISK The Group assumes insurance risk by issuing insurance contracts, under which the Group agrees to compensate the policyholder or other beneficiary if a specified uncertain future event the insured event affecting the policyholder occurs.
Insurance risk includes mortality or morbidity risk in the case of long-term business or risk of loss from fire, accident, or other source in the case of general insurance.
For accounting purposes insurance risk is defined as risk other than financial risk.
Contracts issued by the Group may include both insurance and financial risk: contracts with significant insurance risk are classified as insurance contracts, while contracts with no or insignificant insurance risk are classified as investment contracts.
The Groups approach to financial risk management has been described in note 49. a Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating insurance risk The Groups exposure to insurance risk varies depending on the nature of its operations and their location.
Consequently the Groups policy is to manage insurance risk separately through its principal operations, subject to appropriate central Corporate supervision and monitoring.
The Groups principal operations that incur significant insurance risk are: OMLAC SA long-term insurance in South Africa Old Mutual US Life long-term insurance in the United States Mutual & Federal general insurance in South Africa The Groups other insurance operations include long-term insurance in Namibia, United Kingdom Europe and Rest of World but do not give rise to significant insurance risks relative to the Group as a whole.
The Group effectively manages its insurance risks through the following mechanisms: The diversification of business over several classes of insurance and a number of geographical segments and large numbers of uncorrelated individual risks, by which the Group seeks to reduce variability in loss experience: The maintenance and use of sophisticated management information systems, which provide current data on the risks to which the business is exposed at any point in time: Actuarial models, which use the above information to calculate premiums and monitor claims patterns.
Past experience and statistical methods are used: and Guidelines for concluding insurance contracts and assuming insurance risks.
These include underwriting principles and product pricing procedures.
Reinsurance, which is used to limit the Groups exposure to large single claims and catastrophes.
When selecting a reinsurer, consideration is given to those companies that provide high security.
In order to assess this, rating information from both public and private sources is used.
The mix of assets, which is driven by the nature and term of the insurance liabilities.
The management of assets and liabilities is closely monitored to ensure that there are sufficient interest bearing assets to match the guaranteed portion of liabilities.
Hedging instruments are used at times to limit exposure to equity market and interest rate movements.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 187 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2005 continued 50 INSURANCE RISK continued b Terms and conditions of long-term insurance business South Africa and United States The terms and conditions attaching to insurance contracts determine the level of insurance risk accepted by the Group.
The following tables outline the general form of terms and conditions that apply to contracts sold in each category of business, and the nature of the risk incurred by the Group.
South Africa Policyholder participation in Category Essential terms Main risks Policyholder guarantees investment return?
Individual Life Mortality morbidity rates Mortality, morbidity Some investment Yes, varies see below Flexi business with cover may be repriced regular performance, cover and premium contracts annuity guarantees Conventional with cover Charges fixed at inception Mortality, morbidity Some investment Yes, varies see below and cannot be changed performance and annuity guarantees Greenlight Charges fixed at inception Mortality, morbidity, Rates fixed for a specified None and cannot be changed expense number of years for a specified term Group Schemes Charges fixed at inception Mortality including Rates fixed for a specified None funeral cover and cannot be changed for HIV AIDS, expense number of years a specified number of years Employee Benefits Rates are annually Mortality, morbidity No significant guarantees, None Group Assurance renewable except for PHI claims in payment for which benefit payment schedule is guaranteed Non-profit annuity Regular benefit payments Mortality, investment Benefit payment schedule None guaranteed in return for is guaranteed consideration With-profit annuity Regular benefit payments Investment Underlying pricing interest Yes see below participating in profits in rate is guaranteed.
Declared return for consideration bonuses cannot be reduced The extent of the Groups discretion as to the allocation of investment return to policyholders varies based on the type of contract.
Where the contracts are pure risk type, there is no sharing of investment returns.
For other contracts, investment return is attributed to the policyholder.
Declared bonuses may be either vesting and or non-vesting in which case they can be removed.
Smoothed bonus products constitute a significant proportion of the business.
Particular attention is paid to ensuring that the declaration of bonuses is done in a responsible manner, such that sufficient reserves are retained for bonus smoothing purposes.
The return not distributed after deducting charges is credited to a bonus stabilisation reserve, which may only be used to support subsequent bonus declarations.
Old Mutual plc 188 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 50 INSURANCE RISK continued b Terms and conditions of long-term insurance business South Africa and United States United States Policyholder participation in Category Essential terms Main risks Policyholder guarantees investment return?
Life term Renewable term products Mortality, expense Premium guarantees from None offering coverage for level 1 to 30 years periods ranging from one to 30 years Universal life Flexible and fixed premium Mortality, expense Secondary non-lapse Yes, through the interest sensitive life guarantees max of 15 crediting rate insurance with cash years or to age 95 : cost of value build up insurance mortality charge guarantees Equity indexed annuities Single and flexible premium Mortality, investment Minimum caps, maximum Yes, through the index accumulation annuities with spread guarantees upside potential of equity indexed returns on their account value Fixed deferred annuities Single and flexible premium Mortality, investment Minimum guaranteed Limited crediting rates are accumulation annuities accumulation rates and reset at specified intervals annuitisation rates Equity indexed universal life Flexible premium interest Mortality, investment, Secondary non-lapse Yes, through the index sensitive whole life products expense guarantees: cost of with upside potential of insurance mortality charge equity indexed returns on guarantees: minimum caps: their account value maximum spread guarantees Immediate Payout Regular benefit payments Mortality, investment Benefit payment schedule None Annuities guaranteed in return for is guaranteed consideration In addition to the specific risks identified above, the Group is subject to the risk that policyholders discontinue the insurance policy, through lapse or surrender.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 189 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2005 continued 50 INSURANCE RISK continued c Management of insurance risks long-term business The table below summarises the variety of risks to which the Groups long-term insurance business is exposed, and the methods by which the Group seeks to mitigate these risks.
Risk Definition Risk management Underwriting Misalignment of policyholders to the appropriate pricing Experience is closely monitored.
For universal life basis or impact of anti-selection, resulting in a loss business, mortality rates can be reset.
Underwriting limits, health requirements, spread of risks and training of underwriters all mitigate the risk.
HIV AIDS Impact of HIV AIDS on mortality rates and critical illness Impact of HIV AIDS is mitigated wherever possible by cover writing products that allow for repricing on a regular basis or are priced to allow for the expected effects of HIV AIDS.
Tests for HIV AIDS and other tests for lives insured above certain values are conducted.
A negative test result is a prerequisite for acceptance at standard rates.
Medical developments Possible increase in annuity costs due to policyholders For non-profit annuities, improvements to mortality are living longer allowed for in pricing and valuation.
For with-profit annuity business, the mortality risk is carried by policyholders and any mortality profits or loss is reflected in the bonuses declared.
Changing financial market The move to a lower inflationary environment may cause Value of guarantees, determined on a stochastic basis, conditions more policyholder guarantees to be in the money included in current reserves South Africa.
Fewer and lower guarantees are typically provided on new business South Africa.
Certain guarantees are reinsured United States.
Policyholder behaviour Selection of more expensive options, or lapse and Experience is closely monitored, and policyholder re-entry when premium rates are falling, or termination behaviour is allowed for in pricing and valuation.
of policy which may cause the sale of assets at inopportune times.
Catastrophe Natural and non-natural disasters, including war Catastrophe stop loss excess of loss reinsurance treaty in terrorism, could result in increased mortality risk and place which covers all claims from one incident occurring payouts on policies within a specified period.
Many of the above risks are concentrated, either geographically in the case of catastrophe or by line of business for example, medical developments, HIV AIDS.
The Group, through diversification in the types of business it writes and its geographic spread, attempts to mitigate this concentration of risk.
See Segment Analysis, in the preceding section, for illustration of this.
Old Mutual plc 190 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 50 INSURANCE RISK continued d Sensitivity analysis long-term business Changes in key assumptions used to value insurance contracts would result in increases or decreases to the insurance contract liabilities recorded, with impact on profit loss and or shareholders equity.
The effect of a change in assumption is mitigated by the following factors: Offset partial or full through deferred acquisition costs DAC amortisation in the case of US business: The effect of locked-in assumptions for payout annuities and term insurance under US GAAP accounting, where assumptions underlying the insurance contract liabilities are not changed until liabilities are not adequate after reflecting current best estimates: and Offset to the bonus stabilisation reserve in the case of mortality assumption changes for with-profit annuity business in South Africa.
The increase or decrease to insurance contract liabilities recorded at 31 December 2005 for long-term business has been estimated as follows: %m %m Assumption Change South Africa Change US Mortality and morbidity rates assurance 10 182 5 1 Mortality rates annuities 10 45 5 Discontinuance rates 10 8 10 11 Expenses maintenance 10 63 10 2 The insurance contract liability recorded is also significantly impacted by the valuation discount rate assumed.
Lowering this rate by 1% would result in a net increase to the insurance contract liabilities, and decrease to profit, of 21 million for the South Africa business.
However, the valuation rate is locked-in for the US business.
South Africa The changes in insurance contract liabilities shown are calculated using the specified increase or decrease to the rates, with no change in charges paid by policyholders.
The valuation interest rate sensitivity reflects a change in the valuation interest rates without any corresponding change in investment returns or in the expense inflation rate.
It should be noted that where the assets and liabilities of a product are closely matched e. g. non-profit annuity business, the net effect has been shown since the assets and liabilities move in parallel.
United States The assumption changes have relatively little impact on the US insurance contract liabilities or DAC, on life and immediate annuities, as assumptions are generally locked-in.
For universal life and deferred annuities, assumptions are periodically updated for actual experience.
Each of these assumption changes would trigger a DAC unlocking.
The assumption changes specified do not approach the levels necessary to trigger a change in liabilities or DAC.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 191 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2005 continued 50 INSURANCE RISK continued e Guarantees and options long-term business Many of the insurance contracts issued by the Group contain guarantees and options to policyholders, the ultimate liability for which will depend significantly on the number of policyholders exercising their options and on market and investment conditions applying at that time.
South Africa Certain life assurance contracts include the payment of guaranteed values to policyholders on maturity, death, disability or survival.
With the exception of the vested bonus guarantees in the smoothed bonus business, the published liabilities include the provision for both the intrinsic and time-value of the options and guarantees.
The time-value of options and guarantees has been valued using a real world stochastic asset model that is in keeping with the applicable professional guidance notes issued by the Actuarial Society of South Africa ASSA.
The options and guarantees that could have a material effect on the amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash flows are described below.
The required shock calculations have been performed as at 31 December 2005.
Product category Description of options and guarantees Required Shock to Bring Out-of-the-Money Policies In-the-Money Individual business Death, disability, point A closed block of unit-linked type and smoothed bonus An insignificant proportion of policies are currently in-theand or maturity guarantees business with an underlying minimum growth rate money current actual cumulative investment return guarantee 4.28% pa for life and endowment business lower than that guaranteed.
On average a 46% fall in and 4.78% pa for retirement annuity business, and asset value is required to bring current out-of-the-money smoothed bonus business with vested bonuses, policies to become in-the-money.
applicable when calculating death, disability and maturity claims.
A small block of smoothed bonus savings business in None of these policies are currently in-the-money.
On Group Schemes that has death guarantees of premiums average a 43% fall in asset value is required to bring net of fees plus 4.25% pa investment return.
current out-of-the-money policies to become in-the-money.
Guaranteed annuity options Retirement annuities sold prior to June 1997 contain A small proportion of policies are currently in-the-money guaranteed annuity options, whereby the policyholder the current policy value lower than the threshold annuity has an option to exchange the full retirement proceeds consideration at which the guaranteed annuity option for a minimum level of annuity income at maturity.
On average a 190 basis points reduction in yield is required to bring current out-of-themoney policies to become in-the-money.
Group business Vested bonuses in respect There is a significant pre-retirement savings smoothed This business is currently out-of-the-money as the aggregate of pre-retirement with-profits bonus portfolio.
Vested bonuses affect the calculation of market value exceeds the vested reserve.
On average a business benefit payments when a member exits from the scheme 35% fall in assets is required to cause the business to as the face value is paid out.
If, however a scheme become in-the-money.
terminates, the lower of face and market value is paid out and the vested bonuses are not guaranteed.
Old Mutual plc 192 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 50 INSURANCE RISK continued e Guarantees and options long-term business continued United States Product category Description of options and guarantees Required Shock to Bring Out-of-the-Money Policies In-the-Money Death, disability, surrender Crediting rates declared for the fixed deferred annuity 14% of policies are currently in-the-money and being point and or maturity block of business vest fully.
They are subject to a credited the minimum rate.
A 300bp drop in interest guarantees minimum crediting rate which is specified in the contract.
rates would bring 100% of policies in-the-money.
Minimum surrender values are determined by this rate.
Equity indexed annuities offer minimum crediting rates The minimum surrender values of 7% of policies are on the fixed portion of the product, minimum surrender currently in-the-money.
A year of flat equity markets with values based on this and credit equity participation no equity credits would bring an additional 46% in-the annually as a percentage of equity growth subject to a money.
Two years of no equity credits would result in maximum %.
This equity participation, which is subject 54% of the portfolio being in-the-money.
The equity to a minimum of 0% therefore vests annually.
exposure is hedged using a dynamic hedging strategy.
The variable annuities offered to off-shore customers The minimum death benefit of 12% of policies is through OMNIA Life Bermuda can offer minimum death currently in-the-money.
These risks are substantially benefit guarantees.
Death benefits are subject to a reinsured.
minimum of the sum invested or value at any anniversary date if greater.
A small proportion of variable annuity clients elect a minimum guaranteed account value on maturity.
The universal life policies specify a minimum crediting The minimum rate is currently being credited on 67% of rate to accumulate account balances.
Guaranteed annuity options All deferred annuities offer a guaranteed annuitisation The extent to which the policies are currently in-theoption on maturity.
The rates are set conservatively and money is negligible.
typically have very low utilisation as customers in the United States value the choice inherent in a lump-sum payment.
No-lapse guarantees Certain of the universal life contracts contain a feature No policies are currently in-the-money.
This risk is that guarantees that the contract will continue, even if reinsured.
values would otherwise be insufficient, provided the customer has paid at least a stated amount of premium.
Assets and liabilities for all products are matched by duration and convexity.
Investment mandates constrain tactical mismatches.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 193 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2005 continued 50 INSURANCE RISK continued f General insurance risks and sensitivities Mutual & Federal writes the following types of business within its Commercial, Risk Finance and Personal divisions: Commercial Risk Finance Personal Fire 333 Accident 333 Personal accident 333 Motor 3 33 Engineering 377 Crop 3 77 Marine 377 Credit 377 Underwriting guidelines are designed to ensure that underwritten risks are well diversified, and that terms and conditions, including premium rates, appropriately reflect the risk.
Reinsurance plays an extremely important role in the management of risk and exposure at Mutual & Federal.
The Group makes use of a combination of proportional and non-proportional reinsurance to limit the impact of both individual and event losses and to provide insurance capacity.
Involvement in any property catastrophe loss is limited to approximately 5 million for any one event and the level of catastrophe cover purchased is based on estimated maximum loss scenarios, in keeping with accepted market norms.
General insurance risk includes the following risks: Occurrence risk the possibility that the number of insured events will differ from those expected: Severity risk the possibility that the costs of the events will differ from those expected: and Development risk the possibility that changes may occur in the amount of an insurers obligation at the end of a contract period.
An increase of 10% in the average cost of claims would require the recognition of an additional loss of 39 million 36 million net of reinsurance.
Similarly, an increase of 10% in the ultimate number of claims would result in an additional loss of 39 million 36 million net of reinsurance.
The majority of the Groups general insurance contracts are classified as short-tailed, meaning that any claim is settled within a year after the loss date.
This contrasts with the long-tailed classes where the claims costs take longer to materialise and settle.
The Groups long-tailed business is generally limited to personal accident, third party motor liability and some engineering classes.
In total the long-tail business comprises less than 4% of an average years claim costs.
Old Mutual plc 194 Annual Report and Accounts 2005
