Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2005 continued 42 POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS On 26 January 2006, the Companys offer for  Skandia publ Skandia was declared unconditional.
Settlement of acceptances received up to that date were executed on 1 February 2006.
This resulted in the Company obtaining 72.3% of Skandia.
The offer was extended and further acceptances were received up to 9 February 2006, which were executed on 15 February 2006 and which resulted in an aggregate interest of 89.5% of Skandia.
The offer remains open for final acceptance until close of business on 14 March 2006.
Under the basic terms of the offer, consideration was paid to shareholders in Skandia by way of a combination of cash and shares in Old Mutual plc.
Cash consideration of 1,115 million has been paid by the Company in respect of the acceptances to date and the Company has issued 1,266 million Old Mutual plc shares.
Skandia will be consolidated within the Groups financial statements from 1 February 2006.
The fair value balance sheet and goodwill disclosures have not been completed at this time.
On 20 January 2006, the Company raised 300 million through placement of 10 year notes in accordance with the Companys global note programme.
Interest is payable annually and has been fixed at 5.0%.
This will be recognised as debt within the Groups 2006 financial statements.
43 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS During the year ended 31 December 2005, the Group had the following share-based payment arrangements: Type of arrangement Description of award Contractual life Vesting conditions Settlement treatment UK Sharesave Scheme Options over Old Mutual plc Exercise period ends within Service over either a three Equity settled shares listed on the London six months of vesting or five year period Stock Exchange LSE UK Share Option and Options over Old Mutual plc Six years Three years service and Equity settled Deferred Delivery Plan shares listed on the LSE achievement of a target growth in earnings per share UK Restricted Share Plan Old Mutual plc restricted Three years Three years service Equity settled shares listed on the LSE.
Employees are entitled to dividend payments throughout the vesting period South Africa Share Option Options over Old Mutual plc Six years Three years service and Cash settled and Deferred Delivery Plan shares listed on the achievement of a target Johannesburg Stock growth in earnings per Exchange JSE share South Africa Restricted Old Mutual plc restricted Three years Three years service Cash settled Share Plan shares listed on the JSE.
Employees are entitled to dividend payments throughout the vesting period OMSA Broad-Based Old Mutual plc restricted Five years Earlier of five years, or the Equity settled Employee Share Plan shares listed on the JSE.
participant being entitled to Employees are entitled to any other award under any dividend payments other share incentive throughout the vesting period scheme of the Company or death of the participant OMSA Senior Black Old Mutual plc restricted Four to six years Service over four, Equity settled Management Share Plan shares listed on the JSE.
five and six years Employees are entitled to 1 3 becomes unrestricted dividend payments after each of these time throughout the vesting period periods OMSA Management Old Mutual plc restricted Five years for shares and Three years service and Equity settled Incentive Share Plan shares listed on the JSE six years for options achievement of a target and or options over Old Mutual growth in earnings per plc shares listed on the JSE.
Three years Employees are entitled to service for restricted shares dividend payments throughout the vesting period Old Mutual plc 156 Annual Report and Accounts 2005
