2 FOREIGN CURRENCIES Principal exchange rates used to translate the operating results, assets and liabilities of key foreign business segments to Sterling are presented below: Rand USD Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 2005 2004 Income statement average rate 11.5812 11.7986 1.8195 1.8327 Balance sheet closing rate 10.8923 10.8482 1.7187 1.9158 Foreign currency revenue transactions are translated at average exchange rates for the year.
Monetary foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated at year end exchange rates.
Non-monetary foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated at historical exchange rates.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated from their respective functional currencies into the Groups presentation currency using the year-end exchange rates, and their income and expenses using the average exchange rates.
Unrealised gains or losses resulting from translation of functional currencies to the presentation currency are included as a separate component of shareholders equity, net of applicable deferred income taxes.
3 SEGMENT INFORMATION i Basis of segmentation Geographical segments For management purposes the Group is organised on a geographical basis into the following segments: Africa, North America and United Kingdom & Rest of the World.
This is the basis on which the Group reports its primary segment information.
Business segments Although the Group is managed primarily on a geographical basis, it operates in four principle areas of business: long-term business, general insurance, banking and asset management.
These businesses operate independently within each geographical sector.
Financial information about the Groups geographic and business segments is presented in note 3 ii below.
Where financial information is required for both primary and secondary segments, this information is shown in the format of a matrix.
Notes 3 iii to 3 ix provide additional supplemental information for each business segment and have been presented in accordance with the adjusted operating profit format used in preparation of the summary consolidated income statement, including a reconciliation to the consolidated income statement format.
Inter-segment revenue and expenses are included in the presentation of the additional supplemental information which are eliminated within the consolidated income statement.
In presenting information on the basis of geographical segments, segment revenue is based on the geographical location of customers.
There are no significant differences between the geographical location of assets and operations and the associated external revenues.
Business transacted with South African residents in terms of their personal offshore allowances is conducted by the Groups offshore companies and is therefore disclosed under the Rest of World segment.
Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arms length basis.
Segment results include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 99
