Notes to the accounts For the year to 30 September 2005 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES The financial statements have been prepared in g Assets subject to non-recourse finance.
Certain accordance with applicable accounting standards.
mortgage loans originated by subsidiary companies The particular policies adopted are described below.
had previously been sold to special purpose vehicle companies on a non-recourse basis.
The accounts are prepared amount of these loans is disclosed on the face of the under the historical cost convention, as adjusted for balance sheet, with the non-recourse finance the revaluation of fixed asset investments.
deducted from them in accordance with Financial b Basis of consolidation.
The consolidated accounts Reporting Standard 5 Reporting the Substance of deal with the accounts of the Company and its Transactions.
subsidiaries made up to 30 September 2005.
The Companys results of businesses acquired are dealt with in the investments in subsidiary companies are valued by consolidated accounts from the date of acquisition.
the directors at the Companys share of the book As required by Financial Reporting Standard 5 value of their underlying net tangible assets.
Reporting the Substance of Transactions, quasii Stocks.
Obligations to purchase vehicles from lessors subsidiary undertakings are dealt with in the at pre-arranged prices at the end of the lease term consolidated accounts on the same basis as true are included in stock at the prices to be paid, in subsidiaries, described above.
accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 5 c Negative goodwill.
Negative goodwill arising from Reporting the Substance of Transactions, less any the purchase of subsidiary undertakings, representing provisions to reduce the prices to net realisable value.
the excess of the fair values of acquired assets over Other stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net the fair value of the purchase consideration, is held realisable value.
on the balance sheet and credited to the profit and loss account over the period expected to be benefited j Current asset investments.
Balances shown as by the acquisition, within other operating expenses.
current asset investments in the balance sheet comprise short-term deposits with banks with d Tangible fixed assets.
Tangible fixed assets are stated maturities of not more than 90 days and more than at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided on cost in k Cash at bank.
Balances classified as cash in the equal annual instalments over the lives of the assets.
balance sheet comprise demand deposits and short The rates of depreciation are as follows: term deposits with banks with maturities of not more Short leasehold premises over the life of the lease than 7 days.
Computer equipment 25% per annum l Goodwill.
Goodwill arising from the purchase of Furniture, fixtures and subsidiary undertakings, representing the excess of office equipment 15% per annum the fair value of the purchase consideration over the Motor vehicles 25% per annum fair value of the net assets acquired, has previously f Loans to customers.
Loans are stated at cost less been written off on acquisition against Group provision for diminution in value.
reserves as a matter of accounting policy.
Such The amount provided is an estimate of the amount amounts would be charged or credited to the profit needed to reduce the carrying value of the asset to its and loss account on any future disposal of the expected recoverable amount and is based on the business to which they relate.
application of formulae which take into account the nature of each portfolio, borrower payment profile and expected losses.
38 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC
