Notes to the accounts For the year to 30 September 2005 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES The financial statements have been prepared in g Assets subject to non-recourse finance.
Certain accordance with applicable accounting standards.
mortgage loans originated by subsidiary companies The particular policies adopted are described below.
had previously been sold to special purpose vehicle companies on a non-recourse basis.
The accounts are prepared amount of these loans is disclosed on the face of the under the historical cost convention, as adjusted for balance sheet, with the non-recourse finance the revaluation of fixed asset investments.
deducted from them in accordance with Financial b Basis of consolidation.
The consolidated accounts Reporting Standard 5 Reporting the Substance of deal with the accounts of the Company and its Transactions.
subsidiaries made up to 30 September 2005.
The Companys results of businesses acquired are dealt with in the investments in subsidiary companies are valued by consolidated accounts from the date of acquisition.
the directors at the Companys share of the book As required by Financial Reporting Standard 5 value of their underlying net tangible assets.
Reporting the Substance of Transactions, quasii Stocks.
Obligations to purchase vehicles from lessors subsidiary undertakings are dealt with in the at pre-arranged prices at the end of the lease term consolidated accounts on the same basis as true are included in stock at the prices to be paid, in subsidiaries, described above.
accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 5 c Negative goodwill.
Negative goodwill arising from Reporting the Substance of Transactions, less any the purchase of subsidiary undertakings, representing provisions to reduce the prices to net realisable value.
the excess of the fair values of acquired assets over Other stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net the fair value of the purchase consideration, is held realisable value.
on the balance sheet and credited to the profit and loss account over the period expected to be benefited j Current asset investments.
Balances shown as by the acquisition, within other operating expenses.
current asset investments in the balance sheet comprise short-term deposits with banks with d Tangible fixed assets.
Tangible fixed assets are stated maturities of not more than 90 days and more than at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided on cost in k Cash at bank.
Balances classified as cash in the equal annual instalments over the lives of the assets.
balance sheet comprise demand deposits and short The rates of depreciation are as follows: term deposits with banks with maturities of not more Short leasehold premises over the life of the lease than 7 days.
Computer equipment 25% per annum l Goodwill.
Goodwill arising from the purchase of Furniture, fixtures and subsidiary undertakings, representing the excess of office equipment 15% per annum the fair value of the purchase consideration over the Motor vehicles 25% per annum fair value of the net assets acquired, has previously f Loans to customers.
Loans are stated at cost less been written off on acquisition against Group provision for diminution in value.
reserves as a matter of accounting policy.
Such The amount provided is an estimate of the amount amounts would be charged or credited to the profit needed to reduce the carrying value of the asset to its and loss account on any future disposal of the expected recoverable amount and is based on the business to which they relate.
application of formulae which take into account the nature of each portfolio, borrower payment profile and expected losses.
38 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC m Deferred taxation.
Deferred taxation is provided in full q Pension costs.
The expected cost of providing on timing differences that result in an obligation at pensions within the funded defined benefit scheme, the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to as calculated periodically by professionally qualified pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to actuaries using the projected unit method, is charged apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates to the profit and loss account so as to spread the and law.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion cost over the service lives of employees in the of items of income and expenditure in taxation scheme.
The assets of the scheme are held computations in periods different from those in which separately from those of the Group in an they are included in financial statements.
Deferred tax independently administered fund.
assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded The charge to the profit and loss account for providing as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
pensions under defined contribution pension schemes Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
is equal to the contributions payable to such schemes n Borrowings.
Borrowings are stated at their for the year.
outstanding value less unamortised issue costs and The Group has adopted the transitional disclosure discounts on issue.
Discounts on issue of borrowings requirements of Financial Reporting Standard 17 and initial costs incurred in arranging funding Retirement Benefits.
facilities are amortised over the period of the facility.
Shares in The Paragon Group of o Financial instruments.
Derivative instruments utilised Companies PLC held in treasury or by the trustee of by the Group comprise currency swap, interest rate the Groups employee share ownership plans are swap, interest rate option and forward interest rate shown on the balance sheet as a deduction in agreements.
All such instruments are used for arriving at Equity Shareholders Funds.
Own shares hedging purposes to alter the risk profile of the are stated at cost.
existing underlying exposure of the Group in line with s Long-term incentive plan.
The cost of shares to be the Groups risk management policies.
Amounts issued under the terms of the Paragon Performance payable or receivable in respect of interest rate swaps Share Plan is charged to the profit and loss account are recognised as adjustments to interest expense over the period between the date of grant and the over the period of the contracts.
The Group does not vesting date.
enter into speculative derivative contracts.
Rental income and costs under operating p Other operating income.
The turnover and gross profit leases are credited charged to the profit and loss of Paragon Vehicle Contracts Limited are not derived account over the period of the leases.
from the Groups principal activities and the gross Income from hire purchase contracts is accounted for profit is therefore included in other operating income.
Hire purchase receivables are The turnover is shown in note 5. included within Loans to Customers at the total amount receivable less interest not yet accrued and provision for doubtful debts.
Brokers commissions payable on mortgage loans are amortised over an appropriate period.
Unamortised commission balances are included within Loans to Customers.
Brokers commissions payable on other loans are amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of the loans to which they relate.
The balances being amortised are included within Loans to Customers.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 39
