Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc 41 Notice of Annual General Meeting NOTICE IS GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc will be held at INVESCO Park, Henley-on-Thames, Oxfordshire RG9 1HH at 2.30 pm on Friday, 22 July 2005 for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2005.
To re-elect Sir Patrick Sheehy a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Sir Martyn Arbib a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr James DAlbiac a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Antony Hardy a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Ed Burke a Director of the Company.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2005.
To re-appoint the Auditors and authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Special Business To consider the following resolutions which will be proposed as Special Resolutions: 9.
That: the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to and in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to exercise for the period ending on the date of the next Annual General Meeting, all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 944,786.
That: the Directors be generally and unconditionally empowered pursuant to and in accordance with Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to exercise for the period ending on the date of the next Annual General Meeting, all powers of the Company to allot equity securities wholly for cash, i in connection with a rights issue: and ii otherwise than in accordance with a rights issue, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 944,786 as if section 89 1 of the said Act, relating to pre-emption rights, did not apply to any such allotments.
PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT for the purposes of Resolutions 10 and 11: i words and expressions defined in or for the purposes of Part IV of the said Act shall bear the same meaning: ii by such authority and powers the Directors may during such period make offers or agreements which would or might receive the making of allotments after the expiry of such period: iii rights issue means an offer of equity securities open for acceptance for a period fixed by the Directors to holders on the Register on a fixed record date of ordinary shares in proportion to their respective holdings but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory: and iv the nominal amount of any securities shall be taken to be, in the case of rights to subscribe for or convert any securities into shares of the Company, the nominal amount of such shares which may be allotted pursuant to such rights.
42 Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 11.
That: the Company be generally and subject as hereinafter appears unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the Act of its issued Shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company Shares PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT: i the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 28,324,689: ii the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be 10p: iii the maximum price which may be paid for a Share be an amount equal to 105 per cent.
of the average of the middle market quotations for a Share taken from and calculated by reference to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Share is purchased: iv any purchase of Shares will be made in the market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per Share as determined by the Directors : v the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2005: vi the Company may make a contract to purchase Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract: and 12.
Any shares purchased in accordance with resolution 11, may, subject to the provisions of the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 as amended and any applicable regulations of the United Kingdom Listing Authority be held or otherwise dealt with in accordance with Section 162D of the Companies Act 1985 as treasury shares.
The holding of treasury shares will be restricted to 10% of the Companys issued share capital and any reissue of them will only take place on terms that are in the best interests of shareholders.
"That the Articles of Association of the Company be amended by: i the deletion of the word and at the end of sub-paragraph e of Article 101.3 and the insertion of the word ""and"" after sub-paragraph f of Article 101.3 and the insertion of a new sub-paragraph g to Article 101.3 in the following terms: g the giving of an indemnity by the Company pursuant to Article 154 and the provision of funds to any Director or the doing of anything to enable a Director to avoid incurring expenditure in each case as permitted by section 337A of the Act."
ii the deletion of Article 154 and the substitution therefor of the following as a new article 154: 154 INDEMNITY OF OFFICERS 154.1 Subject to the provisions of the Statutes but without prejudice to any indemnity to which the person concerned may otherwise be entitled, every person who is or was at any time a Director or other officer of the Company excluding the Auditors may be indemnified out of the assets of the Company against all costs, charges, expenses, losses or liabilities together Liabilities which he may sustain or incur in or about the actual or purported execution and or discharge of the duties of his office and or the exercise or purported exercise of his powers or discretions and or otherwise in relation thereto or in connection therewith, including without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing any Liability suffered or incurred by him in disputing, defending, investigating or providing evidence in connection with any actual or threatened or alleged claims, demands, investigations, or proceedings, whether civil or criminal, or in connection with any application under section 144 3 or 4 or section 727 of the Act.
Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc 43 [This indemnity shall not apply to the extent that: a the Liability is recoverable from any other person: b the consent of the Company's insurers is required, unless and until such consent is granted: c a Liability arises from an act or omission of the Director or other officer which is shown to have been in bad faith including one involving fraud or fraudulent concealment by such Director or other officer : d the Director or other officer has received a financial benefit to which he is not entitled: or e it relates to tax or national insurance contributions payable on remuneration or other benefits received by such Director or other officer. ]
The Company may also, subject to the provisions of the Statutes, provide funds to any Director or other officer excluding the Auditors or do anything to enable a Director or other officer to avoid incurring expenditure of the nature described in section 337A of the Act.
154.2 Subject to the provisions of the Statutes but without prejudice to any indemnity to which the person concerned may otherwise be entitled, every person who is or was at any time an Auditor may be indemnified out of the assets of the Company against all Liabilities which he may sustain or incur in or about the actual or purported execution and or discharge of the duties of his office and or the exercise or purported exercise of his powers or discretions and or otherwise in relation thereto or in connection therewith, including without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing any Liability suffered or incurred by him in disputing, defending, investigating or providing evidence in connection with any actual or threatened or alleged claims, demands, investigations, or proceedings, whether civil or criminal, or in connection with any application under section 727 of the Act.
Dated this 14th June 2005 By order of the Board INVESCO Asset Management Limited Secretary Notes: 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the AGM is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote in his stead.
In order to be valid an appointment of proxy must be returned by one of the following methods: in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the Companys registrars, Capita Registrars, Proxy Department, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU: or in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out below and in each case to be received by the Company not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST 44 Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it relates to the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in this document.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s, such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
A form of appointment of proxy accompanies this Notice.
Appointment of a proxy does not prevent a member from attending and voting at this meeting.
To be effective, the form of appointment of proxy, duly completed and executed, together with any power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy thereof must be lodged at the office of the Companys registrars, Capita Registrars Proxies, PO Box 25, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4BR, by not later than 2.30 pm on 20 July 2005.
A person entered on the Register of Members at close of business on 20 July 2005 a member is entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Any changes to the Register of Members after such time and date shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and or vote at the Meeting.
If the Meeting is adjourned, entitlement to attend and vote at the adjourned meeting, and the number of votes which may be cast thereat, will be determined by reference to the Companys register of members 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting.
There are no service contracts between the Directors and the Company.
Copies of the Articles of Association of the Company together with the register of interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during usual business hours Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted and will be available at the place of the AGM from 15 minutes prior to and during the AGM.
