12 Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc Shareholder Information The shares of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Share Price Listings Trust plc are quoted on the UK Stockmarket.
Purchases The price of your shares can be found in the following and sales can be arranged in a number of different places: ways.
Here are some examples: Financial Times Investment Companies Stockbroker, Bank, Share Shop, On-line Dealing, and Daily Telegraph Investment Trusts on-line or telephone dealing at Capita Registrars Reuters ordinary shares PLI In addition to these options Perpetual Income and ordinary shares 52061A Growth Investment Trust plc is a member of the Bloomberg INVESCO PERPETUAL Savings and Investment Plan ordinary shares PLI.
LN and the INVESCO PERPETUAL Individual Savings warrants PLIW.
Internet addresses Trust net www.
com INVESCO PERPETUAL Savings and Investment Interactive Investor www.
co. uk The INVESCO PERPETUAL Savings and Investment Plan investmenttrusts allows an investor to make monthly contributions of Association of www.
co. uk 20 per fund and above or to make lump sum Investment Trust purchases of 500 per fund and above in the shares of Companies Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc or any of the trusts managed by Perpetual in a The current share price can also be obtained by calling straightforward and low cost way.
0906 843 4818 calls are charged at 60p per minute at all times.
INVESCO PERPETUAL Individual Savings Association of Investment Trust Companies Account The Company is a member of the above.
The INVESCO PERPETUAL Individual Savings Account allows investment each tax year of up to 7,000 in a maxi ISA or up to 3,000 in a mini ISA.
Investors are Financial Calendar allowed to make monthly contributions of 20 per fund In addition, the Company publishes information and above or to make lump sum purchases of 500 per according to the following calendar: fund and above in the shares of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc or any of the trusts Announcements managed by Perpetual.
Interim unaudited results November December Preliminary final results June For full details of the INVESCO PERPETUAL Investment Trust Savings and Investment Plan and ISA scheme Ordinary Share Dividends please contact Investor Services.
0800 085 8677 Final payable April Interim payable December The other three trusts which are available under these plans are: Annual General Meeting July INVESCO Perpetual European Investment Trust plc Year End 31 March Perpetual Japanese Investment Trust plc INVESCO Perpetual UK Smaller Companies Investment Location of Annual General Meeting Trust plc To be held at 2.30 pm on Friday, 22 July 2005 at INVESCO Park, Henley-on-Thames, Oxfordshire NAV Publication RG9 1HH The NAV is calculated by the Manager on a daily basis and is notified to the Stock Exchange on the next business day.
It is published daily in the newspapers detailed opposite under Share Price Listings.
