Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc 45 Glossary of Terms Net Asset Value NAV The value of the Companys assets, principally investments made in other companies and cash being held, minus any liabilities for which the Company is responsible, eg money owed to other people.
The NAV is also described as Shareholders funds.
The NAV is often expressed in pence per share after being divided by the number of shares which have been issued.
The NAV per share is unlikely to be the same as the share price which is the price at which the Companys shares can be bought or sold by an investor.
The share price is determined by the relationship between the demand and supply for the shares.
Discount A description of the situation when the share price is lower than the NAV per share.
The size of the discount is calculated by subtracting the share price from the NAV per share and is usually expressed as a percentage % of the NAV per share.
If the share price is higher than the NAV per share, this situation is called a premium and the percentage is commonly shown prefixed with a minus sign.
Gearing The term applied to the effect of borrowings and prior charge share capital on assets that will increase the return on investment when the value of the Companys investments is rising but reduce the return when values are declining.
A gearing level of 100 or 0% indicates there is no gearing.
Actual Gearing reflects the amount of loans already arranged and in use by the Company.
This is the gearing figure published by the Association of Investment Trust Companies.
It is calculated by dividing the aggregate of Shareholders funds and all drawndown loans by Shareholders funds.
Asset Gearing reflects the amount of loans actively invested in assets and not held in cash.
It is calculated by dividing fixed asset investments by Shareholders funds.
Total Expense Ratio The total expenses excluding interest incurred by the Company, including those charged to capital, as a percentage of average net assets Shareholders funds.
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2003 INVESCO The Manager of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc is INVESCO Asset Management Limited, a Member of the AMVESCAP Group.
AMVESCAP is one of the worlds largest independent global investment management firms, with funds under management in excess of 199 billion.
We aim to provide the highest returns available from markets, through active management, but in a controlled manner, conscious of the risks involved and within our clients objectives.
AMVESCAP is a company listed in the UK and the US whose UK subsidiaries include INVESCO Asset Management Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Funds under Management as at 31 March 2005.
Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc 47 Specialist Funds Managed by INVESCO Investing for Income, Income Growth and Capital Growth City Merchants High Yield Trust plc INVESCO Income Growth Trust plc Keystone Investment Trust plc Aims to obtain both high income and capital Objective is to provide shareholders with Aims to provide shareholders with long-term growth from high yielding fixed interest long-term growth in capital and real longgrowth of capital mainly from UK securities.
The Companys investments term growth in dividends from an aboveinvestments.
The Trust is geared by way of include, but are not restricted to, preference average yielding portfolio comprising Debenture Stocks.
shares and loan stocks convertible and mainly UK equities and equity-related Perpetual Income and Growth Investment redeemable, corporate bonds and government securities.
Seeks to achieve a total return in Trust plc stocks.
Investment in higher yielding equities is excess of the FTSE Actuaries All-Share Aims to generate capital growth with a higher also allowed up to 20% of total assets.
The Trust is geared by way of a than average income from investment in the Trust is geard by way of bank debt.
4.75% Subordinated Convertible Unsecured UK equity market.
It is intended that the Loan Stock and bank loan.
INVESCO City and Commercial Trust plc Company will provide real dividend growth Invests principally in the securities of UK over the medium term by investing mainly in investment trust companies and other closed above-average yield equities.
The Trust is geared by an RPI geared by a Debenture Stock and bank debt.
Investing in Smaller Companies INVESCO English and International Trust plc INVESCO Japan Discovery Trust plc INVESCO Perpetual UK Smaller Companies Invests mainly in UK quoted and unquoted see below.
Investment Trust plc smaller companies, and in US smaller Aims to achieve long-term capital growth INVESCO Perpetual AiM VCT plc companies.
It pursues a relatively risk averse through investment in quoted investments The Company was launched in August stock selection strategy holding a well drawn predominantly from the UK equity 2004.
The objective is to provide an average diversified portfolio.
The Trust has structural markets.
Investments will normally be in dividend return to shareholders above the gearing which the Directors believe will smaller companies.
The pursuit of income average dividend return of all AIM-traded enhance the return to shareholders, over the remains of secondary importance.
The Trust companies, principally through a diversified longer term.
portfolio of investments in Qualifying Companies.
Investing Outside the UK INVESCO Asia Trust plc INVESCO Japan Discovery Trust plc Perpetual Japanese Investment Trust plc Aims to provide long term capital growth by Aims to provide long term capital growth by Aims to achieve long-term capital growth by investing in a diversified portfolio of Asian investing in a diversified portfolio of smaller investing in a diversified portfolio of quoted and Australasian companies.
The Trust aims Japanese companies.
to achieve growth in its net asset value in INVESCO Perpetual European Investment excess of the Morgan Stanley Capital Trust plc International Far East ex Japan Free Index, Aims to provide a high level of capital measured in sterling.
growth through investment in European companies.
Investing in Property INVESCO UK Property Income Trust attractive level of income together with the Real Estate Opportunities Limited Limited prospect of income and capital growth from The portfolio is predominately invested in The Company is a newly established closedinvestment in commercial properties inthe the Irish and UK property markets.
ended investment company with limited United Kingdom.
The objective is to provide ordinary shareholders with an Investing in Split Capitalisation Funds INVESCO Recovery Trust 2005 plc returns of the Ordinary Shares by investing bank loan, and returns to Ordinary Aims to meet the capital entitlements of the primarily in equities but also debt securities Shareholders are further geared by the prior Zero Dividend Preference Shares Zero which are considered to offer recovery charge of the Zero Shares.
The Trust has an and to maximise the capital and income prospects.
The Trust is geared by way of a initial life projected to end in 2005.
Investing for High Income INVESCO Leveraged High Yield Fund Aims to provide a high return, high yield corporate bonds.
The Trust is Limited predominately in the form of income, from highly geared.
a diversified portfolio of mainly European Most of the INVESCO specialist funds listed above are eligible for inclusion in the INVESCO Investment Trust ISA and the INVESCO Investment Trust Savings Scheme.
The trusts marked with are available through the INVESCO PERPETUAL Investment Trust ISA, PEP and Savings Plan.
In addition, most of the above trusts are available for PEP and or ISA transfers via the Schemes listed above.
Keystone Investment Trust is available as an ISA investment via the INVESCO PERPETUAL Investment Trust ISA product or as a savings plan via the INVESCO Investment Trust Savings Scheme.
Please contact our Investor Services Team on 0800 085 8677 if you would like more information about the investment trusts or other specialist funds listed above.
Further details are also available on the following website: www.
co. uk investmenttrusts 48 Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc Notes Typeset and Printed by Linkway CCP L14200 Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc Report and Accounts 2005
