Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc 25 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are required by United Kingdom company law to prepare financial statements for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company at the end of the financial period and of the results for the period to that date.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable United Kingdom accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for the system of internal control and have a general responsibility for safeguarding the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Directors report and other information included in the Annual Report is prepared in accordance with company law in the United Kingdom.
They are also responsible for ensuring that the Annual Report includes information required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The financial statements are published on www.
co. uk investmenttrusts, which is a website maintained by the Companys investment manager.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this website and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in their jurisdictions.
