Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc 31 Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2005 1.
Accounting policies a Accounting convention The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention as modified to include the revaluation of investments, in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards and in accordance with The Statement of Recommended Practice for the Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies the SORP issued by the Association of Investment Trust Companies in 2003. b Valuation of investments Listed investments held at the balance sheet date are stated at middle market value.
Any gains or losses, whether realised or unrealised, arising on fixed asset investments are taken directly to capital reserves.
c Income All dividends are taken into account on the date investments are marked ex-dividend: other income from investments is taken into account on an accruals basis.
Deposit interest is taken into account on an accruals basis.
Underwriting commission is recognised when received.
Special dividends representing a return of capital are credited to capital reserves.
d Expenses and finance costs All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
The investment management fee and interest payable on the debenture stock and bank borrowings have been allocated 70% to the capital reserve realised and 30% to the revenue account, in line with the Boards expected long-term split of returns, in the form of capital gains and income respectively, from the investment portfolio of the Company.
The 30,000,000 6.125% debenture is stated initially at the amount of the net proceeds.
The finance costs associated with the debenture are allocated to periods over the term of the debenture at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
The carrying amount is increased by the finance cost in respect of the reporting period: this finance cost is charged 70% to capital and 30% to revenue.
The Company has entered into a debenture swap at a variable rate of six months LIBOR 0.95 per cent.
The net amount receivable or payable on the swap has been allocated 30% to revenue and 70% to capital.
The fair value of the swap is not included in the balance sheet but is disclosed in note 18.
The investment performance management fee is calculated as detailed in note 3.
Provided the performance criteria as detailed are exceeded this fee is charged wholly to capital.
e Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the results for the year.
Deferred taxation is provided on timing differences, arising from the different treatment of items for accounting and taxation purposes, which are expected to reverse in the future, calculated at the rates at which it is expected that tax will arise.
f Foreign currency Transactions in foreign currency, whether of a revenue or capital nature, are translated to sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the dates of such transactions.
Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies at the year end have been expressed in sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on that date.
Any gains or losses are taken to revenue or capital reserves realised as appropriate.
