Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and for the parent company financial statements, state whether the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, with applicable law and regulations.
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis law the directors are required to prepare the Group financial unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting parent company will continue in business.
Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
financial position of the parent company and enable them to The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
also responsible for preparing a directors report, directors The parent company financial statements are required by law to remuneration report and corporate governance statement that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
comply with that law and those regulations.
In preparing the Group and parent company financial statements, The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the directors are required to: the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation consistently: in other jurisdictions.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: 196 Prudential plc Annual Report 2005
