How to contact us Prudential plc Egg Laurence Pountney Hill 1 Waterhouse Square London EC4R 0HH 138-142 Holborn Tel: 44 0 20 7220 7588 London EC1N 2NA www.
com Chairman Mark Nancarrow Mark Tucker Group Chief Executive Group Chief Executive Jackson National Life Philip Broadley 1 Corporate Way Group Finance Director Lansing Rebecca Burrows Michigan 48951 Group Communications Director United States Tel: 1 517 381 5500 Andrew Crossley www.
com Group Chief Risk Officer Clark Manning Peter Maynard President & Chief Executive Officer Group Legal Services Director & Company Secretary Prudential Corporation Asia Priscilla Vacassin 13th Floor Group Human Resources Director One International Finance Centre Prudential UK & Europe 1 Harbour View Street 3 Sheldon Square Central London W2 6PR Hong Kong Tel: 44 0 20 7334 9000 Tel: 852 2918 6300 www.
com Nick Prettejohn Chief Executive Mark Norbom Chief Executive M&G Laurence Pountney Hill Analyst and investor enquiries London EC4R 0HH Tel: 44 0 20 7548 3511 Tel: 44 0 20 7626 4588 E-mail: investor.
co. uk Media enquiries Michael McLintock Tel: 44 0 20 7548 2007 Chief Executive E-mail: media.
co. uk 232 Prudential plc Annual Report 2005 PR2178 Report covers tp.
qxd 11 4 06 10:41 Page 3 Prudential at a glance Prudential is a leading life and pensions provider Egg plc is an innovative financial services company, M&G is Prudentials UK and European fund Jackson National Life JNL is one of the largest life Prudential has life insurance operations in 12 countries Our brands in the United Kingdom.
providing a range of banking and financial services manager with 149 billion of funds under insurance companies in the United States with over and in 2005 was awarded six new life licences for products through its internet site, www.
com management as at 31 December 2005. three million policies and contracts in force.
cities in China, making a total of 10 operational in 2005.
Prudential also has fund management operations in nine Asian countries following the addition of China and Vietnam in 2005.
Products Banking unsecured personal loans, credit cards, M&G independently manages assets on behalf of a JNL offers fixed, fixed index, and variable Prudential is Europes leading life insurer in Asia Operations Annuities mortgages and savings accounts wide range of retail and institutional investors.
M&G annuities, term and permanent life insurance in terms of market coverage and number of top five and products Corporate pensions Insurance distribution of general insurance also acts as fund manager on many of the life and and institutional products.
Through its affiliates market positions and one of the regions largest With-profits and unit-linked bonds products pensions products sold by Prudential in the UK and and subsidiaries, JNL also provides asset foreign owned fund managers.
Savings and investments Europe, as well as managing Prudentials balance management and retail brokerage services.
Egg has over five per cent share of the UK credit Prudential Corporation Asia provides a Protection sheet for profit.
JNL markets products in 50 states and the comprehensive range of savings, protection Equity release Retail business District of Columbia in the State of New York and investment products tailored to the needs Health insurance Customers Open Ended Investment Companies OEICs through Jackson National Life Insurance of each local market.
Product distribution channels and Unit Trusts UTs Company of New York through independent It pioneered unit-linked products in Singapore, Business to business consulting actuaries and Staff Investment Trusts ITs broker-dealers, independent agents, banks, Malaysia, Indonesia, the Philippines and Taiwan.
benefit advisers 2,200 Individual Savings Accounts ISAs and Personal regional broker-dealers and the registered Partnerships affinities and banks Equity Plans PEPs investment adviser channel.
Currently, Prudential Corporation Asia has a Locations Independent financial advisers network of over 170,000 agents serving more than Derby M&G and Prudential branded mutual funds are JNLs investment portfolio manager, PPM America Multi-tie panels seven million customers around the region.
Dudley distributed to retail investors in the UK, Europe Inc. manages around US$71 billion of assets.
Direct to customers telephone, internet London and South Africa.
M&G manages 14.6 billion Major strategic partnerships and mail Customers of retail assets, invested in equities, fixed income Bank of China International for Mandatory More than three million policies and contracts Customers and property.
Provident Fund business in Hong Kong in force.
More than seven million CITIC Group for life and fund management In the UK, M&G is the fourth largest retail fund Staff business in China Staff manager, with over one million unit holder accounts.
2,600 ICICI Bank for life and mutual funds business 6,700 Institutional business in India Location Locations Segregated fixed interest, pooled pension funds, In addition, Prudential Corporation Asia has a Headquartered in Lansing, Michigan Belfast structured and private finance number of distribution partnerships that include Dublin Segregated and pooled global macro strategy a number of leading banks.
London mandates Staff Mumbai Institutional customers include pension funds, 9,900 Reading insurance companies and other financial institutions Stirling Locations M&G manages 21.6 billion of institutional assets, China invested in equities, fixed income, property and Hong Kong private equity.
India Internal business Indonesia M&G manages assets on behalf of Prudentials Japan long-term business funds, including with-profits Korea and unit-linked funds, annuities and corporate Malaysia pension products.
The Philippines Singapore M&G manages 113 billion of assets for Taiwan Prudential customers, invested in equities, Thailand fixed income, property and private equity.
Vietnam Staff 1,400 Locations UK: London, Chelmsford Prudential public limited company Europe: Germany, Austria, Italy, Spain, France Incorporated and registered in England and Wales Other: Australia, South Africa Registered office: Also part of M&G Laurence Pountney Hill Prudential Property Investment Managers PruPIM London EC4R 0HH PPM Capital Registered number: 1397169 PPM South Africa Prudential plc is a holding company, subsidiaries of which are authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
APE sales grew 10 per cent in 2005 to 2005 overall group operating income was In 2005, operating profit grew 20 per cent Record APE sales of 515 million were up Sales on an APE basis grew 23 per cent.
527 million, up from 496 million in 2004. to 163 million and underlying profits grew 13 per cent on prior year.
New business profit Represents 48 per cent of total Group new Comparisons are quoted at constant 25 per cent to 138 million.
margin % of APE of 41 per cent up from IFRS operating profit increased 35 per cent The UK banking business made an operating business profit.
exchange rates 32 per cent in the prior year.
to 400 million in 2005. profit of 60 million, compared to 72 million Gross fund inflows increased by 35 per cent Front cover photograph by Philip Ip Hong Kong.
Third party funds under management of in 2004. to 7.9 billion.
Net fund inflows nearly doubled EEV operating profit on continuing operations Further information 10.1 billion, up 29 per cent over 2004 on to 3.9 billion.
of 755 million, up 104 per cent on prior year.
co. uk Following Prudentials offer for the minority comparable basis.
shareholding, Egg shares were delisted on Further information IFRS operating profit on continuing operations Telephone: 0800 000 000 IFRS operating profit of 157 million, up This report may contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to certain of Prudentials plans and its current goals and expectations relating to 20 February 2006. www.
co. uk of 362 million, up 27 per cent on prior year.
67 per cent on 2004. its future financial condition, performance, results, strategy and objectives.
Statements containing the words believes, intends, expects, plans, seeks www.
fide Further information Further information and anticipates, and words of similar meaning, are forward-looking.
By their nature, all forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because www.
com they relate to future events and circumstances which are beyond Prudentials control including among other things, UK domestic and global economic and www.
com business conditions, market related risks such as fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates, and the performance of financial markets generally: the Telephone: 020 7526 2500 www.
com Telephone: 00 1 517 381 5500 Telephone: 00 852 2918 6300 policies and actions of regulatory authorities, the impact of competition, inflation, and deflation: experience in particular with regard to mortality and www.
com morbidity trends, lapse rates and policy renewal rates: the timing, impact and other uncertainties of future acquisitions or combinations within relevant Customer helpline: 0800 390 390 industries: and the impact of changes in capital, solvency or accounting standards, and tax and other legislation and regulations in the jurisdictions in which Prudential and its affiliates operate.
This may for example result in changes to assumptions used for determining results of operations or re-estimations of Independent financial adviser IFA helpline: reserves for future policy benefits.
As a result, Prudentials actual future financial condition, performance and results may differ materially from the plans, 0800 328 3191 goals, and expectations set forth in Prudentials forward-looking statements.
Prudential undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements contained in this report or any other forward-looking statements it may make.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2005 PR2178 Report covers tp.
qxd 11 4 06 10:41 Page 2 Prudential public limited company Prudential plc is an international retail financial Incorporated and registered in England A growth business and Wales services group that aims to help people secure and Registered office: with strong momentum enhance their own and their dependants financial Laurence Pountney Hill London EC4R 0HH well-being by providing savings, protection and Registered number: 1397169 other products and services suited to their needs.
Prudential plc is a holding company, subsidiaries of which are authorised We have strong franchises in three of the largest and regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
and most attractive markets in the world, where rising www.
co. uk wealth and changing demographics are fuelling demand for life insurance and other long-term savings and protection products.
Our strategy is to build successful and increasingly profitable businesses in each of these markets, and thereby maximise returns to our shareholders over time.
Contents 1 Group financial highlights 186 Balance sheet of the parent company 2 Chairmans statement 187 Notes on the parent company financial statements 4 Group Chief Executives review 196 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual 8 Business review Report and the financial statements 16 Financial review 197 Independent auditors report to the members of Prudential plc 34 Corporate responsibility review 198 Supplementary International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 36 Board of directors basis results 38 Corporate governance report 200 Notes on the supplementary IFRS basis results 46 Remuneration report 201 Risk factors 58 Directors report 204 European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information 60 Summary of statutory and supplementary IFRS and EEV basis results 208 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information 61 Index to the Group financial statements 230 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the European 62 Consolidated income statement Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information 63 Statement of changes in equity 230 Independent auditors report to Prudential plc on the European 65 Consolidated balance sheet Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information 67 Consolidated cash flow statement 231 Shareholder information Annual Report 2005 68 Notes on the Group financial statements 232 How to contact us Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Prudential public limited company Incorporated and registered in England A growth business and Wales Registered office: with strong momentum Laurence Pountney Hill London EC4R 0HH Registered number: 1397169 Prudential plc is a holding company, subsidiaries of which are authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
co. uk Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 How to contact us Prudential plc Egg Prudential plc is an international retail financial Laurence Pountney Hill 1 Waterhouse Square London EC4R 0HH 138-142 Holborn services group that aims to help people secure and Tel: 44 0 20 7220 7588 London EC1N 2NA www.
co. uk Tel: 44 0 20 7526 2500 Fax: 44 0 20 7526 2665 enhance their own and their dependants financial Sir David Clementi www.
com Chairman well-being by providing savings, protection and Mark Nancarrow Mark Tucker Group Chief Executive Group Chief Executive other products and services suited to their needs.
Jackson National Life Philip Broadley 1 Corporate Way Group Finance Director Lansing We have strong franchises in three of the largest Rebecca Burrows Michigan 48951 Group Communications Director United States and most attractive markets in the world, where rising Tel: 1 517 381 5500 Andrew Crossley www.
com Group Chief Risk Officer wealth and changing demographics are fuelling demand Clark Manning Peter Maynard President & Chief Executive Officer Group Legal Services Director & Company Secretary for life insurance and other long-term savings and Prudential Corporation Asia Priscilla Vacassin 13th Floor Group Human Resources Director protection products.
One International Finance Centre Prudential UK & Europe 1 Harbour View Street 3 Sheldon Square Central Our strategy is to build successful and increasingly London W2 6PR Hong Kong Tel: 44 0 20 7334 9000 Tel: 852 2918 6300 profitable businesses in each of these markets, and www.
com Nick Prettejohn thereby maximise returns to our shareholders over time.
Chief Executive Mark Norbom Chief Executive M&G Laurence Pountney Hill Analyst and investor enquiries London EC4R 0HH Tel: 44 0 20 7548 3511 Tel: 44 0 20 7626 4588 E-mail: investor.
co. uk Contents 1 Group financial highlights Prudential public limited company 2 Chairmans statement Incorporated and registered in England and Wales 4 Group Chief Executives review 8 Prudential at a glance Registered office: 10 Strategic overview Laurence Pountney Hill 14 Business review London EC4R 0HH 16 Financial review Registered number: 1397169 24 Corporate responsibility review Prudential plc is a holding company, subsidiaries of which are 26 Board of directors authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
28 Summary corporate governance report 31 Summary remuneration report www.
co. uk 34 Summary directors report 35 Independent auditors statements 36 European Embedded Value EEV basis summary results Front cover photograph by Philip Ip Hong Kong.
37 European Embedded Value EEV basis movement in shareholders capital and reserves and balance sheet 38 European Embedded Value EEV basis operating This review may contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to certain of Prudentials plans and its current goals and expectations relating to profit from continuing operations based on longer-term its future financial condition, performance, results, strategy and objectives.
Statements containing the words believes, intends, expects, plans, seeks investment returns This summary financial statement is only a summary of the and anticipates, and words of similar meaning, are forward-looking.
By their nature, all forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because 39 Insurance and investment products new business information contained in the Groups 2005 full Annual Report they relate to future events and circumstances which are beyond Prudentials control including among other things, UK domestic and global economic and 41 IFRS basis summary results and does not contain sufficient information to allow as full an business conditions, market related risks such as fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates, and the performance of financial markets generally: the 42 IFRS basis statement of changes in equity understanding of the results of the Group and state of affairs of the policies and actions of regulatory authorities, the impact of competition, inflation, and deflation: experience in particular with regard to mortality and 44 IFRS basis consolidated balance sheet Company or of the Group as is provided by the Groups 2005 full morbidity trends, lapse rates and policy renewal rates: the timing, impact and other uncertainties of future acquisitions or combinations within relevant 46 Supplementary IFRS basis results operating profit from Annual Report.
Any shareholder or debenture holder has the right industries: and the impact of changes in capital, solvency or accounting standards, and tax and other legislation and regulations in the jurisdictions in which continuing operations to obtain, free of charge, a copy of the Groups 2005 full Annual Prudential and its affiliates operate.
This may for example result in changes to assumptions used for determining results of operations or re-estimations of 47 Basis of financial reporting Report and or future Annual Reports by contacting Lloyds TSB reserves for future policy benefits.
As a result, Prudentials actual future financial condition, performance and results may differ materially from the plans, 48 Shareholder information Registrars or the Company Secretary in writing.
Copies can also goals, and expectations set forth in Prudentials forward-looking statements.
Prudential undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements ibc How to contact us be obtained via the Companys website at www.
co. uk contained in this review or any other forward-looking statements it may make.
Group financial highlights Results summary 2005 2004 European Embedded Value EEV basis results m m UK insurance operations 426 486 M&G 163 136 Egg 44 61 UK operations 633 683 US operations 755 368 Asian operations 568 464 Other income and expenditure 244 241 Operating profit from continuing operations based on longer-term investment returns 1,712 1,274 Goodwill impairment charge 120 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 1,001 570 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses of defined benefit pension schemes 47 12 Effect of changes in economic assumptions and time value of cost of options and guarantees 302 48 Profit from continuing operations before tax 2,244 1,784 Operating earnings per share from continuing operations after related tax and minority interests 56.6p 43.2p Basic earnings per share 66.9p 53.7p Shareholders funds, excluding minority interests 10.3bn 8.6bn International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS basis results Statutory IFRS basis results 2005 2004 Profit after tax attributable to equity holders of the Company 748m 517m Basic earnings per share 31.6p 24.4p Shareholders funds, excluding minority interests 5.2bn 4.5bn Based on Based on statutory IFRS pro forma basis results IFRS results Supplementary IFRS basis information 2005 2004 Operating profit from continuing operations based on longer-term investment returns 957m 699m Profit after tax attributable to equity holders of the Company 748m 602m Operating earnings per share from continuing operations after related tax and minority interests 32.2p 22.7p Basic earnings per share 31.6p 28.4p Shareholders funds, excluding minority interests 5.2bn 4.7bn 2005 2004 Dividends per share declared and paid in reporting period 15.95p 15.48p Dividends per share relating to reporting period 16.32p 15.84p Funds under management 234bn 197bn EEV basis results The EEV basis results have been prepared in accordance with the EEV principles issued by the CFO Forum of European Insurance Companies in May 2004 and expanded by the Additional Guidance on EEV disclosures published in October 2005.
Previously the Group has reported embedded value based supplementary information on the achieved profits basis.
Operating earnings per share is calculated using operating profit from continuing operations based on longer-term investment returns after related tax and minority interests.
This profit excludes goodwill impairment charges, the post-tax effects of short-term fluctuations in investment returns, the shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses of defined benefit pension schemes, the effect of changes in economic assumptions, and changes in the time value of cost of options and guarantees.
The amounts for these items are included in the calculation of EEV basis basic earnings per share.
IFRS basis results The basis of preparation reflects the formal adoption of IFRS basis reporting for the 2005 results.
This basis of reporting was anticipated in the Companys interim reporting in July 2005 and, on all substantive matters, the basis of measurement and presentation of IFRS basis results included in this Annual Review is the same as applied at that time.
References to statutory IFRS basis results throughout this Annual Review reflect results contained in the statutory basis financial statements for 2005.
These statements incorporate changes from the basis of preparation for the 2004 financial statements that were included in determining the interim 2005 results.
These changes reflect: i Measurement changes arising from policies the Group has applied on the adoption of all IFRS standards, other than IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts, from 1 January 2004.
The 2005 results include the effect of adoption of those three standards from 1 January 2005. ii Changes to the format of the results and other presentational changes that the Group has applied in its 2005 financial statements in so far as they affect the summary results included in this Annual Review.
iii A discretionary change of policy for the basis of determining longer-term investment returns included in operating profit based on longer-term investment returns.
The pro forma IFRS basis results included in this Annual Review are included as supplementary information and are not results that form part of the Groups financial statements.
The pro forma IFRS results reflect the application of the statutory IFRS changes noted above and the estimated effect on the Groups results for 2004 if IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 had been applied from 1 January 2004 to the Groups insurance operations.
This profit excludes goodwill impairment charges, the post-tax effects of short-term fluctuations in investment returns, and the shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes.
The amounts for these items are included in the calculation of IFRS basis basic earnings per share.
Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 1 Chairmans statement 2005 was a good year for Prudentials businesses around the world.
Each of our 2005 was a operations made strong progress, and finished the year well positioned to take good year for advantage of the opportunities for profitable growth in 2006 and beyond.
At a Group level, total insurance sales for the year to 31 December Prudentials 2005 rose 15 per cent to 2,146 million: operating profit on a European Embedded Value EEV basis increased 33 per cent to 1,712 million: operating profit under the International Financial businesses Reporting Standards IFRS basis increased 36 per cent to 957 million.
The full year dividend per share has increased three per cent to 16.32 pence per share.
around the world During the year, we welcomed Mark Tucker back to Prudential, as Group Chief Executive.
Mark previously worked in most of the Groups businesses over nearly 20 years, and this broad knowledge, combined with his drive and energy, have brought greater clarity and confidence about the Groups longer-term plans and capital management programme, enabling us to map out the steps that we need to take to deliver long-term value to shareholders.
In the UK, where we are already a leading life and pensions company, we plan to extract significantly more value from the market as a whole by taking a more collaborative approach between our individual businesses.
The decision to return Egg to full ownership within the Group has been an important step towards this, and gives us a strong base from which to pursue our ambition to build a broader retail financial services presence.
In the United States, we see enormous potential to capitalise on the emerging needs of the baby boomer generation which is starting to move into retirement, using our market-leading position in variable annuities, and our strengths in IT, product innovation and relationship-based distribution.
Sir David Clementi 2 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 In Asia, the drivers of growth are as compelling as ever, and we HM Treasury.
Following the Annual General Meeting, Rob Rowley expect to continue to expand aggressively in the region over the will step down from the Board and I would like to thank him for his coming years, while still attaining our goal to go cash positive significant contribution since he joined in 1999. during 2006.
The Groups Restricted Share Plan ends this year.
At the Annual Turning to our asset management businesses, we see these as General Meeting we will put forward new long-term incentive significant and increasing contributors to the overall Group.
arrangements for executive directors, which will replace the Group Not only do they underpin the performance of our traditional Restricted Share Plan and the current business unit incentive insurance products, they also provide an attractive enhancement schemes.
Recruiting and retaining the highest calibre executives is to our range of products enabling us to accommodate the needs of course crucial to our long-term success.
The new arrangements of the vast bulk of retail investors.
Just as importantly, asset we have developed aim to be competitive within the broad management provides a powerful source of  international marketplace in which we operate, and we hope profits for the Group.
that shareholders will support them.
Across the Group, we continue to share knowledge and skills, and One further matter on which I must comment is the proposal we are increasingly looking at resources such as IT on a global basis.
received recently from Aviva that we should combine our two We see considerable scope for further collaboration of this kind businesses.
Your Board did not consider that the proposal made in future.
was in the best interests of Prudentials shareholders, and it was subsequently withdrawn by Aviva.
Your Board believes we are An integral part of our strategy is to ensure we build trusting, longwell placed: we have the business opportunities: the management term relationships with consumers and, as part of this, we continue depth: and the capital strength to continue to expand profitably to support the communities in which we operate through a range our operations around the world and to generate further growth in of financial education initiatives.
Details of our programme are the value of your Company.
As always, the experience and talents given in the Corporate Responsibility section of this Report.
of all our staff will be critical to our success, and I would like to During the year, we made a number of Board changes.
In addition thank them for their continued support and commitment.
to Mark Tuckers appointment as Group Chief Executive in May, we also appointed Nick Prettejohn as Chief Executive of Prudential UK, effective from January this year, following the departure of Mark Wood in October.
Keki Dadiseth was appointed as a non-executive director in April last year.
He brings to the Board considerable international experience, particularly of Asian markets.
Sir David Clementi Chairman We announced in April of this year that Lord Turnbull would join our Board following the Annual General Meeting in May.
He was the Secretary of the Cabinet and Head of the Home Civil Service from 2002 to 2005, prior to which he was Permanent Secretary at 3 per cent Full year dividend per share up by three per cent to 16.32 pence Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 3 Group Chief Executives review 2005 was a successful year for Prudential.
Compelling The Group has continued to expand its insurance business strongly and our asset management businesses have also had an positions in the excellent year.
Total Group operating profit before tax, on a European Embedded Value EEV basis, was 1,712 million, an increase of 33 per cent.
worlds leading Statutory IFRS operating profit before tax was up 36 per cent at 957 million.
The continuing momentum of the Group can be seen in the financial services growth of insurance premium income in 2005 to 13.8 billion 2004: 12.2 billion and funds under management of 234 billion at the end of 2005 2004: 197 billion.
markets New business sales in our insurance operations increased by 15 per cent to 2,146 million on an annual premium equivalent APE basis and each of our regional operations achieved doubledigit growth.
New business profits increased by 15 per cent across the Group to 867 million, and operating profit before tax on the insurance business on an EEV basis increased by 30 per cent to 1,743 million.
In our asset management businesses, external funds under management increased to 46 billion up 23 per cent.
A final dividend of 11.02 pence per share has been recommended by the Board bringing the full year dividend to 16.32 pence per share, an increase of three per cent from 2004.
The full year dividend is covered 1.7 times by post-tax IFRS profit after minority interests.
We intend to maintain our current dividend policy, with the level of dividend growth being determined after considering the opportunities to invest in those areas of our business offering attractive growth prospects, our financial flexibility and the development of our statutory profits over the medium to long term.
Shareholders funds, on an EEV basis, grew strongly to 10.3 billion at the end of 2005 2004: 8.6 billion and the Groups return on embedded value was 15.7 per cent 2004: 13.4 per cent at reported exchange rates.
Mark Tucker 4 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 In May 2005, I set up a team of senior executives with a brief to Finally, the review concluded we must continue to enhance the identify the ambitions and business strategies best suited to effectiveness of our capital management processes, to ensure that maximise sustainable growth in value for the Groups shareholders investment and capital allocation decisions are focused on those over the longer term.
areas of activity that will generate the best returns to shareholders.
The key conclusions of the review were that: Prudential is developing compelling positions in the worlds leading retail financial services markets.
I am confident of the outlook for Demographic trends and the increasing concentration of wealth the Group and we aim to deliver significant profitable growth.
in the hands of those approaching retirement or already retired presents a major opportunity to establish the Group as a leading UK insurance and retail banking operations provider of financial services for retirement by playing to our The Prudential-branded UK insurance business continued to strengths and areas of competitive advantage: develop its shareholder-backed business successfully and increased APE sales by 10 per cent in the year, to 900 million.
the Group is well positioned in markets that offer highly attractive The internal rate of return on new business written in the year opportunities for strong organic growth over the next 10 years: was 14 per cent, meeting the target set for 2007 two years early.
to exploit these opportunities fully we need to broaden our We continued in 2005 to increase the scale of our annuity business customer proposition and product range to align them more and at the same time reduce the average duration of the total book.
closely with anticipated retail financial sector profit pools: We have also continued to develop our product range in 2005. in addition, we must complement our strong and important In October we entered the lifetime mortgage market, a market intermediary links by expanding the proportion of revenue that is set to grow rapidly to an estimated 7 billion by 2008.
Our derived from direct customers: and ensure that we build deep innovative product has been designed with the customer, adviser life-cycle relationships with our customers: and regulator in mind and initial customer interest has been we should also develop the global reach and profile of our encouraging.
We have also made good progress in unit-linked and excellent asset management businesses.
off-shore bond sales which grew 31 per cent and 15 per cent respectively in the year.
Consistent with this strategy, and to support closer workings between our UK insurance business and Egg, we announced the The A-Day proposals offer the opportunity to attract new business terms of an Offer to acquire the 21.7 per cent of shares in Egg that as customers increase contributions and consolidate their pension the Group did not already own.
We have already launched a new Flexible Retirement Plan and we will undertake a review of our overall Each of our businesses has operational autonomy within its market individual pensions offering during 2006.
In addition, we have and this is critical to our success, since it is the key to our ability to established a unit to communicate directly with our existing tailor products and services to meet local market needs.
the review also concluded that there are material synergies that can be achieved through closer working across the Group, The UK insurance business has a balanced distribution model with consistent with our decentralised approach: and work is underway strong positions across all major segments IFA and multi-tie to identify and capture these, for example by establishing a single intermediaries, direct marketing and telesales, employee benefit global IT infrastructure and support unit with expected cost savings consultants and a well developed single-tie Partnership channel.
We continued to make good progress in diversifying distribution, 1,712 million Total EEV operating profit from continuing operations up 33 per cent At constant exchange rates Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 5 Group Chief Executives review continued reaching agreements with a range of providers including Barclays, policies on to its low cost flexible platform.
We fully expect to beat National Australia Bank, St. Jamess Place and with Royal London the 12 per cent return target for the transaction.
to provide pension annuities for vesting Scottish Life policies.
JNLs strength in variable annuities, its ability to bring products In addition, we continued to be successful in gaining access to to market rapidly and its positioning in advice-based distribution multi-ties in the year.
Prudential is in a strong position to benefit as channels means it is very well placed to take advantage of the the IFA market changes over the next 18-24 months and recently significant retirement savings flows expected from the baby achieved a 5 star IFA service rating for its investment products boomer generation over the coming years.
and 4 star rating overall, demonstrating strong progress in this JNLs priorities are to continue to focus on developing their important area.
position in the variable annuity market and to expand the business In retail banking, Eggs UK operations delivered an underlying through bolt-on acquisitions that meet targeted rates of return.
Egg was successful in Asia insurance operations testing market conditions improving its net interest margin against Prudential has an unrivalled exposure and weighting to the high a background of falling base rates and also lowering its cost income growth and high profit markets of Asia.
There has been a general deterioration in consumer credit Asia saw new business on an APE basis increase by 23 per cent to conditions, however, Eggs experience here has been substantially 731 million with double-digit rates of growth achieved in Korea, better than the market average.
China, India, Singapore and Indonesia.
Following our decision to acquire the minority shareholding in Egg, Profitability on new business and internal rates of return remain we have targeted annualised cost savings of 40 million across high and we will continue to emphasise unit-linked products, our UK operations by 2007.
During 2006, we will undertake a which offer higher returns and greater capital efficiency.
Unitfurther review of the cost base in these operations.
We also see linked products accounted for 63 per cent of sales across the opportunities for revenue synergies across our UK brands five region in 2005. million marketable customers.
We are maintaining momentum in the expansion of our distribution Our central focus in the UK is to use the strong franchises that capability.
Agency distribution is the dominant channel throughout we have to improve returns.
We are targeting growth but also the region and 75 per cent of our sales are from this source.
Our managing for value and we will not commit capital if we do not proprietary agent distribution force across the region reached see the individual product returns that we require emerging over 170,000 in 2005 with particularly rapid expansion in agent numbers a reasonable timeframe.
We will continue to increase agent numbers US insurance operations in these and other markets as the bedrock on which we build Jackson National Life JNL, the Groups US operation, is a our market share and market leadership positions.
We will also significant cash-generative business with the market positioning maintain a clear focus on improving the productivity of our agent to continue its strong track record of profitable growth in the force across the whole region, and this is particularly significant for retirement market.
growth in those countries in which we have been long established.
JNL continued to show strong growth in 2005, increasing new We see material scope to increase sales volumes through our business sales by 13 per cent to 515 million APE with growth in 40 existing bank distribution relationships and we intend to enter variable annuities of 31 per cent.
Both the margin and the internal into new partnership agreements.
We shall also continue to access rate of return on new business moved ahead strongly in the year.
direct and broker channels as they develop in individual markets.
During the year, JNL also successfully integrated the Life of As part of our global drive to attain new levels of cost efficiency, Georgia book of business acquired in May, transferring 1.5 million in Asia we are developing a regional hub basis for sharing back 15 per cent 867million New business APE sales of New business profit up 15 per cent 2,146 million, up 15 per cent to 867 million At constant exchange rates At constant exchange rates 6 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 office servicing and call centre facilities to leverage scale advantages perpetual capital securities, which qualifies as Group regulatory beyond the reach of individual business operations.
The primary use of the proceeds will be to refinance a the first regional hub, servicing the Singapore and Malaysian life non-qualifying 150 million bond that matures in 2007. insurance operations, was launched.
We have plans to open an The Group is confident that it has the capital and cash resources additional hub in China in the second half of 2006, where we to fund its planned organic growth.
already have a regional IT development centre.
In summary I am pleased to report that, whilst continuing our programme The Group delivered strong results in 2005 across all its businesses: of rapid expansion and profitable growth in Asia, we are also expecting the region to become cash positive in 2006, in line with we have compelling positions in the worlds leading retail our previous predictions.
financial services markets and the resources to capitalise on these: Asset management Operating profit before tax across our asset management businesses in the UK, we have three excellent and profitable franchises in in the UK, the US and Asia increased to 195 million up 16 per cent.
Prudential, Egg and M&G on which to build for the future: M&G in the UK had an excellent year with record gross and net in the US, JNL is a significant cash-generative business with the inflows and strong profit growth.
In Asia, underlying growth in market positioning for profitable growth in the retirement market.
retail funds under management was 29 per cent.
It has competitive advantage in the sectors in which it chooses to operate: and the ability to participate in market consolidation These businesses, together with PPMA, our asset management through bolt-on acquisitions: business in the US, continued to support their own sales growth and add significant value to the Groups insurance operations in Asia, we have an unrivalled exposure to opportunities for through their excellent investment performance.
life insurance sales and profit growth across the region, whilst continuing our programme of rapid expansion and profit growth.
The priorities in asset management are to continue to target We are also expecting the region to become cash positive in growth in external funds under management by capitalising on 2006: and a growth in demand for transparent investment products, access to more global products, the continuing rise of open architecture our asset management businesses have significant growth platforms and a rapidly expanding role for cross-border sales off a prospects and are providing solid cash flow generation.
We will create value through superior investment There is tremendous scope to deliver increasing value for performance and capitalise on international opportunities through shareholders from each individual business operation, and from greater collaboration.
the Group as a whole which derives both financial advantage and Balance sheet and capital management resilience from the diversity of its portfolio of businesses, and the Improving capital efficiency is at the heart of the Groups opportunities for collaboration between them.
commitment to deliver sustainable increases in shareholder value and we will maintain a rigorous approach to capital allocation and deployment.
As of 15 March, we estimate that the Groups capital surplus at the end of 2005 on a regulatory basis, as measured by the Financial Conglomerates Directive, was around 825 million, little changed Mark Tucker from the previous year.
In July, we took advantage of good market Group Chief Executive conditions in the US retail market to raise US$300 million of 234 billion Funds under management increased 19 per cent At reported exchange rates Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 7 Prudential at a glance Prudential is a leading life and pensions provider Egg plc is an innovative financial services company, Our brands in the United Kingdom.
providing a range of banking and financial services products through its internet site, www.
com Products Banking unsecured personal loans, credit cards, Operations Annuities mortgages and savings accounts and products Corporate pensions Insurance distribution of general insurance With-profits and unit-linked bonds products Savings and investments Egg has over five per cent share of the UK credit Protection card market.
Equity release Health insurance Customers Over three million.
Product distribution channels Business to business consulting actuaries and Staff benefit advisers 2,200 Partnerships affinities and banks Locations Independent financial advisers Derby Multi-tie panels Dudley Direct to customers telephone, internet London and mail Customers More than seven million Staff 6,700 Locations Belfast Dublin London Mumbai Reading Stirling APE sales grew 10 per cent in 2005 to 2005 overall group operating income was Financial highlights 900 million.
527 million, up from 496 million in 2004.
Comparisons are quoted at constant IFRS operating profit increased 35 per cent The UK banking business made an operating exchange rates to 400 million in 2005. profit of 60 million, compared to 72 million in 2004.
co. uk Following Prudentials offer for the minority shareholding, Egg shares were delisted on Telephone: 0800 000 000 20 February 2006.
com Telephone: 020 7526 2500 8 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 M&G is Prudentials UK and European fund Jackson National Life JNL is one of the largest life Prudential has life insurance operations in 12 countries manager with 149 billion of funds under insurance companies in the United States with over and in 2005 was awarded six new life licences for management as at 31 December 2005. three million policies and contracts in force.
M&G independently manages assets on behalf of a JNL offers fixed, fixed index, and variable Prudential is Europes leading life insurer in Asia wide range of retail and institutional investors.
M&G annuities, term and permanent life insurance in terms of market coverage and number of top five also acts as fund manager on many of the life and and institutional products.
Through its affiliates market positions and one of the regions largest pensions products sold by Prudential in the UK and and subsidiaries, JNL also provides asset foreign owned fund managers.
Europe, as well as managing Prudentials balance management and retail brokerage services.
Prudential Corporation Asia provides a sheet for profit.
JNL markets products in 50 states and the comprehensive range of savings, protection Retail business District of Columbia in the State of New York and investment products tailored to the needs Open Ended Investment Companies OEICs through Jackson National Life Insurance of each local market.
and Unit Trusts UTs Company of New York through independent It pioneered unit-linked products in Singapore, Investment Trusts ITs broker-dealers, independent agents, banks, Malaysia, Indonesia, the Philippines and Taiwan.
Individual Savings Accounts ISAs and Personal regional broker-dealers and the registered Equity Plans PEPs investment adviser channel.
Currently, Prudential Corporation Asia has a network of over 170,000 agents serving more than M&G and Prudential branded mutual funds are JNLs investment portfolio manager, PPM America seven million customers around the region.
distributed to retail investors in the UK, Europe Inc. manages around US$71 billion of assets.
M&G manages 14.6 billion Major strategic partnerships Customers of retail assets, invested in equities, fixed income Bank of China International for Mandatory More than three million policies and contracts and property.
CITIC Group for life and fund management In the UK, M&G is the fourth largest retail fund Staff business in China manager, with over one million unit holder accounts.
2,600 ICICI Bank for life and mutual funds business Institutional business in India Location Segregated fixed interest, pooled pension funds, In addition, Prudential Corporation Asia has a Headquartered in Lansing, Michigan structured and private finance number of distribution partnerships that include Segregated and pooled global macro strategy a number of leading banks.
mandates Staff Institutional customers include pension funds, 9,900 insurance companies and other financial institutions Locations M&G manages 21.6 billion of institutional assets, China invested in equities, fixed income, property and Hong Kong private equity.
Vietnam Staff 1,400 Locations UK: London, Chelmsford Europe: Germany, Austria, Italy, Spain, France Other: Australia, South Africa Also part of M&G Prudential Property Investment Managers PruPIM PPM Capital PPM South Africa In 2005, operating profit grew 20 per cent Record APE sales of 515 million were up Sales on an APE basis grew 23 per cent.
to 163 million and underlying profits grew 13 per cent on prior year.
New business profit Represents 48 per cent of total Group new 25 per cent to 138 million.
margin % of APE of 41 per cent up from business profit.
32 per cent in the prior year.
Gross fund inflows increased by 35 per cent Third party funds under management of to 7.9 billion.
Net fund inflows nearly doubled EEV operating profit on continuing operations 10.1 billion, up 29 per cent over 2004 on to 3.9 billion.
Further information IFRS operating profit on continuing operations IFRS operating profit of 157 million, up www.
com Customer helpline: 0800 390 390 Independent financial adviser IFA helpline: 0800 328 3191 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 9 Strategic overview Momentum 2005 was a good year for the Group, with strong progress made on all key performance measures, including a 33 per cent rise in total Group operating profits before tax European Embedded Value basis.
The momentum we have built can be seen clearly in the growth of both our insurance and asset management businesses around the world, and we now hold powerful positions in the leading retail financial services markets of the US, the UK and Asia.
As we look ahead, we feel confident that we have the skills and the resources we need to deliver increased value for our shareholders, by capitalising on the many opportunities for profitable growth in each market over the coming years.
Growth During the year, we increased new business sales in our insurance operations by 15 per cent, with each region delivering double-digit growth.
On the asset management side, we saw external funds under management grow by 26 per cent at M&G and 13 per cent in Asia.
The markets in which we operate all offer highly attractive growth prospects for the coming years, and our strong often market-leading positions mean that we are well placed to capture an increasing share of profitable growth in each.
In Asia, for example, we already hold top-five positions in eight out of the 12 life markets in which we operate, and five of these delivered growth of over 25 per cent in 2005.
During 2006, we will continue to build on these leadership positions by expanding our agency force, and developing further alternative distribution channels through banks and other third parties.
Across the Group, our focus will be on ensuring that we deliver both top and bottom line growth by combining strong income flows with greater operational and capital efficiency.
10 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 11 Strategic overview continued Value Throughout 2005, we maintained a relentless focus on profitability and value, and also enhanced the effectiveness of our capital management processes.
By this means, we ensure that we concentrate investment of resources on those areas of activity that generate the best returns for shareholders.
This work will continue into 2006 and beyond.
In 2006, each of our businesses will continue to pursue profitable opportunities in its own market, but we are also looking at ways to extract further value from effective collaboration across the Group, through initiatives such as globalisation of our IT infrastructure, which began last year.
We see particular opportunities arising in the UK as our three operations, Prudential, Egg and M&G, work together to provide our combined customer base with a broader range of financial services to meet their lifetime needs.
Egg customers, for instance, are already being offered PruHealth products, and further joint initiatives will be launched during 2006.
We expect collaboration between our UK businesses to produce cost savings of 40 million a year by the end of 2007.
Opportunity Demographic trends and the increasing concentration of wealth in the hands of those approaching, or already in, retirement presents a major opportunity for us to expand beyond our traditional life and pensions base, to become a significant provider of a broader range of preand post-retirement retail financial services.
In the US, 77 million baby boomers will be moving into retirement over the next 20 years, and Jackson National Life JNL is well positioned in terms of its product, distribution and operational capabilities, to capture a profitable share of this market.
Variable annuities in which JNL is a leading player is one of the few products in this market which offers the guaranteed income and withdrawal options that many retirees seek.
In 2005, we increased sales of this product by 31 per cent, against market growth of just 2.5 per cent.
We also hold strong positions in the advice-based channels that are becoming increasingly popular with customers, including ownership of the US sixth largest independent broker-dealer.
In the UK, we are a leading provider of high-margin bulk annuities and individual annuities, and we expect the Government pensions reforms which come into force this April to have a positive impact on the savings market over time.
Over the last year we have built up a strong position in the new multi-tie sector alongside our existing access to independent intermediaries.
Collaboration between our UK insurance operations and Egg will also increase our direct access to customers and give us flexibility to provide products such as lifetime mortgages that increase income in retirement.
In Asia, we are broadening out from our traditional life insurance base to offer products specifically designed for the retirement market.
In Taiwan, for example, we have introduced a new retirement-packaged regular premium unit-linked plan, which is proving popular with customers.
And, of course, whilst we capitalise on our advantaged position in the retirement services market we shall not neglect the opportunity to win new customers in younger age groups and build long-term relationships with them based on meeting their lifetime financial needs.
Prudential companies in all regions face enormous opportunities and we are confident that we are positioned for success.
12 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 13 Business review Looking to the future, we see great opportunities to build on our In 2005 the Group delivered double-digit leading position in life and pensions and also to develop a broader growth in sales and profits, with strong retail financial services proposition in the UK, through closer contributions from all regions.
We achieved collaboration between our three UK businesses, Prudential UK, these results by building on our strengths Egg and M&G, providing a range of products to suit customers in product offering and distribution and needs throughout their lifetimes.
maintaining an uncompromising focus on Banking returns and profitability.
Egg, our internet banking business, achieved operating profits from the core UK banking business of 60 million, down from UK insurance operations 72 million in 2004.
Prudential UK met its growth and value targets in 2005 with annual premium equivalent APE sales of 900 million.
This was driven by This result represents a strong performance given a very strong sales of bulk annuities and unit-linked bonds up 28 per cent challenging set of market conditions.
Regulatory changes also and 31 per cent respectively.
impacted this years business performance.
In particular, the changes to the sales processes of payment protection insurance While new business profits NBP increased marginally on 2004 products introduced in 2005 led to a significant reduction in at 243 million, the margin fell reflecting the changing product income from these products across the industry.
mix as we continued to expand our range of shareholder-backed products.
Throughout the year, there continued to be competitive Egg has completed the re-focus on its successful core UK banking pressure on margins across a range of products which Prudential business over the last 12 months.
The exit from France was substantially resisted.
completed in the first quarter of 2005 and in October Egg completed the sale of Funds Direct, its investment wrap platform We strengthened our distribution network by signing a number business.
Eggs cost income ratio was 43 per cent for 2005, down of significant new partnerships and continued our track record of from 49 per cent in 2004. product innovation, with the launch in October of a new lifetime mortgage product, Prudential Property Release Plan.
The plan The acquisition of the minority of Egg shares not held by gives customers greater flexibility over when they draw down Prudential, will enable us to capitalise on the product capabilities, funds, reducing the total interest charge over the lifetime of customer relationships and brand strengths of Prudential, M&G the loan, and is attracting growing support from advisers and and Egg more effectively than would have been possible within customers.
PruHealth saw growing sales throughout 2005, and the current shareholding structure.
now has more than 30,000 members.
United States The with-profits fund delivered a pre-tax return of 20 per cent, Our US business, Jackson National Life JNL, delivered record and over the last five years has achieved a total return of 41 per APE sales of 515 million, up 13 per cent, with retail sales up cent against six per cent for the FTSE 100 Total Return index and 12 per cent.
Variable annuity sales were also up 31 per cent 12 per cent for the FTSE All Share Total Return index.
We achieved against a market which increased by 2.5 per cent during 2005. this excellent performance through careful asset allocation which, The business achieved these results by continuing to focus on in 2005, involved increasing our exposure to equities.
value, and improved its new business profit margin to 41 per cent, from 32 per cent in 2004.
2006 is expected to be a year of change in the retirement savings market as the Governments reforms are introduced As the US population ages and the first wave of the countrys in April A-Day.
Prudential believes this should have a positive 77 million baby boomers approach retirement over the next year, impact on the savings environment.
we expect a significant increase in demand for products offering customers guaranteed income throughout retirement.
Annuities will be key, and JNL is very well positioned with its Perspective II contract.
14 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 JNL should also benefit from an increased demand for professional primary channel for some time, there is the potential to further advice, as a result of its strong relationships with third party expand alternate channels, particularly banks and direct marketing.
advisers, and its ownership of the sixth largest broker-dealer In summary, Prudential has an excellent track record of building network by revenues in the US.
a profitable business in Asia and the scale of opportunity for JNL has completed the integration of the 1.5 million Life of Georgia continued growth is clear.
policies on to its own operating platform.
The transaction has Asset management enabled the company to grow its life business at a higher return M&G and faster rate than it could have done organically.
JNL will consider M&G, our UK and European fund management business, operates further bolt-on acquisitions if appropriate opportunities arise.
in markets where it has a leading position and competitive During the year, JNL continued to generate significant levels advantage, including retail fund management, institutional fixed of capital, and increased the cash it returned to the Group to income, pooled life and pension funds, property and private US$150 million, from US$120 million in 2004. finance.
M&G also manages Prudentials balance sheet for profit.
M&G has scale in all key asset classes: it is one of the largest active Asia managers in the UK stockmarket, one of the largest bond investors Prudential Corporation Asia performed strongly again in 2005 with in the UK and one of the UKs largest property investors.
overall APE sales up 23 per cent to 731 million.
The NBP margin was 56 per cent compared to 61 per cent in 2004, representing The business had another excellent year, delivering operating changes in the geographic mix, economic assumption changes and profit up 20 per cent to 163 million and underlying profit product mix.
which excludes performance-related fees up 25 per cent to 138 million.
These strong results demonstrate M&Gs diversified Since the mid 1990s we have progressively built our Asian business, careful cost management and success in growing new platform: strengthening and protecting its market-leading positions revenue sources.
in the established markets Singapore, Hong Kong and Malaysia, entering emerging markets Thailand, Indonesia, Philippines, M&G enjoyed a record year for sales during 2005, with gross fund Vietnam, securing strong joint venture partners for the sizeable inflows increasing 35 per cent to 7.9 billion.
Net fund inflows also opportunities in India and China ICICI and CITIC respectively and grew significantly, almost doubling to 3.9 billion and external taking positions in the large North Asian markets of Taiwan, Japan funds under management, which represent a quarter of M&Gs and Korea.
We now have more than seven million customers in total funds, rose by 26 per cent to 36.2 billion.
Asia Prudential has focused on building proprietary distribution as the The Asian fund management business continued to expand in most effective method of delivering sustainable new business 2005 securing new fund management licences in China, through volumes and managing our customers: typically through growing a joint venture with CITIC, and in Vietnam.
The business now tied agency and integrated bancassurance arrangements.
We have operates in nine countries in Asia, and is a top-five foreign provider also prioritised economic capital efficiency, profitability and of mutual funds in all of these, with the exception of Japan.
customer focus in our Asian product portfolio.
The business has 26.2 billion of funds under management, of During 2005, the business continued to make solid progress which 10.1 billion related to third party funds.
Net inflows from in a number of key areas.
In China, six new cities were added.
third parties of 1.3 billion were driven by strong net inflows in CITIC-Prudential now has 10 cities operational and a further new Japan of 905 million and Korea of 926 million.
provincial city, Jinan in Shandong, was added in January 2006.
The geographic expansion of the past few years has been matched Strengthening distribution continues to be a major priority.
by growth in market share, with Korea, Japan, India and Malaysia In 2005, agent numbers grew by 26 per cent to over 170,000 being notable successes.
This has resulted in a strong upward with geographic expansion in India and China a key driver.
trend in profits with underlying profits increasing from 9 million in 2001 to 28 million in 2005.
Currently 75 per cent of Prudentials new business APE comes from its tied agency distribution and whilst this will remain the Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 15 Financial review Results highlights Total gross investment sales for 2005 were 26.4 billion, up The Group has delivered a good set of results for 2005, as six per cent on 2004 at RER.
Net investment flows of 5.2 billion illustrated by the double-digit growth of APE sales shown below.
were up 58 per cent on last year at RER.
As a result of improved sales in the UK, the US and Asia, the Total investment funds under management in 2005 increased Group delivered strong new business profits NBP in 2005. by 24 per cent from 37.2 billion to 46.3 billion at RER, reflecting This, together with the significant increase in contributions from net investment flows of 5.2 billion and net market and other the in-force insurance business and fund management operations, movements of 3.9 billion.
drove European Embedded Value EEV basis operating profit At 31 December 2005, total insurance and investment funds under up 33 per cent on 2004. management were 234 billion, an increase of 19 per cent up from On an International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS basis, 2004 at RER.
operating profit was up 36 per cent on last year driven by the growth Basis of preparation of results in profits from the long-term and fund management businesses.
From 1 January 2005, Prudential is required to account for its Impact of currency movements long-term insurance business on an IFRS basis.
In broad terms, Prudential has a diverse international mix of businesses with IFRS profits for long-term business contracts reflect the aggregate a significant proportion of its profit generated outside the UK.
of statutory transfers from with-profits funds and profits on a In 2005, 72 per cent of NBP and 54 per cent of IFRS operating traditional accounting basis for other long-term business.
Although profit was delivered from overseas operations.
In preparing the statutory transfers from with-profits funds are closely aligned the Groups consolidated accounts, results of overseas operations with cash flow generation, the pattern of IFRS profits over time are converted at rates of exchange based on the average for the from shareholder-backed long-term businesses will generally differ year, whilst shareholders funds are converted at year end rates from the cash flow pattern.
Over the life of a contract, however, of exchange.
aggregate IFRS profits will be the same as aggregate cash flow.
Changes in exchange rates from year to year have an impact As a signatory to the European CFO Forums EEV Principles, on the Groups results when these are converted into pounds Prudential also reports supplementary results on the EEV basis sterling for reporting purposes.
In some cases, these exchange for the Groups long-term business, including asset management rate fluctuations can mask underlying business performance.
operations and service companies that support the long-term businesses.
These results are combined with the IFRS basis results Consequently, the Board has for a number of years reviewed the of the Groups other businesses.
Groups international performance on a constant exchange rates CER basis.
This basis eliminates the impact from conversion, the Reference to operating profit relates to profit including the effects of which do not alter the long-term value of shareholders expected long-term rate of return on investments, but excludes interests in our non-UK businesses.
exceptional items, short-term fluctuations in investment returns and the effect of changes in economic assumptions.
In the financial review, year-on-year comparisons of financial performance are on a CER basis, unless otherwise stated.
International Financial Reporting Standards basis reporting The European Union EU requires that all listed European groups Sales and funds under management prepare their 2005 financial statements in accordance with EU approved IFRS.
The IFRS basis replaces the previous modified Long-term business APE sales statutory basis MSB of reporting.
To prepare the market for Double-digit growth in all business units m the changes the Group reported the impact of restating its 2004 Up 10% 1,000 results in its Economic and Financial Reporting announcement on 2 June 2005.
Up 23% 800 The announcement explained that the IFRS changes have Up 13% 600 been implemented in two stages.
First, for the purposes of formal IFRS adoption from 1 January 2004, all standards other 400 than IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, 200 and IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts have been applied.
0 Due to the complications for the retrospective application, UK US Asia particularly for the banking industry for financial instruments, 2004 the International Accounting Standards Board IASB allowed 2005 adoption of these three standards from 1 January 2005.
The Group has chosen to adopt this approach.
However, mindful Prudential delivered strong sales growth during 2005 with total of the impact on the Groups insurance operations, particularly new insurance sales up 13 per cent to 13.8 billion at CER.
This JNL, the Group has prepared supplementary pro forma results resulted in record insurance sales of 2.1 billion on the annual that show the effect of adopting these standards if they had been premium equivalent APE basis, an increase of 15 per cent on applied in 2004 for those businesses.
At reported exchange rates RER, APE was up 16 per cent that are of particular relevance to Prudentials results are: on 2004.
The strong growth is reflected across all regions with Altered valuation bases for JNL derivatives and fixed income APE up on 2004 by 10 per cent in the UK, 13 per cent in the US securities: and and 23 per cent in Asia at CER.
16 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 recognition of the shareholders share of deficits on defined locked-in capital allocated to each business, the adoption of benefit pension schemes in shareholders equity.
product specific risk discount rates, and an explicit valuation of the time value of options and guarantees.
The EEV results also In preparing its IFRS basis results the Group has chosen to include the value of future profits from fund management and continue to provide supplementary analysis of the profit before service operations that support the long-term business.
In most shareholder tax so as to distinguish operating results based on other respects the approach that Prudential used for its achieved longer-term investment returns, actuarial gains and losses on profits reporting already conforms to the requirements of the defined benefit pension schemes, and exceptional items.
Group has also made a discretionary change of accounting policy at the same time as the adoption of IFRS standards.
The change On the EEV basis, the shareholders interest in the Groups principally affects the determination of longer-term returns for long-term businesses comprises: JNL that are credited to operating results.
Total profit before tax The present value of future shareholder cash flows from in-force is unaffected by this change.
covered business value of in-force business, less a deduction Total profit before tax now includes value movements on for the cost of locked-in encumbered capital: derivatives that JNL uses for economic hedging together with the locked-in encumbered capital: and actuarial gains and losses on the Groups defined benefit pension schemes, and is expected to be more volatile as a result.
In shareholders net worth in excess of encumbered capital.
addition, IFRS basis shareholders funds will be more volatile from Stochastic valuations have been undertaken to determine the value period to period because of market value movements on fixed of in-force business including the cost of capital.
A deterministic income securities of JNL which are classified as available-for-sale.
valuation of the in-force business is also derived using consistent The adoption of IFRS does not have a significant impact on the assumptions, and the time value of the financial options and business or the underlying financial position.
guarantees is derived as the difference between the two.
European Embedded Value basis reporting The Group EEV results also incorporate the effect of the Life insurance products are, by their nature, long-term and the discretionary change to the basis of determining longer-term profit on this business is generated over a significant number of investment returns included in operating profits and IFRS changes years.
Accounting under IFRS does not, in Prudentials opinion, for pension scheme accounting and non-insurance operations as properly reflect the inherent value of these future profit streams.
Prudential believes that embedded value reporting provides European Embedded Value basis operating profit investors with a better measure of underlying profitability of the Total EEV basis operating profit based on longer-term investment Groups long-term businesses and is a valuable supplement to returns from continuing operations were 1,712 million, up 33 per statutory accounts.
At RER, the result was up 34 per cent.
This result reflects a combination of strong growth in all the insurance As a signatory to the European CFO Forums EEV Principles, and funds management businesses.
Prudential has adopted EEV methodology for its 2005 year end results.
This replaces the achieved profits basis of reporting.
The Prudentials insurance business achieved significant growth, both main impact of the change from the achieved profits basis on the in terms of NBP and in-force profit, resulting in a 30 per cent results arises from the effects of changes to the assumed level of increase in operating profit over 2004 at CER.
In 2005, the Group 2004 2004 EEV basis operating profit based on longer-term 2005 at CER Percentage 2005 at RER Percentage investment returns m m change m m change Insurance business: UK 426 486 12 % 426 486 12 % US 741 384 93% 741 382 94% Asia 576 473 22% 576 460 25% Development expenses 20 15 33 % 20 15 33 % 1,723 1,328 30% 1,723 1,313 31% Fund management business: M&G 163 136 20% 163 136 20% US broker-dealer and fund management 24 15 60% 24 15 60% Curian 10 29 66% 10 29 66% Asia fund management 12 20 40 % 12 19 37 % 189 142 33% 189 141 34% Banking: Egg UK 44 61 28 % 44 61 28 % Other income and expenditure 244 243 0% 244 241 1% Operating profit from continuing operations based on longer-term investment returns 1,712 1,288 33% 1,712 1,274 34% Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 17 Financial review continued has generated record NBP from insurance business of 867 million book were partially offset by adverse operating assumption which was 15 per cent above 2004 at CER, driven by strong sales changes and other experience variances.
At the half year, persistency assumptions were strengthened across The average Group NBP margin was 41 per cent up from 40 per cent a number of products, primarily in respect of with-profits bonds.
in 2004 on an APE basis and 5.2 per cent up from 5.0 per cent on This resulted in a charge of 148 million for 2005 on an EEV basis.
a present value of premiums basis.
The in-force profit includes a 148 million charge in respect of a persistency assumption During the year, Prudential carried out a review of its mortality change in the UK and a credit in the US of 140 million reflecting experience across all of its non-profit annuity business.
As a result an operating assumption change following price increases of this review, it strengthened the realistic and statutory male introduced on two blocks of in-force term life business announced assumptions and weakened the realistic female assumptions to at the half year.
In aggregate, net assumption changes were align the realistic assumptions with recent experience.
The total negative 54 million, with net positive experience variances and effect of the changes was to reduce operating profit by 47 million, other items of 79 million.
of which the main reduction arose from increasing the cost of capital.
Results from fund management and banking business were US operations 233 million, an increase of 15 per cent at CER on 2004.
This In the US, EEV operating profit based on longer-term investment was mainly driven by the significant contribution from M&G.
returns from long-term operations was 741 million, up 93 per cent at CER and up 94 per cent from prior year at RER.
JNLs NBP of 211 million was up 45 per cent on 2004, reflecting New business profits a 13 per cent increase in APE sales, and a significant improvement Value added by new business m in new business margin to 41 per cent from 32 per cent in 2004.
1,000 On a present value of premiums basis, the margin increased from 3.2 per cent to 4.1 per cent.
The improved margin reflects a 800 favourable business mix: an increase in the spread assumption for fixed index annuities reflecting the spread being achieved: 600 improved average policy sizes for variable and fixed annuities: 400 economic assumption changes, including an increase in the equity risk premium: and benefits derived from product pricing.
Pricing 200 benefits include the fee increase, introduced in May 2004, on the Perspective II product.
The margin on institutional business 0 improved due to the longer average duration contracts written 2004 2005 by JNL during 2005.
UK US The new business margin achieved on variable annuity business Asia in 2005 was 50 per cent compared with 36 per cent in 2004.
The improved margin was driven by economic assumption changes, UK insurance operations and a full year of benefit associated with the repricing, mentioned EEV basis operating profit based on longer-term investment above.
The economic assumption changes include an increase in returns of 426 million was down 12 per cent on 2004.
62 per cent the equity risk premium from three per cent to four per cent which of the profit was attributable to the with-profits fund.
Prudential believes more accurately reflects the volatility of equities.
Prudential UKs NBP remained in line with 2004 at 243 million.
The fixed index annuity margin has improved from the prior year This was driven by the 10 per cent increase in APE sales volumes due to an increase in the long-term spread assumption from which was offset by a fall in the NBP margin from 30 per cent in 175bps to 190bps, reflecting the spread being achieved.
2004 to 27 per cent in 2005 on an APE basis.
The movement in For JNL, the average IRR on new business was 15 per cent which margin reflected the shift in product mix in 2005 as Prudential reflects JNLs strong pricing discipline.
continued to expand its shareholder-backed product range, however, throughout the year, there continued to be competitive In the US, the in-force profit of 530 million is 123 per cent up on pressure on margins across a range of products which Prudential 2004 at CER.
The increase was primarily due to increased unwind substantially resisted.
of discount on the in-force business, an operating assumption change following price increases introduced on two older books Prudential allocates shareholder capital to support new business of term life business 140 million, and improved spread variance.
growth across a wide range of products in the UK.
The weighted The increase in the unwind of discount reflects the increase in risk average post-tax Internal Rate of Return IRR on the capital discount rates, following an increase in the equity risk premium allocated to new business growth in the UK in 2005 was 14 per cent from three per cent to four per cent.
Improved spread variance achieving the 2007 target set at the time of the Rights Issue two of 89 million is up from 41 million in the prior year, and reflects years early.
This increase was achieved by broadly maintaining achieved spreads in excess of the current weighted portfolio target or improving individual product IRRs during the year coupled on the regular portfolio.
The spread variance in 2005 also includes with a favourable product mix.
a number of non-recurring items including mortgage prepayment UK in-force profit of 183 million was down 25 per cent on 2004. fees, make-whole payments and total return swap income which The profits arising from the unwind of discount from the in-force together represent 60 million of the spread variance.
18 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Asia operations Asian fund management business EEV basis operating profit based on longer-term investment Profit from the Asian fund management operations was 12 million returns from long-term operations excluding development for the year, down 37 per cent from 2004 reflecting the exceptional and regional head office costs was 576 million for the year, costs of 16 million incurred due to bond fund restructuring up 22 per cent at CER and 25 per cent at RER on 2004. required as a result of industry wide issues in Taiwan.
Underlying profit from the Asian fund management operations, excluding In Asia, NBP of 413 million was up 13 per cent at CER on 2004 charges of 16 million, grew by 47 per cent to 28 million, a strong with increased sales offset partially by NBP margin.
During 2005, result indicative of the economies of scale the business is now APE sales were up 23 per cent on 2004 and the NBP margins were generating.
Adjusting for the reporting of India at 49 per cent 56 per cent on an APE basis and 10.2 per cent on a present value from 26 August 2005 results in an increase in profits of 55 per cent of premiums basis, compared with 61 per cent and 10.4 per cent over 2004. respectively in 2004 at CER.
The key drivers of lower margins in Asia compared to prior year were country mix reduction of two Egg percentage points, product mix principally in Taiwan reduction Eggs total continuing operating profit in 2005 was 44 million, of one percentage point and assumption changes reduction of compared with 61 million in 2004.
This reflected the increasingly two percentage points.
challenging market conditions and 10 million restructuring costs incurred in the first half of 2005.
Asias in-force profit before development expenses and the Asian fund management business increased to 163 million in 2005 Operating profit of the core UK banking business was 60 million.
This reflects a higher value The reduction from 72 million for 2004 primarily reflected the fact related to the unwind of the discount rate as the in-force business that although Egg successfully grew income by 31 million in a builds scale.
difficult market and cut 17 million from its cost base this was more than offset by an increase of 59 million in bad debts due In Asia we have target IRRs on new business at a country level to the changing mix in the portfolio, business growth plus a of 10 percentage points over the country risk discount rate.
Risk deterioration in credit quality driven by economic factors across discount rates vary from five per cent to 18 per cent depending the UK unsecured lending market.
upon the risks in each country market.
These target rates of return are average rates and the marginal return on capital on a particular Other product could be above or below the target.
Asias development expenses excluding the regional head office expenses increased by 33 per cent at CER to 20 million, We have, however, exceeded the target in each of Asias markets compared with 15 million in 2004. in 2005 except for Thailand and Japan, which have yet to reach scale.
In aggregate, IRR on new business exceeded 20 per cent on Other net expenditure remained constant over 2004. average new business risk discount rates for 2005 of 9.8 per cent.
Total EEV basis result before tax for continuing operations Asset management, banking and other Year-on-year comparisons below are based on RER.
M&G The result before tax and minority interests was a profit M&Gs operating profit was 163 million, an increase of 20 per cent of 2,244 million up 26 per cent on 2004.
This reflects an on last year.
This included 24 million in performance-related fees increase in operating profit from 1,274 million to 1,712 million, PRF, of which 17 million was earned by PPM Capital following together with a favourable movement of 431 million in another year of extremely profitable realisations on behalf of its short-term fluctuations in investment returns from 570 million clients.
These are not expected to recur.
This is offset by negative movements, principally Underlying profit excluding PRF of 138 million was 25 per cent 223 million due to changes in economic assumptions and higher than in 2004, an extremely strong result given that the a goodwill impairment charge of 120 million.
previous year included 7 million of non-recurring provision Short-term fluctuations in investment returns included 1,101 million releases.
Adjusting for this gives a like-for-like increase in profit relating to long-term insurance operations, made up of 995 million of 34 per cent over 2004. in the UK, 65 million in the US and 41 million in Asia, together US broker-dealer and fund management businesses with losses of 100 million in respect of other operations.
The broker-dealer and fund management operations reported Negative economic assumption changes of 349 million in 2005 profits of 24 million, compared with 15 million in 2004, primarily compared with negative economic assumption changes of due to a one-off 5 million revaluation related to an investment 126 million in 2004.
Economic assumption changes in 2005 vehicle managed by PPM America.
comprised negative 81 million in the UK, negative 3 million Curian in the US and negative 265 million in Asia.
Curian, which provides innovative fee-based separately managed In the UK, economic assumption changes of negative 81 million accounts, recorded losses of 10 million in 2005, improved from reflect the impact of the increase in the future investment return losses of 29 million in 2004, as the business continues to build assumption offset by the increase in the risk discount rate.
At year end 2005 Curian had grown assets under increases arise because although interest rates have decreased management to US$1.7 billion 973 million from US$1.1 billion over 2005, the equity risk premium assumption has increased from 615 million at year end 2004. three per cent to four per cent.
Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 19 Financial review continued In the US, economic assumption changes of negative 3 million International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS results primarily reflect increases in the risk discount rates following IFRS operating profit based on longer-term investment the increase in the equity risk premium from three per cent returns to four per cent, partially offset by an increase in the separate Group operating profit before tax from continuing operations account return assumption.
on the IFRS basis was 957 million, an increase of 36 per cent on the pro forma IFRS basis for 2004 at CER.
At RER, operating Asias negative economic assumption changes of 265 million profit was up 37 per cent on prior year.
This reflects strong growth primarily reflect the effect of lower bond yields in Taiwan which in insurance and funds management businesses.
necessitated a reduction in the Fund Earned Rate assumptions.
The economic scenarios used to calculate 2005 EEV basis results In the UK, IFRS operating profit increased 35 per cent to reflect the assumption of a phased progression of the bond yields 400 million in 2005.
This reflected a nine per cent increase from the current rates to the long-term expected rates.
The in profits attributable to the with-profits business, a consequence projections assume that, in the average scenario, the current of bonus declarations announced in February 2005 and February bond yields of around two per cent trend towards 5.5 per cent 2006, a 44 per cent increase in profits arising from annuities at 31 December 2012.
Allowance is made for the mix of assets business, and IFRS profits arising from the Phoenix Life and in the fund, our future investment strategy and the market value Pensions transaction completed in June 2005. depreciation of the bonds as a result of the assumed yield increases.
In the US, IFRS operating profit of 362 million was up 27 per cent on This gives rise to an average assumed Fund Earned Rate that trends 2004.
IFRS operating profit for long-term business was 348 million, from 2.3 per cent to 5.4 per cent in 2013 and falls below 2.3 per up 17 per cent from 298 million in 2004.
The US operations results cent for seven years due to the depreciation of bond values as are based on US GAAP, adjusted where necessary to comply with yields rise.
Thereafter, the Fund Earned Rate fluctuates around a IFRS as the Groups basis of presenting operating profit is based target of 5.9 per cent.
This compares to a grading of 3.4 per cent on longer-term investment returns.
In determining the US results, at 31 December 2004 to 5.9 per cent by 31 December 2012 for longer-term returns for fixed income securities incorporate a risk the 2004 results.
Consistent with our EEV methodology, a constant margin reserve RMR charge for longer-term defaults and discount rate has been applied to the projected cash flows.
amortisation of interest-related realised gains and losses.
The effect of change in the time value of cost of options and The growth in the US operations long-term IFRS operating profit guarantees was positive 47 million for the year, consisting of reflects a continued ability to deliver improved investment returns, 31 million, 11 million and 5 million for the UK, the US and Asia, with greater spread and fee income offset by higher amortisation respectively.
of deferred acquisition costs DAC.
In 2005, spread income was Total EEV basis result after tax for continuing operations 119 million higher than in 2004, and included a number of The result after tax, minority interests and discontinued operations non-recurring items including mortgage prepayment fees, makewas 1,582 million.
The tax charge of 653 million compares with whole payments and total return swap income which together a tax charge of 553 million in 2004.
Minority interests in the represented 60 million of spread income.
JNL achieved record Group results were 12 million.
fee income during 2005, driven by a 42 per cent increase in separate account assets held at year end, and improved returns on these assets.
EEV basis shareholders funds The 2004 result benefited from two one-off items, a favourable Analysis of movement: 2005 m legal settlement of 28 million 21 million after related charge to 12,000 amortisation of deferred acquisition costs and a positive 8 million adjustment arising from the adoption of new accounting guidance 11,000 in SOP 03-01, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises 10,000 for Certain Non-traditional Long Duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts.
This adjustment relates to a change in the 9,000 method of valuing certain liabilities.
8,000 The improvement in non-long-term business profits was primarily 7,000 driven by reduced losses recorded by Curian, down to 10 million from 29 million in 2004, as the business continues to build scale.
6,000 A B C D E F GH I J K L M N The result also benefited from an improvement in PPMA profits, A Opening 2005 EEV basis shareholders I Short-term fluctuations in primarily due to a one-off 5 million revaluation of an investment funds 8,614m investment returns 1,001m vehicle managed by PPMA.
B New business EEV profits 867m J Effect of changes in economic C In-force EEV profits 876m assumptions -349m Prudential Corporation Asias operating profit for long-term D M&G 163m K Tax, minority interests business before development expenses of 20 million was E Egg 44m and others -619m F Other non-life operations 26m L FX movements 442m 195 million, an increase of 64 per cent on 2004 at CER and G Other income and expenditure M External dividends -380m included a net 44 million profit related to exceptional items incl Asia Dev exp -264m N Closing 2005 shareholders H Goodwill impairment charge -120m funds 10,301m reported at the half year subsequently reduced by 14 million in restructuring costs for Japan.
At reported rates, operating 20 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 profits were 67 per cent up on last year.
The majority of this The results for discontinued operations reflects the sale of Jackson profit currently comes from the larger and more established Federal Bank and the discontinuation of Eggs France and Funds operations of Singapore, Hong Kong and Malaysia, which Direct operations.
represent 127 million of the total operating profit in 2005, Total IFRS profits result after tax for continuing excluding exceptional items, compared to 111 million last year.
operations In addition, markets such as Indonesia and Vietnam are becoming Profit after tax and minority interests was 748 million compared larger contributors to operating profits.
Five life operations made with 602 million in 2004.
IFRS losses: China and India which are relatively new businesses rapidly building scale: Thailand and Taiwan which are marginally Earnings per share loss making: and Japan where the loss increased over 2004 due Earnings per share, based on EEV basis operating profit after tax to restructuring costs incurred during the year.
and related minority interests were 56.6 pence, compared to 43.2 pence in 2004.
Earnings per share, based on IFRS operating Total IFRS profits result before tax for continuing profit after tax and related minority interests, were 32.2 pence, operations compared with a 2004 figure of 22.7 pence.
Year-on-year comparisons below are based on RER.
Basic earnings per share, based on total EEV basis profit from Total IFRS profits before tax attributable to shareholders and continuing operations for the year after minority interests, were minority interests were 998 million in 2005, compared with 66.8 pence, compared with a figure of 56.8 pence in 2004.
985 million on the pro forma basis for 2004.
The increase reflects: Basic earnings per share, based on IFRS profit from continuing growth in operating profit of 258 million offset by a goodwill operations for the year after minority interests, were 31.5 pence, impairment charge of 120 million in relation to the Japanese life in line with the 2004 figure.
business: decrease in short-term fluctuations in investment return, down 82 million from 2004: and a 43 million negative movement Dividend per share from the prior year in actuarial gains and losses attributable to We intend to maintain our current dividend policy, with the level shareholder-backed operations in respect of the Groups defined of dividend growth being determined after considering the benefit pension schemes.
opportunities to invest in those areas of our business offering attractive growth prospects, our financial flexibility and the The development of the Japanese life business has been slower development of our statutory profits over the medium to long term.
than expected and, following its restructuring and the annual impairment review, Prudential concluded that the purchased The Board recommends a full year dividend per share for 2005 of goodwill associated with this business of 120 million should 16.32 pence, an increase of three per cent over the full year 2004 be written off.
Pro forma Pro forma 2004 2004 2005 at CER Percentage 2005 at RER Percentage IFRS operating profit based on longer-term investment returns m m change m m change Insurance business: UK 400 296 35% 400 296 35% US 348 298 17% 348 296 18% Asia 195 119 64% 195 117 67% Asia development expenses 20 15 33 % 20 15 33 % 923 698 32% 923 694 33% Fund management business: M&G 163 136 20% 163 136 20% US broker-dealer and fund management 24 15 60% 24 15 60% Curian 10 29 66% 10 29 66% Asia fund management 12 20 40 % 12 19 37 % 189 142 33% 189 141 34% Banking: Egg UK 44 61 28 % 44 61 28 % Other income and expenditure 199 198 1 % 199 197 1 % Operating profit from continuing operations based on longer-term investment returns 957 703 36% 957 699 37% The comparative IFRS results shown above are prepared on a pro forma basis which reflects the estimated effect on the 2004 results as if IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 had been applied from 1 January 2004 to the Groups insurance operations together with the discretionary change for the basis of determining longer-term investment returns, as disclosed on 2 June 2005.
Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 21 Financial review continued Dividend cover based on reported post-tax IFRS operating profits Cash flow from continuing operations is 1.9 times.
Dividend cover based on The table below shows the Group holding company cash flow.
reported IFRS operating profits from continuing operations and Prudential believes that this format gives a clearer presentation of normalised tax rate of 30 per cent is 1.7 times.
the use of the Groups resources than the format of the statement required by IFRS.
Shareholders funds 2005 2004 m m On the EEV basis, which recognises the shareholders interest in long-term businesses, shareholders funds at 31 December 2005 Cash remitted by business units: were 10.3 billion, an increase of 1.7 billion from the 2004 year UK life fund transfer 194 208 end level after restating for relevant IFRS changes.
This 20 per cent UK other dividends including special increase primarily reflects: total EEV basis operating profit of dividend 103 100 1,712 million: a 1,001 million favourable movement in short-term JNL 85 62 fluctuations in investment returns: and the positive impact of Asia 73 67 442 million for foreign exchange movements.
These were offset M&G 62 84 by: a 302 million negative movement due to changes in economic Total cash remitted to Group 517 521 assumptions: a tax charge of 653 million: dividend payments Net interest paid 115 119 of 325 million made to shareholders net of scrip dividend : and Dividends paid 378 323 the impairment charge of 120 million in respect of purchased Scrip dividends and share options 55 119 goodwill associated with the Japanese life business.
Cash remittances after interest and At year end 2005, the embedded value for the Asian long-term dividends 79 198 business as a whole was 2.0 billion.
The established markets Tax received 107 34 of Hong Kong, Singapore and Malaysia contribute 1.8 billion Corporate activities 66 56 to the embedded value generated across the region with Korea Cash flow before investment in businesses 120 176 136 million and Vietnam 127 million making further Capital invested in business units: substantial contributions.
Our other markets of China, India, UK 249 189 Indonesia, Japan, Thailand and the Philippines in aggregate Asia 169 158 contribute 211 million in embedded value.
Growth in embedded value for the Asian business as a whole has been partially offset Total capital invested in business units 418 347 by a negative embedded value in Taiwan of 311 million which Decrease in cash before Rights Issue includes the associated cost of economic capital, and reflects the proceeds 298 171 low interest rate environment in Taiwan.
Rights Issue proceeds 0 1,021 The current mix of business in Taiwan is weighted heavily towards Decrease increase in cash 298 850 unit-linked and protection products, representing 73 per cent and In respect of prior years bonus declarations.
16 per cent of new business APE in 2005, respectively.
As a result, interest rates have little effect on new business profitability and The Group holding company received 517 million in cash a one per cent reduction in assumed interest rates would reduce remittances from business units in 2005 2004: 521 million new business margins in Taiwan by only two percentage points.
comprising the shareholders statutory life fund transfer of However, the in-force book in Taiwan, predominantly made up 198 million relating to the 2004 bonus declarations, of which of whole of life policies, has an embedded value that is sensitive 194 million was remitted from the UK and 4 million from Asia, to interest rate changes.
A one per cent decrease in interest rates, together with other remittances from subsidiaries of 319 million.
along with consequential changes to assumed investment returns This includes a special dividend of 100 million from the Prudential for all asset classes, market values of fixed interest assets and risk Assurance Company PAC shareholders funds in respect of profit discount rates, would result in a 174 million decrease in Taiwans arising from earlier business disposals and a separate payment of embedded value.
A similar one per cent positive shift in interest US$150 million from JNL.
The reduced transfer from M&G is due rates would increase embedded value by 106 million.
Sensitivity to a higher level of reinvestment in 2005 in new activities together of the embedded value to interest rate changes varies considerably with a remittance of surplus cash in 2004. across the region.
In aggregate, a one per cent decrease in interest After net dividends and interest paid, there was a net cash inflow rates, along with all consequential changes noted above, would of 79 million 2004: 198 million.
result in only a six per cent decrease to Asias embedded value.
During 2005, the Group holding company paid 66 million in Statutory IFRS basis shareholders funds at 31 December 2005 respect of corporate activities and received 107 million in respect were 5.2 billion.
This compares with 4.7 billion on the pro forma of tax.
Tax received in 2004 of 34 million was after an exceptional IFRS basis at 31 December 2004.
The increase primarily reflects payment of 60 million related to the sale of equity securities profit after tax and minority interests of 748 million and positive backing the general insurance business.
The 107 million balance foreign exchange movements of 268 million, offset by dividend in 2005 represents surrendered tax losses reimbursed by the payments to shareholders net of scrip dividend of 325 million.
22 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Group.
The Group invested 418 million 2004: 347 million in United States its business units, comprising 249 million in its UK operations and The capital adequacy position of JNL remains strong, having 169 million in Asia.
During 2006, Prudential continues to expect improved the capital ratio from 8.5 per cent in 2004 to 9.2 per cent that Asia will be a net capital provider to the Group.
JNLs statutory capital, surplus and asset valuation reserve position improved year-on-year by US$434 million, after deducting In aggregate this gave rise to a decrease in cash of 298 million the US$150 million of capital remitted to the parent company.
2004: 850 million increase, after Rights Issue proceeds.
JNLs financial strength is rated AA by Standard & Poors negative As a result of the bonus declarations made in February 2005 outlook and A1 by Moodys.
and February 2006, the shareholder transfer is expected to be Asia 223 million in 2006.
Prudential Corporation Asia maintains solvency margins in each Cash invested to support the UK business in 2006 will be less than of its operations so that these are at or above the local regulatory 2005, up to 230 million depending on the mix of business written requirements.
Across the region less than 20 per cent of non-linked and the opportunities available.
funds are invested in equities.
Shareholders borrowings and financial flexibility Inherited estate Net core structural borrowings at 31 December 2005 were The long-term fund contains the amount that the Company 1,611 million compared with 1,236 million at 31 December expects to pay out to meet its obligations to existing policyholders 2004.
This reflects the net cash outflow of 298 million, exchange and an additional amount used as working capital.
The amount conversion losses of 92 million and IFRS adjustments of negative payable over time to policyholders from the with-profits sub-fund 15 million.
is equal to the policyholders accumulated asset shares plus any additional payments that may be required for smoothing or to After adjusting for holding company cash and short-term meet guarantees.
The balance of the assets of the with-profits investments of 1,128 million, core structural borrowings sub-fund is called the inherited estate and represents the major of shareholder-financed operations excluding Egg at the end part of the working capital of Prudentials long-term fund which of 2005 totalled 2,739 million, compared with 2,797 million enables the Company to support with-profits business by: at the end of 2004.
This decrease reflected the repayment of US$250 million bonds, the issuance of US$300 million Perpetual Providing the benefits associated with smoothing and guarantees: Subordinated Capital Securities, the repayment of 171 million of providing investment flexibility for the funds assets: short-term borrowings, exchange conversion losses of98 million and IFRS adjustments noted above.
meeting the regulatory capital requirements, which demonstrate solvency: and Prudential plc enjoys strong debt ratings from both Standard & Poors and Moodys.
Prudential long-term senior debt is rated AA absorbing the costs of significant events, or fundamental negative outlook and A2 stable outlook from Standard & Poors changes in its long-term business without affecting bonus and Moodys respectively, while short-term ratings are A1 and P-1.
Financial strength of insurance operations The size of the inherited estate fluctuates from year to year United Kingdom depending on the investment return and the extent to which The fund is very strong with an inherited estate measured on it has been required to meet smoothing costs, guarantees an essentially deterministic valuation basis of around 9.0 billion and other events.
compared with 6.8 billion at the end of 2004.
On a realistic basis, The Company believes that it would be beneficial if there were with liabilities recorded on a market consistent basis, the free greater clarity as to the status of the inherited estate.
In due assets were valued at around 8.0 billion before a deduction for course, after discussions with the Financial Services Authority, the the risk capital margin.
Company may therefore take steps to achieve that clarity, whether The PAC long-term fund is rated AA by Standard & Poors and through guidance from the court or otherwise.
In any event the Aa1 by Moodys.
Company expects that the entire inherited estate will need to be retained within the long-term fund for the foreseeable future to The investment return on the Prudential main with-profits fund provide working capital and so it is not considering any distribution was 20 per cent in the year to 31 December 2005 compared with of the inherited estate to policyholders and shareholders.
the rise in the FTSE All Share Total Return Index of 22 per cent over the same period.
Over the last 10 years the with-profits fund has consistently generated positive fund returns with three, five and 10-year compound returns of 16.6 per cent per annum, 7.1 per cent per annum and 10.1 per cent per annum respectively, compared with corresponding increases in the FTSE All Share Index Total Return of 18.5 per cent, 2.2 per cent and 7.9 per cent.
Philip Broadley These returns demonstrate the benefits of the funds strategic Group Finance Director asset allocation and long-term outperformance.
Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 23 Corporate responsibility review Acting responsibly Management and policy At Prudential, corporate responsibility CR is not an optional extra.
Prudential has developed a Group Governance Framework which It is fundamental to how we operate and is a philosophy that is is underpinned by a Group Governance Manual and associated now embedded in the business.
This encompasses all key policies and procedures, for example our Group Code of Business Conduct, our CR Policy and We recognise that our stakeholders increasingly support those our Health and Safety Policy.
We set our own codes and policies companies that define and exhibit sound values around trust, that often go further than legislative requirements.
Prudential also operates a Group Risk Framework which focuses We also believe that a companys performance in key areas on reputation issues, including those of a social, ethical and of conduct such as corporate governance, environmental environmental nature.
The controls, which are applicable across management and employment practices can have a significant the Group, are set out in the Group Governance Manual.
impact on its financial performance.
Prudentials Group Finance Director, Philip Broadley, has Board Over the last year we have therefore reviewed our CR strategy to level responsibility for social, environmental and ethical risk ensure that it continues to align our business objectives with our stakeholder concerns.
Stakeholder dialogue Trust SSAT and National Institute of community and our policy on not Stakeholder engagement enables our Adult Continuing Education NIACE, making political donations is laid out employees and relevant external groups thousands of adults and children are in the Annual Report.
to help shape what we do and ensure now benefiting and learning how to A new international employee that their reasonable expectations are make decisions that will have a profound volunteering programme, The translated into business value.
In 2005, effect on the quality of their lives.
Chairmans Award, was launched across the CR unit discussed the CR programme We extended our initiative to Asia in the Group in December 2005.
The with customers and consumers in the 2004, with an innovative programme initiative encourages employees to UK, using PruBus, a qualitative research called Investing in Your Future, which volunteer with charities within their local study.
Prudential UK has separately focuses on women, who are often communities.
The charities involved all continued to hold monthly MeetPru responsible for planning for their familys address the needs of the elderly or events, which give our customers the financial needs.
This was first launched children, and run projects that have opportunity to meet members of the UK in China and rolled out to Vietnam in aspects of financial literacy at their core, executive team and ask questions about 2005.
During 2006, we will extend this thereby supporting the Groups CR both their own policies and broader programme into India.
We now have projects in issues, including the CR programme.
than 5,000 women have graduated from most of our markets.
Improving financial capability the programme in Asia.
In 2005, Prudentials employees and Our financial education programme is More details of our international financial our businesses around the world made based on the recognition that we need literacy programme are available in our significant financial contributions in to play our part in enabling consumers 2005 06 Learning for Life publication.
response to four separate disasters: the to make the right decisions for their The booklet can be accessed at Asian tsunami: Hurricane Katrina in the individual needs.
co. uk prudentialUS: the London bombings and the from debt management to savings needs.
plc cr library research Mumbai floods.
Informing and empowering consumers to make such decisions will, we believe, Investing in our communities The Prudential Caring Fund was set up in build better and more permanent In 2005, we invested 4.7 million in January 2005, to help the local residents relationships between consumers a wide range of projects around our in countries severely impacted by the and providers.
business, supporting education, welfare devastating Asian tsunami.
This total was raised from voluntary employee We began developing our Financial includes the significant contribution donations, along with matched funding Literacy programme in the United made by many of our people around by Prudentials business units in the UK, Kingdom in 2001.
Five years later, the Group through volunteering, the US and Asia.
we are seeing significant progress.
often linked with professional skills The money raised has been distributed In the UK, via partnerships with diverse development.
It also includes direct to the countries hardest hit by the organisations such as Citizens Advice, donations to charitable organisations tsunami: Indonesia the primary the Personal Finance Education Group of 3.5 million.
A detailed breakdown recipient : India: Thailand and Sri Lanka.
pfeg, Specialist Schools and Academies of Prudentials investment in the We used our local knowledge to identify 24 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 management.
The Board discusses Prudentials performance on In 2005, we engaged KPMG LLP to conduct a review of our CR this at least once a year.
The Board also reviews and approves our management and internal and external reporting arrangements.
KPMG provided a report to our senior management team, summarising recommendations for improvement.
In particular, The Corporate Responsibility Committee is a specialist GroupKPMG highlighted that Prudential would benefit from conducting wide committee chaired by the Group Finance Director, and another formal review of the material CR risks for the business.
In is responsible for reviewing business conduct and social and response to this, a CR risk workshop was organised in February environmental policy.
2006, with participation from all of the business units.
Our CR unit develops our strategy, provides training across the In 2006, we have engaged KPMG to review the key CR performance Group, and works closely with individual business units to provide indicators identified in our workshop, which we will use to help advice ensuring that our core values are maintained and assisting develop our CR risk management strategy for reporting and with the adaptation of Group-wide initiatives so that they meet external assurance.
appropriate charities to ensure our United Nations Environment Programme our policies and business actions donations made the most impact.
Our Finance Initiative UNEP FI, PruPIM is promote the consideration of the support focused on children and the creating awareness of the implications of environment.
rebuilding and or improvement of climate change for property investment PruPIM is the first UK property company schools and libraries.
and how we should address this.
to achieve full ISO14001 certification, In Indonesia, for example, we are Employee work-life balance the internationally recognised working with United Nations Childrens Engaging with employees and environmental management standard.
Fund UNICEF to support their understanding their expectations about The scope of this certification covers all Creating Learning Communities for corporate values, transparency, career PruPIMs operations, including its Children initiative.
Our support will help development, performance management, property investment portfolio in the UK improve the quality of education at over diversity and work-life balance is and its head office function, in High 90 primary schools by improving school important.
This understanding helps us to Holborn, London.
management, community participation, attract, retain and motivate our employees.
In the US, Jackson National Life JNL and the entire teaching learning process In Asia, for example, employee has carefully monitored and worked to training over 1,700 teachers and education is provided across our Asian minimise any negative environmental benefiting over 21,000 students.
markets through PRUuniversity, which impact since it moved to its current Socially responsible investment SRI is available to all staff and is offered in headquarters in 2000, working with state M&Gs approach to socially responsible 12 languages.
Programmes are centrally and local authorities on new projects investment SRI is set out in the booklet credited and many are endorsed by which protect the environment.
Issues Arising from Share Ownership, external learning institutions.
The courses Further information can be found in available at www.
co. uk cover CR, management and leadership, Acting Responsibly, our full Corporate SRI has focused principally on equity technical and business skills as well as a Responsibility Report 2005 6, accessed markets, with the property investment comprehensive range of self-improvement at www.
co. uk community slower to address the issue material including language courses.
prudential-plc cr A hard copy of the of sustainability.
However, with more Further information about our approach report is available from our CR unit: than 17.2 billion as at 31 December to equal opportunities and employee Laurence Pountney Hill, London 2005 of funds under management, involvement can be found in the Annual EC4R 0HH.
Prudential Property Investment Managers Report.
Limited PruPIM, a subsidiary of M&G, is one of the UKs largest commercial Environment sustainable property investment managers and development accounts for approximately 80 per cent Protecting the environment is essential of Prudentials direct environmental for the quality of life of current and impact in the UK.
The challenge is to in the Institutional Investors Group on combine continuing economic growth climate change and our participation with long-term sustainable development.
on the property working group of the As such, we will endeavour to ensure Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 25 Board of directors Chairman Executive directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 1.
Sir David Clementi MA FCA MBA 3.
Mark Norbom Chairman and Chairman of the Nomination Group Finance Director.
Aged 57 Philip Broadley has been an executive director of Mark Norbom has been an executive director Sir David Clementi has been Chairman of Prudential Prudential and Group Finance Director since May of Prudential and Chief Executive, Prudential since 1 December 2002.
In May 2005 he was appointed as a nonCorporation Asia since January 2004.
Previously, appointed as President of the Investment Property executive director of Egg plc, which delisted on he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Forum.
In October 2003, he joined the FSAs 20 February 2006.
He is currently Chairman of the General Electric Japan, and a company officer of Financial Capability Steering Group, and in July 100 Group of Finance Directors and a member of General Electric Company.
He has spent 23 years 2003 he was appointed by the Secretary of State the Insurance Advisory Group of the International with General Electric in various posts in the United for Constitutional Affairs to carry out a review of Accounting Standards Board.
He is also President of States, Taiwan, Indonesia, Thailand and Japan.
the regulation of legal services in England and the Przezornosc Charitable Foundation, which has 7.
Nick Prettejohn Wales, which was completed in December 2004. been established in Poland in recognition of former Executive director.
Aged 45 In February 2003 he joined the Financial Reporting policyholders with whom the Company lost contact.
Nick Prettejohn has been an executive director Council.
In addition, Sir David is a non-executive Previously, he was with the UK firm of Arthur of Prudential and Chief Executive, Prudential UK & director of Rio Tinto plc, which he joined on Andersen, where he became a partner in 1993.
He is also a member 28 January 2003.
Clark Manning FSA MAAA of the Financial Services Practitioner Panel.
2002 he was Deputy Governor of the Bank of Executive director.
Aged 47 Previously, he was Chief Executive of Lloyds England.
During this time he served as a member Clark Manning has been an executive director of of London from July 1999 until December 2005. of the Monetary Policy Committee and as a nonPrudential since January 2002.
He is also President He joined the Corporation of Lloyds in 1995 as executive director of the Financial Services and Chief Executive Officer of Jackson National Head of Strategy, and played a key role in the Authority.
From 1975 to August 1997 he worked Life.
He was previously Chief Operating Officer, Reconstruction and Renewal process, which for the Kleinwort Benson Group, latterly as Chief Senior Vice President and Chief Actuary of Jackson reorganised Lloyds after the losses of the late Executive.
National Life, which he joined in 1995.
Prior to that, 1980s and early 1990s.
Mark Tucker ACA he was Senior Vice President and Chief Actuary completion of the reorganisation in 1996 he Group Chief Executive.
Aged 48 for SunAmerica Inc, and prior to that Consulting became Managing Director of Lloyds Business Mark Tucker was re-appointed as an executive Actuary at Milliman & Robertson Inc.
He has more Development Unit and in 1998 he also assumed director on 6 May 2005, on which date he also than 20 years experience in the life insurance responsibility for Lloyds North America business became Group Chief Executive.
From May 2004 industry, and holds both a bachelors degree in unit.
Prior to his appointment to Lloyds he was to March 2005 he was Group Finance Director, actuarial science and an MBA from the University responsible for corporate strategy at National HBOS plc and director of Halifax plc.
He also holds professional designations of Freight Corporation plc, and prior to that he was he was an executive director of Prudential from Fellow of the Society of Actuaries FSA and Member a partner at management consultants Bain and Co 1999 to 2003, and from 1993 to 2003 he was Chief of the American Academy of Actuaries MAAA.
and a director of private equity company Apax Executive of Prudential Corporation Asia, and also Partners.
He is also a board member of the Royal 5.
Michael McLintock held senior positions in Prudentials businesses in Opera House.
He first joined Prudential in 1986, Michael McLintock has been an executive director having previously been a tax consultant at of Prudential since September 2000.
He is also PriceWaterhouse UK in London.
Chief Executive of M&G, a position he held at the time of M&Gs acquisition by Prudential in March 1999.
He is also a non-executive director of Close Brothers Group plc.
26 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Non-executive directors 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 8.
Keki Dadiseth FCA and was appointed Chairman of the Evian Group of the Audit Committees of EMI Group plc and Independent non-executive director and member of in 2001, a think tank and forum for dialogue Great Portland Estates PLC.
She is also Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
He also serves as a nonthe Invensys Pension Scheme.
Previously, she was a Keki Dadiseth has been an independent nonexecutive director on the Boards of the Bobst non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit executive director of Prudential since April 2005.
Group Switzerland and Hasbro Inc. in the USA.
Committee of the Court of the Bank of England, He is a member of the International Advisory and a non-executive director of O plc.
Bridget Macaskill Boards of Marsh & McLennan Companies Inc. and she was Chief Financial Officer of BTR and Invensys, Independent non-executive director and DaimlerChrysler Benz.
He is also an International and before that she was a partner at Ernst & Young.
member of the Remuneration and Nomination Advisor to Goldman Sachs.
In 2005 he was appointed Committees.
James Ross to the Board of Nicholas Piramal India Limited and Bridget Macaskill has been an independent nonIndependent non-executive director and member Siemens Limited in India, and he is a director of executive director of Prudential since September of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Aged 67 The Indian Hotels Company Limited and the Indian 2003.
She rejoined the Board of Prudential having James Ross has been an independent non-executive School of Business.
Before he retired from Unilever previously resigned due to a potential conflict of director since May 2004.
He holds non-executive in May 2005, he was Director, Home and Personal interest in March 2001.
She is a non-executive directorships with McGraw Hill and Datacard in the Care, responsible for the HPC business of Unilever director of J Sainsbury Plc and the Federal National United States and Schneider Electric in France.
He worldwide, a Board member of Unilever PLC and Mortgage Association Fannie Mae.
She was is also Chairman of the Leadership Foundation for Unilever N. V. and a member of the Executive previously Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Higher Education.
He was previously Chairman of Committee.
He joined Hindustan Lever Ltd in India OppenheimerFunds Inc, a major New York based National Grid plc and Littlewoods plc.
He was also in 1973. investment management company.
Chief Executive of Cable and Wireless plc and 9.
Michael Garrett Chairman and Chief Executive of BP America Inc. 11.
Roberto Mendoza Independent non-executive director and member and a Managing Director of the British Petroleum Independent non-executive director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Aged 60 Michael Garrett has been an independent nonRoberto Mendoza has been an independent non- 14.
Rob Rowley FCMA executive director of Prudential since September executive director of Prudential since May 2000.
He worked for Nestl from 1961, becoming He was appointed as Chairman of the Remuneration Chairman of the Audit Committee and member Head of Japan 1990-1993, and then Zone Director Committee in July 2002.
He is also Chairman of of the Nomination Committee.
Aged 56 and Member of the Executive Board, responsible Integrated Finance Limited, and he was the nonRob Rowley has been an independent nonfor Asia and Oceania, and in 1996 his responsibilities executive Chairman of Egg plc, which delisted executive director of Prudential since July 1999.
He were expanded to include Africa and the Middle on 20 February 2006.
Previously, he was Vice was appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee East.
He retired as Executive Vice President of Chairman and director of JP Morgan & Co. Inc. a in June 2000 and as Senior Independent Director of Nestl in April 2005.
In addition, he served the non-executive director of Reuters Group PLC and Prudential in December 2003.
He is also executive Government of Australia as Chairman of the Food The BOC Group plc, and a managing director of Deputy Chairman of Cable and Wireless plc and a Industry Council and as a Member of the Industry Goldman Sachs.
non-executive director of Liberty International plc.
Council of Australia, and was also member of the Until the end of 2005, he was also a non-executive Advisory Committee for an APEC Asia-Pacific 12.
Kathleen ODonovan ACA director of Taylor Nelson Sofres plc.
He retired as a Economic Cooperation Food System, a Member of Independent non-executive director and member director of Reuters Group PLC in December 2001, The Turkish Prime Ministers Advisory Group and of the Audit Committee.
Aged 48 where he was Finance Director from 1990 to 2000. the WTO World Trade Organization Business Kathleen ODonovan has been an independent Advisory Council in Switzerland.
He remains a non-executive director of Prudential since May director of Nestl companies in India and Japan, 2003.
She is a non-executive director and Chairman Ages as at 15 March 2006 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 27 Summary corporate governance report The directors are committed to high standards of corporate Company.
There were four additional Board meetings, and the governance and support the Combined Code on Corporate majority of the directors attended most of those meetings.
Where Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Code.
a director was not able to attend any of the additional meetings, Apart from the requirement under the Code that shareholders their views were canvassed by the Chairman prior to the meeting.
be sent the notice of Annual General Meeting at least 20 working A further six Board Committee meetings took place during the days before the meeting, the Company has complied throughout year.
In addition, the Chairman met with the non-executive the financial year ended 31 December 2005 with all the Code directors without the executive directors being present in March, provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
As a result of the late July and December.
The Boards terms of reference, which are publication of FRS 27, Life Assurance which was only released regularly reviewed, set out those matters specifically reserved to on 13 December 2004, the Company was unable to comply with it for decision, in order to ensure that it exercises control over the the 20 working day requirement under the Code and so gave the Groups affairs.
statutory 21 clear days notice of the Annual General Meeting.
A corporate governance framework approved by the Board maps We have applied the principles of the Code in the manner out the internal approvals processes and those matters which may described below and in the summary remuneration report.
2005 Annual Report contains our full corporate governance The Board has approved a procedure whereby directors have the statement and remuneration report.
right in furtherance of their duties to seek independent professional The Board advice at the Companys expense.
As at 31 December 2005, the Board comprised the Chairman, Throughout the year, all the non-executive directors were five executive directors and seven independent non-executive considered by the Board to be independent in character and directors.
Since the year-end, Nick Prettejohn has been appointed judgement.
Non-executive directors are appointed initially for as an additional executive director with effect from 1 January 2006. a three-year term.
Their appointment is reviewed towards the end The non-executive directors bring a wide range of business, of this period against performance and the requirements of the financial and global experience to the Board.
Upon appointment, all directors embark upon of the current Board members appear on pages 26 and 27.
A programme of on-going roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate and professional development was undertaken for all directors in 2005. clearly defined, and have been approved by the Board so that no individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The Chairman All directors are required to submit themselves for re-election is responsible for the leadership and governance of the Board at the Annual General Meeting at least every three years, and as a whole and the Group Chief Executive for the management annually following their reaching the age of 70. of the Group and the implementation of Board strategy and policy An evaluation was carried out of the performance of the Board and on the Boards behalf.
In discharging his responsibility, the Group its Committees, and of the individual directors, for the year 2005, Chief Executive is advised and assisted by the Group Executive in line with the requirements of the Code.
The aim was to improve Committee, comprising all the business unit heads and a Group individual contributions, the effectiveness of the Board and its Head Office team of functional specialists.
Rob Rowley is the Committees and the Groups performance.
Companys Senior Independent Director, to whom concerns may be conveyed by shareholders if they are unable to resolve them As a major institutional investor, the Company is acutely aware of through the existing mechanisms for investor communications, the importance of maintaining good relations with its shareholders.
or where such channels are inappropriate.
The Chairman meets, The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director gave feedback at least annually, with the non-executive directors without the to the Board on issues raised with them by major shareholders.
Should major shareholders wish to meet newly appointed directors they are welcome to do so.
During 2005, the Board met 14 times and held a separate two-day strategy meeting.
Each year, one of the Board meetings is held at The Board has adopted a Code of Business Conduct, which one of the Groups business operations to facilitate a fuller sets out the behaviour expected of staff in their dealings with understanding of the diversity of the business.
All the directors shareholders, customers, fellow employees, suppliers and other attended all scheduled Board meetings occurring during their stakeholders of the Group.
A copy of the Companys Code of period of appointment, apart from Jonathan Bloomer and Mark Business Conduct may be found on the website Wood, who were not required to attend Board meetings after www.
co. uk prudential-plc cr managementpolicies it had been agreed that they would cease to be directors of the codeofconduct 28 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Board committees The Audit Committee reviewed the Groups statement on internal The Board has established the following standing committees control systems prior to its endorsement by the Board.
It also of non-executive directors with written terms of reference which reviewed the policies and processes for identifying, assessing and are kept under regular review: managing business risks.
Audit Committee report From 31 December 2006, the Group must undertake an annual At Prudential, the Audit Committee is a key element of the assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial governance framework.
This report sets out its responsibilities reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The and the work the Committee has done to meet its objectives.
Committee has overseen the progress of this project through regular status reports submitted by management in 2005.
During The Audit Committees principal oversight responsibilities cover: the year, the Groups external auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, reported Internal control and risk management: to the Committee on the Companys progress towards compliance with Section 404. internal audit: Each of the Groups business units has an internal audit team, the external audit including auditor independence : and heads of which, from 1 January 2006, report to the Group-wide financial reporting.
Internal audit resources, plans and work are overseen by the Group Audit Committee and by business unit The Committee has formal terms of reference set by the Board, audit committees.
During the year, the committees reviewed and which are reviewed regularly.
approved internal audits plans, resources and the results of its All the members of the Audit Committee are independent work.
Reporting to the Group Audit Committee by Group non-executive directors.
The members of the Committee are: Internal Audit is through formal reports four times during the year and through private meetings, as well as regular private Rob Rowley FCMA Chairman meetings between the Chairman of the Committee and the Keki Dadiseth FCA appointed 5 May 2005 Group-wide Internal Audit Director.
Additionally, the Chairman Kathleen ODonovan ACA of the Committee attended the Groups internal audit conference James Ross in September 2005.
Full biographical details of the members of the Audit Committee, The Audit Committee has a key oversight role in relation to the including their relevant experience, are set out on page 27. external auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, whose primary relationship is The Board has designated Rob Rowley as its Audit Committee with the Committee.
The Groups Auditor Independence Policy financial expert for Sarbanes-Oxley Act purposes: he also has ensures that the independence and objectivity of the external recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes of auditor is not impaired, and that the Group maintains a sufficient the Code.
choice of appropriately qualified audit firms.
The Committee continued to receive detailed presentations from For the year ended 31 December 2005, fees for audit services senior management throughout the year.
These presentations of 6.8 million were approved by the Committee.
All fees for were designed to keep members up to date and aware of the non-audit services were approved by the Committee, in accordance impact on the business of changes to international accounting with the Groups Auditor Independence Policy, prior to work standards and practices, including International Financial Reporting commencing.
The Audit Committee reviewed the non-audit Standards IFRS and European Embedded Value EEV.
services being provided to the Group by its external auditor at regular intervals in 2005.
During the year, fees for non-audit The Audit Committee met nine times during the year.
Additionally, services of 5.6 million were approved by the Audit Committee.
by invitation, the Chairman of the Board, Group Chief Executive, Fees for non-audit services amounted to 45 per cent of total fees Group Finance Director, Group Chief Risk Officer, Group paid to KPMG Audit Plc.
These fees primarily related to assurance Company Secretary, Heads of Internal Audit, Group Risk and services associated with the implementation of IFRS and EEV Group Compliance, as well as the external auditor, attended accounting requirements, Sarbanes-Oxley requirements and other some of the meetings.
regulatory changes, and also to due diligence work related to the The Audit Committee Chairman reported to the Board on matters acquisition of the Egg minority.
of particular significance after each Committee meeting.
The minutes At each meeting, the Committee received and reviewed a report of Committee meetings were circulated to all Board members.
on calls to the confidential reporting line, which is made available Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 29 Summary corporate governance report continued to employees to enable them to communicate confidentially on to consider candidates for appointment to the Board and to make matters of concern, and actions taken in response to these calls.
The recommendations to the Board in respect of those candidates.
Committee also considered whether any internal control implications The current Group Chief Executive is also closely involved in the arose from communications received.
No internal control work of the Committee and is invited to attend and contribute implications were raised from calls to the confidential helpline.
to meetings of the Committee.
The Committee, in consultation with the Board, evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and During the year, the Audit Committee undertook a formal review experience on the Board and makes recommendations regarding of its own effectiveness and the Committee is satisfied, based on appointments based on merit and against objective criteria and the the findings of this review, that it had been operating as an effective requirements of the Groups business.
In appropriate cases, search Audit Committee, meeting all applicable legal and regulatory consultants are used to identify suitable candidates.
Further reviews of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee will be undertaken annually.
Board Committees terms of reference The full terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Remuneration Committee report Nomination Committees are available on the Companys website Roberto Mendoza Chairman at www.
co. uk prudential-plc aboutpru Keki Dadiseth appointed 1 April 2005 corporategovernance boardcommittees Hard copies may be Michael Garrett obtained upon written request to the Company Secretary at the Bridget Macaskill Companys registered office.
Kathleen ODonovan until 22 September 2005 James Ross until 22 September 2005 Sarbanes-Oxley Act Rob Rowley until 22 September 2005 The Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 the Act was passed by the US Congress in July 2002 to establish new or enhanced standards Full biographical details of the members of the Remuneration for corporate accountability in the US.
As a result of the listing Committee, including their relevant experience, are set out on of its securities on the New York Stock Exchange, the Company page 27. must comply with the relevant provisions of the Act.
The Company The Remuneration Committee is comprised exclusively of has already adopted procedures to comply with all applicable independent non-executive directors of the Company.
While provisions of the Act.
the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are not members, Risk management and internal control they attend meetings unless they have a conflict of interest.
The Board has overall responsibility for the internal controls.
The The Remuneration Committee normally has scheduled meetings Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups at least three times a year and a number of additional meetings, system of internal control.
The focus on aligning the taking of as required, to review remuneration policy.
The Remuneration risk with the achievement of business objectives means that the Committee determines the remuneration packages of the control procedures and systems the Group has established are Chairman and executive directors.
During 2005, a total of designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to 11 meetings were held.
In framing its remuneration policy, meet business objectives and can only provide reasonable and the Committee has given full consideration to the provisions not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
The summary remuneration report The system of internal control includes financial, operational prepared by the Board is set out on pages 31 to 33.
In preparing and compliance controls and risk management.
the report, the Board has followed the provisions of the Code and The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The Groups internal control framework includes detailed procedures laid down in financial and actuarial procedure manuals.
Nomination Committee report The Group prepares an annual business plan with three-year Sir David Clementi Chairman projections.
Executive management and the Board receive Jonathan Bloomer until 5 May 2005 monthly reports on the financial position of the Group and actual Bridget Macaskill performance against plan, together with updated forecasts.
Kathleen ODonovan until 22 September 2005 James Ross from 22 September 2005 The Group Risk Framework requires that all of the Groups Rob Rowley businesses and functions establish processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Group.
The Nomination Committee now comprises exclusively independent non-executive directors and the Chairman, and meets as required 30 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Summary remuneration report This report summarises information about the remuneration Key principles of the remuneration policy of the Companys directors.
The full directors remuneration report The principles developed by the Remuneration Committee reflect contains further explanations about our policies and arrangements the relative importance of those elements that are fixed and those and is available in our Annual Report and on our website.
It has that are variable and related to performance.
been approved by the Board and complies with The Directors A high proportion of total remuneration will be delivered through Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. performance-related reward: The Remuneration Committee the total remuneration package for each executive director will The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are be set in relation to the relevant employment market: available on the Companys website.
A copy can also be obtained by contacting the Company Secretary.
The members of the a significant element of performance-related reward will be Remuneration Committee during 2005 are listed in the Summary provided in the form of shares: Corporate Governance Report.
performance for business unit executives will be measured at Remuneration policy both a business unit and Group level: and The aim of the Companys remuneration policy is to be able to recruit performance measures will include both absolute financial and retain the highest calibre executives.
To achieve this objective, measures and comparative measures as appropriate to provide Prudential must continue to use remuneration practices relevant to a clear alignment between the creation of shareholder value the different markets in which the Company does business around and reward.
The Remuneration Committee considers remuneration within the context of the UKs regulatory framework and shareholder Elements of the remuneration package views, and is guided by UK corporate governance standards.
Executive directors are provided with basic salary, annual bonuses and long-term incentive arrangements that are tailored to their Remuneration policy for executive directors respective roles and employment markets.
These elements are The Remuneration Committee recognises that a successful normally reviewed each year.
Basic salaries will be reviewed remuneration policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take with respect to the relevant market, taking into account total account of changes in the Companys business environment.
Annual bonus arrangements depend on financial and The elements of remuneration, the 2006 policy and details of individual performance while the long-term arrangements depend proposed new long-term incentive plans are described below on Group and, where relevant, business unit performance, with and also set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting 2006 a portion being share-based.
All current executive directors have that accompanies this report.
The remuneration policy that contracts that require the Company to provide one years notice.
applied in 2005 is also set out below.
Total Total Salary Other emoluments emoluments fees Bonus payments Benefits 2005 2004 Directors remuneration for 2005 000 000 000 000 000 000 Chairman Sir David Clementi 450 29 479 460 Executive directors Jonathan Bloomer until 5 May 2005 279 150 26 455 1,120 Philip Broadley 500 459 41 1,000 788 Clark Manning 467 1,263 21 1,751 1,486 Michael McLintock 320 1,515 43 1,878 1,774 # Mark Norbom 500 370 90 214 1,174 1,342 Mark Tucker from 6 May 2005 509 503 118 1,130 Mark Wood 464 358 43 865 966 Total executive directors 3,039 4,618 90 506 8,253 7,476 Non-executive directors Bart Becht until 31 August 2004 33 Keki Dadiseth from 1 April 2005 37 37 Michael Garrett from 1 September 2004 50 50 17 Bridget Macaskill 50 50 50 Roberto Mendoza 135 135 135 Kathleen ODonovan 60 60 55 James Ross from 6 May 2004 60 60 36 Rob Rowley 90 90 90 Sandy Stewart until 6 May 2004 49 Total non-executive directors 482 482 465 Overall total 3,971 4,618 90 535 9,214 8,401 Benefits include cash allowances for cars.
Mark Wood resigned as a director with effect from 17 October 2005 and remained an employee of the Company until 1 February 2006.
Roberto Mendozas fees include fees from Egg plc.
# Includes allowances in respect of his expatriate status.
Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 31 Summary remuneration report continued Non-executive directors do not have service contracts: they The new Group Performance Share Plan rewards the achievement receive fees, are not eligible for any incentive plans and are not of TSR out-performance of an index comprised of peer group members of any company pension scheme.
The comparator companies represent the international industry in which Prudential operates: Aegon: Allianz: Aviva: Axa: Basic salary Friends Provident: Generali: ING: Legal & General: Manulife and The basic salaries of the executive directors at 1 January 2006 are: Old Mutual.
The Remuneration Committee will keep the group Philip Broadley 530,000 per annum of companies under review.
Clark Manning US$925,000 per annum Awards will vest on the basis of the schedule set out below: Michael McLintock 320,000 per annum Mark Norbom 515,000 per annum TSR relative to the Index at the end of the third year Percentage of award that vests Nick Prettejohn 575,000 per annum Mark Tucker 840,000 per annum Less than Index return Nil Index performance 25% Annual incentive plans Index performance x 110% 75% Annual incentive payouts for executive directors depend on Index performance x 120% 100% performance and are paid in cash or shares as indicated below.
Annual bonuses for 2006 will be based on a combination of Group Vesting between each performance point is on a straight-line sliding scale basis.
and business unit financial measures and the individual strategic The Remuneration Committee must also be satisfied that the targets set for each director.
quality of the underlying financial performance justifies the level of award delivered at the end of the performance period, and The levels of award as a percentage of salary are as follows: would adjust awards accordingly at its discretion.
2005 2006 2006 business unit long-term incentive plans Target Maximum Target Maximum Shareholder approval is being sought for the introduction of %%%% a Business Unit Performance Plan.
This plan provides a common Jonathan Bloomer 50 110 na na framework under which awards will be made to the Chief Philip Broadley 50 110 50 110 Executives of Prudential UK & Europe, JNL and Prudential Clark Manning 100 120 100 120 Corporation Asia to replace the existing incentive plans for these Michael McLintock 300 500 300 500 businesses.
Michael McLintock will receive 2006 awards under Mark Norbom 50 110 50 110 the M&G Chief Executive Long-term Incentive Plan as described Nick Prettejohn na na 50 110 in the section on 2005 long-term incentive plans below.
Mark Tucker 50 110 75 125 The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director will Mark Wood 50 110 na na not participate in this plan.
The portion of the award for performance above target is made in the form of Half of the awards will be denominated and delivered in shares.
Prudential shares deferred for three years, except for Clark Mannings 2005 annual incentive plan.
Deferred share award values are included in the figures in the The remaining half will be paid in cash.
Participants will be entitled Remuneration table.
to receive the value of reinvested dividends over the performance Clark Manning also receives a percentage share of a Jackson National Life JNL period for those shares that vest.
bonus pool geared to the profits of JNL.
The performance condition for the awards under the Business Unit Long-term incentive plans Performance Plan will be based on growth in Shareholder Capital All our current and proposed long-term incentive plans for Value, which is defined as shareholders capital and reserves on executive directors have three-year performance periods and a European Embedded Value EEV basis.
are designed to drive the underlying financial performance of the business.
This measure has been chosen on the basis that it is transparent and reflects the creation of value for shareholders.
Shareholder Under the 2006 policy, at least half of any shares that vest Capital Value will be based on the figure disclosed in the Annual from long-term incentive plans must be held until the guideline Report, on a constant exchange rate basis for the relevant business shareholdings set out on page 33 have been reached.
and adjusted for capital injections and dividends in the period.
2006 long-term incentive award policy The growth parameters for the awards will be relevant to each 2006 Group Performance Share Plan region.
For 2006, awards under the Business Unit Performance Shareholder approval is being sought for the introduction of a new Plan, the proposed targets are as follows: Group Performance Share Plan to replace the Restricted Share Plan RSP which expires this year.
Growth in shareholder capital value p. a.
The proposed new plan, in which all executive directors would be Percentage of award that vests UK JNL Asia eligible to participate, will deliver shares subject to performance 0% 8% 8% 15% measured over three years.
Participants will be entitled to receive 30% 8% 8% 15% the value of reinvested dividends over the performance period for those shares that vest.
75% 11% 10% 22.5% 100% 14% 12% 30% Vesting between each performance point is on a straight-line sliding scale basis.
32 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 The Remuneration Committee must also be satisfied that the Business-specific long-term incentive plans up to and quality of the underlying financial performance justifies the level including 2005 of award delivered at the end of the performance period, and Clark Manning would adjust awards accordingly at its discretion.
Clark Manning participated in a cash-based long-term plan that rewards the growth in appraisal value of JNL.
All awards are 2006 long-term incentive awards adjusted by the Prudential plc share price change over the The proposed awards for 2006 under the new schemes are performance period.
For 2005 the initial award value, depending set out below.
on performance, is US$864,240 adjusted by the share price change, with a maximum of three times the initial award value.
Group Performance Business Unit Share Plan Performance Plan Michael McLintock Michael McLintock participated in the M&G Chief Executive Group Chief Executive 200% na Long-Term Incentive Plan that provides a cash reward through Group Finance Director 160% na three-year phantom M&G share awards and phantom M&G share Chief Executive, Prudential Corporation Asia 140% 140% options based on the profits of M&G and M&G fund performance.
Chief Executive, JNL 230% 230% For 2005 the face value of the phantom share award is 225,000 Chief Executive, M&G 100% c. 200% and the phantom option award has a face value of 367,800.
Chief Executive, Prudential UK & Europe 130% 130% Mark Norbom In the case of the Chief Executive M&G, this is the M&G Chief Executive LTIP.
Mark Norbom participated in the 2005 Asian Long-Term Estimated value.
Incentive Plan which is a cash-based plan that rewards the 2006 shareholding guidelines growth in value of our Asian operations with a maximum A guideline is being introduced from 2006 that executive directors award of 150 per cent of salary.
should hold a substantial number of shares according to the Mark Wood following schedule.
Mark Wood participated in a cash-based long-term plan that Group Chief Executive 2 x basic salary rewards the growth in appraisal value of Prudential UK & Europe Chief Executive M&G 2 x basic salary with a maximum award of 100 per cent of salary.
Other executive directors 1 x basic salary Performance graph Shares earned and deferred under the annual incentive plan are The line graph below represents the comparative TSR included in the guideline.
of the Company during the five years from 1 January 2001 to 31 December 2005.
In producing this graph, it has been 2005 long-term incentive awards assumed that all dividends paid have been reinvested.
RSP up to and including 2005 The RSP rewards the achievement of Prudentials TSR relative Prudential TSR v FTSE 100 Total Returns Index TRI to other companies in the FTSE 100 at the beginning of each performance period.
RSP awards made before 2004 vested for Total shareholder return % performance above sixtieth percentile.
For 2004 and 2005 no 120 award is made if the Companys TSR performance is ranked below 100 fiftieth percentile.
For any awards to vest, the Remuneration Committee must also be satisfied with the Companys underlying 80 financial performance over the performance period.
60 Maximum RSP award as % of salary 40 awarded for TSR ranking at 20th percentile or above 20 Jonathan Bloomer 200 0 Philip Broadley 160 Dec 00 Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 Clark Manning 160 Prudential TSR Michael McLintock 80 FTSE 100 TRI Mark Norbom 160 Mark Wood 160 This graph shows the Companys TSR performance against the Left the Company 5 May 2005.
FTSE 100 index, which is a broad equity market index of UK Left the Company 1 February 2006. companies of comparable size and complexity to Prudential.
Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 33 Summary directors report Principal activity and business review Directors Prudential plc is the Group holding company and the principal A list of the present directors is set out on pages 26 and 27. activity of its subsidiary undertakings is the provision of financial Keki Dadiseth, Mark Tucker and Nick Prettejohn were appointed services in the UK, the US and Asia.
The Groups businesses and as directors on 1 April 2005, 6 May 2005 and 1 January 2006 likely future developments are reviewed in the Chairmans respectively.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, statement on pages 2 and 3, the Group Chief Executives review Mark Tucker and Nick Prettejohn will retire and offer themselves on pages 4 to 7, the business review on pages 14 and 15 and the for election at the Annual General Meeting on 18 May 2006. financial review on pages 16 to 23, which contain details of the Jonathan Bloomer and Mark Wood resigned as directors of the development of the businesses of the Group during the financial Company on 5 May 2005 and 17 October 2005 respectively.
year and of the Groups position at the end of it.
Sir David Clementi, Michael McLintock, Mark Norbom and Kathleen ODonovan will retire by rotation at the Annual General In December 2005, the Company announced its intention to Meeting and offer themselves for re-election.
acquire the minority interest in Egg plc representing approximately 21.7 per cent of the existing issued share capital of Egg.
Under the Annual General Meeting terms of the offer, Egg shareholders would receive 0.2237 new The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on 18 May ordinary shares in the Company for each Egg share.
In January 2006 at The Auditorium, The Mermaid Conference Centre, 2006, the Company announced that it had received acceptances Puddle Dock, Blackfriars, London EC4V 3DB at 11.00am.
in respect of 80.3 per cent of the shares that it did not already own Summary Financial Statement and auditors report and that it would extend the offer until further notice.
In February The auditors report on the Groups 2005 full Annual Report and 2006, the Board of Egg announced the delisting of Egg shares.
Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005 was unqualified Full acceptance of the offer would result in the issue of 41 million and did not include a statement under Section 237 2 inadequate new ordinary shares in the Company representing 1.7 per cent accounting records or returns not agreeing with records and of its issued ordinary share capital as enlarged by this acquisition.
returns or Section 237 3 failure to obtain necessary information Dividends and explanations of the Companies Act 1985.
The directors recommend that the shareholders declare a final The summary financial statement on pages 39 to 45 and the dividend for 2005 of 11.02 pence per share payable on 26 May summary European Embedded Value basis supplementary 2006 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on information on pages 36 to 38 were approved by the Board 24 March 2006.
The interim dividend for 2005 was 5.3 pence of directors on 15 March 2006 and signed on its behalf by per share.
The total dividend for the year, including the interim Sir David Clementi, Mark Tucker and Philip Broadley.
dividend and the recommended final dividend, amounts to 16.32 pence per share compared with 15.84 pence per share for 2004.
The total cost of dividends in respect of 2005 was 393 million.
34 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Independent auditors statements Statement of the independent auditor to the members of Statement of the independent auditor to Prudential plc Prudential plc pursuant to Section 251 of the Companies We have examined the summary European Embedded Value EEV Act 1985 basis supplementary information set out on pages 36 to 38.
We have examined the Summary Financial Statement set out This statement is made solely to the Company in accordance on pages 39 to 45. with our terms of engagement.
Our work has been undertaken This statement is made solely to the Companys members, as a so that we might state to the Company those matters we have body, in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985. been engaged to state in this statement and for no other purpose.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Companys members those matters we are required to state to responsibility to anyone other than the Company for our work, for them in such a statement and for no other purpose.
To the fullest this statement, or for the opinions we have formed.
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members The directors have accepted responsibility for preparing the as a body, for our work, for this statement, or for the opinions we summary EEV basis supplementary information within the have formed.
Under the terms of our engagement, Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor our responsibility is to report to the Company our opinion on the The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review and consistency of the summary EEV basis supplementary information Summary Financial Statement Summarised Annual Report in with the full EEV basis supplementary information set out in the accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility Groups Annual Report and prepared in accordance with the is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary European Embedded Value principles issued in May 2004 by the Financial Statement set out on pages 39 to 45 of the Summarised CFO Forum as supplemented by the Additional Guidance on Annual Report with the full annual financial statements, directors European Embedded Value Disclosures issued in October 2005 report and the directors remuneration report and its compliance together the EEV principles and on its compliance with Section 251 with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the Companies of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder, Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
as if those requirements were to apply.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and consider the implications for our report if we become Review and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent mis-statements or material inconsistencies aware of any apparent mis-statements or material inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statement.
with the summary EEV basis supplementary information.
Basis of opinion Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 The We conducted our work having regard to Bulletin 1999 6 Auditors Statement on the Summary Financial Statement issued by The Auditors Statement on the Summary Financial Statement the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Our issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United report on the Groups full annual financial statements describes the Kingdom.
Our report on the Groups full EEV basis supplementary basis of our audit opinion on those financial statements.
information describes the basis of our audit opinion on that supplementary information.
Opinion In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement set out on pages Opinion 39 to 45 is consistent with the full annual financial statements, In our opinion the summary EEV basis supplementary information directors report and directors remuneration report of Prudential set out on pages 36 to 38 is consistent with the full EEV basis plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 and complies with the supplementary information in the Groups Annual Report for the applicable requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 year ended 31 December 2005 and complies with the applicable and the regulations made thereunder.
requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder, as if those requirements were to apply.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants KPMG Audit Plc London Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor London 15 March 2006 15 March 2006 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 35 European Embedded Value EEV basis summary results Year ended 31 December 2005 Summarised consolidated income statement 2005 2004 m m Operating profit from continuing operations based on longer-term investment returns UK insurance operations 426 486 M&G 163 136 Egg 44 61 UK operations 633 683 US operations 755 368 Asian operations 568 464 Other income and expenditure 244 241 Operating profit from continuing operations based on longer-term investment returns 1,712 1,274 Goodwill impairment charge 120 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 1,001 570 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 47 12 Effect of changes in economic assumptions and time value of cost of options and guarantees 302 48 Profit from continuing operations before tax including actual investment returns 2,244 1,784 Tax 653 553 Profit from continuing operations for the financial year after tax before minority interests 1,591 1,231 Discontinued operations net of tax 3 94 Total profit for the year 1,594 1,137 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 1,582 1,138 Minority interests 12 1 Total profit for the year 1,594 1,137 Earnings per share 2005 2004 Continuing operations From operating profit, based on longer-term investment returns, after related tax and minority interests of 1,339m 2004: 916m 56.6p 43.2p Based on profit from continuing operations after minority interests of 1,579m 2004: 1,205m 66.8p 56.8p Discontinued operations Based on profit loss from discontinued operations after minority interests of 3m 2004: 67 m 0.1p 3.1 p Total based on total profit for the financial year after minority interests of 1,582m 2004: 1,138m 66.9p 53.7p Average number of shares millions 2,365 2,121 36 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 European Embedded Value EEV basis movement in shareholders capital and reserves and balance sheet Year ended 31 December 2005 Movement in shareholders capital and reserves excluding minority interests 2005 2004 m m Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company 1,582 1,138 Items taken directly to equity: Cumulative effect of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4, net of applicable taxes, at 1 January 2005 25 Unrealised valuation movement on securities classified as available-for-sale at 1 January 2005 1 Movement on cash flow hedges 4 Exchange movements 377 239 Related tax 65 1 Proceeds from Rights Issue, net of expenses 1,021 Other new share capital subscribed 55 119 Dividends 380 323 Reserve movements in respect of share-based payments 15 10 Treasury shares: Movement in own shares in respect of share-based payment plans 0 2 Movement on Prudential plc shares purchased by unit trusts consolidated under IFRS 3 14 Net increase in shareholders capital and reserves 1,687 1,737 Shareholders capital and reserves, at beginning of year excluding minority interests : As previously reported on the Achieved Profits basis 8,596 7,005 Adjustments on implementation of statutory IFRS excluding IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 165 15 Adjustments on implementation of European Embedded Value EEV methodology 147 143 As restated on EEV basis 8,614 6,877 Shareholders capital and reserves at end of year excluding minority interests 10,301 8,614 Summarised consolidated balance sheet 31 December 2005 2005 2004 m m Total assets less liabilities, excluding insurance funds 174,258 148,682 Less insurance funds: Policyholder liabilities net of reinsurers share and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 169,064 144,193 Less shareholders accrued interest in the long-term business 5,107 4,125 163,957 140,068 Total net assets 10,301 8,614 Share capital 119 119 Share premium 1,564 1,558 Statutory basis shareholders reserves following adoption of IFRS 3,511 2,812 Additional EEV basis retained profit 5,107 4,125 Shareholders capital and reserves excluding minority interests 10,301 8,614 Including liabilities in respect of insurance products classified as investment contracts under IFRS 4.
The EEV basis information on pages 36 to 38 was approved by the Board of Directors on 15 March 2006.
Sir David Clementi Mark Tucker Chairman Group Chief Executive Philip Broadley Group Finance Director Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 37 European Embedded Value EEV basis operating profit from continuing operations based on longer-term investment returns Year ended 31 December 2005 Results analysis by business area 2005 2004 m m UK operations New business 243 241 Business in force 183 245 Long-term business 426 486 M&G 163 136 Egg 44 61 Total 633 683 US operations New business 211 145 Business in force 530 237 Long-term business 741 382 Broker-dealer and fund management 24 15 Curian 10 29 Total 755 368 Asian operations New business 413 355 Business in force 163 105 Long-term business 576 460 Fund management 12 19 Development expenses 20 15 Total 568 464 Other income and expenditure Investment return and other income 42 0 Interest payable on core structural borrowings 175 154 Corporate expenditure: Group Head Office 70 51 Asia Regional Head Office 30 29 Charge for share-based payments for Prudential schemes 11 7 Total 244 241 Operating profit from continuing operations based on longer-term investment returns 1,712 1,274 Analysed as profits losses from: New business 867 741 Business in force 876 587 Long-term business 1,743 1,328 Asia development expenses 20 15 Other operating results 11 39 Total 1,712 1,274 EEV basis operating profit from continuing operations based on longer-term investment returns excludes goodwill impairment charges, short-term fluctuations in investment returns, the shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes, the effect of changes in economic assumptions and changes in the time value of cost of options and guarantees caused by economic factors.
The amounts for these items are included in total EEV profit.
The directors believe that operating profit, as adjusted for these items, better reflects underlying performance.
Profit on ordinary activities and basic earnings per share include these items together with actual investment returns.
38 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Insurance and investment products new business Year ended 31 December 2005 Insurance products and investment products Insurance products Investment products Gross premiums Gross inflows Total 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 m m m m m m UK operations 7,276 6,538 7,916 5,845 15,192 12,383 US operations 5,023 4,420 414 418 5,437 4,838 Asian operations 1,485 1,172 18,457 19,068 19,942 20,240 Group total 13,784 12,130 26,787 25,331 40,571 37,461 Insurance products new business premiums and contributions Annual Single Regular premium equivalents 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 m m m m m m UK insurance operations Direct to customer Individual annuities 720 630 72 63 Individual pensions and life 29 19 11 10 14 12 Department of Work and Pensions rebate business 244 265 24 27 Total 993 914 11 10 110 102 Business to business Corporate pensions 242 153 146 137 170 152 Individual annuities 212 229 21 23 Bulk annuities 511 474 51 47 Total 965 856 146 137 242 222 Intermediated distribution Life 1,112 1,001 6 5 118 105 Individual annuities 995 1,180 100 118 Individual and corporate pensions 108 189 25 25 36 44 Department of Work and Pensions rebate business 83 89 8 9 Total 2,298 2,459 31 30 262 276 Partnerships Life 814 790 3 2 84 81 Individual and bulk annuities 1,814 1,249 182 125 Total 2,628 2,039 3 2 266 206 Europe Life 201 89 2 20 11 Total UK insurance operations 7,085 6,357 191 181 900 817 US operations Fixed annuities 788 1,130 79 113 Fixed index annuities 616 429 62 43 Variable annuities 2,605 1,981 261 198 Life 11 16 14 12 15 14 Guaranteed investment contracts 355 180 35 18 GIC Medium Term Notes 634 672 63 67 Total US operations 5,009 4,408 14 12 515 453 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 39 Insurance and investment products new business continued Year ended 31 December 2005 Annual Single Regular premium equivalents 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 m m m m m m Asian operations China 17 9 23 16 25 17 Hong Kong 289 255 83 78 112 103 India Groups 26% interest 4 5 57 33 57 33 Indonesia 42 38 42 28 46 32 Japan 30 17 4 7 7 9 Korea 29 36 132 60 135 64 Malaysia 9 7 66 61 67 62 Singapore 284 199 58 47 86 67 Taiwan 124 88 150 143 162 151 Other 9 8 33 37 34 38 Total Asian operations 837 662 648 510 731 576 Group total 12,931 11,427 853 703 2,146 1,846 Annual premium and contribution equivalents are calculated as the aggregate of regular new business amounts and one-tenth of single new business amounts.
Investment products funds under management Market Gross and other 1 Jan 2005 inflows Redemptions movements 31 Dec 2005 m m m m m UK operations 28,705 7,916 4,054 3,629 36,196 US operations 550 414 116 125 973 Asian operations 8,538 18,457 17,130 267 10,132 Group total 37,793 26,787 21,300 4,021 47,301 The format of the tables shown above is consistent with the distinction between insurance and investment products as applied for previous financial reporting periods.
With the exception of some US institutional business, products categorised as insurance refer to those classified as contracts of long-term insurance business for regulatory reporting purposes, i. e. falling within one of the classes of insurance specified in part II of Schedule 1 to the Regulated Activities Order under FSA regulations.
The details shown above for insurance products include contributions for contracts that are classified under IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts as not containing significant insurance risk.
These products are described as investment contracts or other financial instruments under IFRS.
Contracts included in this category are primarily certain unit-linked and similar contracts written in UK insurance operations, and guaranteed investment contracts and similar funding agreements written in US operations.
UK and Asian investment products referred to in the tables above are unit trusts, mutual funds and similar types of retail fund management arrangements.
US investment products relate to assets under administration in Curian.
These are unrelated to insurance products that are classified as investment contracts under IFRS 4, as described above, although similar IFRS recognition principles apply to the acquisition costs and fees attaching to this type of business.
40 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 IFRS basis summary results Year ended 31 December 2005 Consolidated income statement 2005 2004 m m Gross premiums earned 15,225 16,408 Outward reinsurance premiums 197 256 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 15,028 16,152 Investment income 24,013 15,750 Other income 2,084 2,002 Total revenue, net of reinsurance 41,125 33,904 Benefits and claims and movement in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 33,100 26,593 Acquisition costs and other operating expenditure 5,552 5,563 Finance costs: interest on core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations 208 187 Goodwill impairment charge 120 Total charges 38,980 32,343 Profit before tax 2,145 1,561 Tax attributable to policyholders returns 1,147 711 Profit before tax attributable to shareholders 998 850 Tax expense 1,388 951 Less: tax attributable to policyholders returns 1,147 711 Tax attributable to shareholders profits 241 240 Profit from continuing operations after tax 757 610 Discontinued operations net of tax 3 94 Profit for the year 760 516 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 748 517 Minority interests 12 1 Profit for the year 760 516 Profit before tax represents income net of post-tax transfers to unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, before tax attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, unit-linked policies and shareholders profits.
Earnings per share 2005 2004 Basic based on 2,365m and 2,121m shares respectively : Based on profit from continuing operations attributable to the equity holders of the Company 31.5p 27.5p Based on profit loss from discontinued operations attributable to the equity holders of the Company 0.1p 3.1 p 31.6p 24.4p Diluted based on 2,369m and 2,124m shares respectively : Based on profit from continuing operations attributable to the equity holders of the Company 31.5p 27.5p Based on profit loss from discontinued operations attributable to the equity holders of the Company 0.1p 3.1 p 31.6p 24.4p Dividends 2005 2004 m m Dividends declared and paid in reporting period Parent Company: Interim dividend 2005: 5.30p, 2004: 5.19p per share 126 109 Final dividend for prior period 2004: 10.65p, 2003: 10.29p per share 252 214 Subsidiary company payment to minority interests 2 Total 380 323 Parent Company dividends relating to reporting period: Interim dividend 2005: 5.30p, 2004: 5.19p per share 126 109 Final dividend 2005: 11.02p, 2004: 10.65p per share 267 252 Total 393 361 A final dividend of 11.02 pence per share was proposed on 15 March 2006.
This dividend will be paid on 26 May 2006 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 24 March 2006.
This final dividend will absorb an estimated 267 million of shareholders funds.
A scrip dividend alternative will be offered to shareholders.
Emoluments The total emoluments of the directors were 9,214,000 2004: 8,401,000.
Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 41 IFRS basis statement of changes in equity Statement of changes in equity 2005 Availablefor-sale Share Share Retained Translation securities Hedging Shareholders Minority Total capital premium earnings reserve reserve reserve equity interests equity m m m m m m m m m Reserves Profit for the year 748 748 12 760 Items recognised directly in equity: Exchange movements 268 268 268 Movement on cash flow hedges 4 4 1 3 Unrealised valuation movements on securities classified as available-for-sale from 1 January 2005: Unrealised holding losses arising during the year 773 773 773 Less reclassification adjustment for losses included in the income statement 22 22 22 Unrealised investment losses, net 751 751 751 Related change in amortisation of deferred income and acquisition costs 307 307 307 Related tax 65 152 1 218 218 Total items recognised directly in equity 333 292 3 38 1 39 Total income and expense for the year 748 333 292 3 786 13 799 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting policies on adoption of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4, net of applicable taxes at 1 January 2005 2 173 397 226 3 223 Dividends 380 380 380 Reserve movements in respect of share-based payments 15 15 1 14 Change in minority interests arising principally from purchase and sale of venture investment companies and property partnerships of the PAC with-profits fund 26 26 Share capital and share premium New share capital subscribed 055 55 55 Transfer to retained earnings in respect of shares issued in lieu of cash dividends 51 51 0 0 Treasury shares Movement in own shares in respect of share-based payment plans 000 Movement on Prudential plc shares purchased by unit trusts consolidated under IFRS 333 Net increase in equity 6 264 333 105 3 705 35 740 At beginning of year: As previously reported under UK GAAP 119 1,558 2,604 4,281 71 4,352 Changes arising from adoption of IFRS 368 160 208 66 274 As restated under IFRS 119 1,558 2,972 160 4,489 137 4,626 At end of year 119 1,564 3,236 173 105 3 5,194 172 5,366 42 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 2004 Share Share Retained  Minority Total capital premium earnings reserve equity interests equity m m m m m m m Reserves Profit for the year 517 517 1 516 Items recognised directly in equity: Exchange movements 172 172 172 Related tax 12 12 12 Total items recognised directly in equity 160 160 160 Total income and expense for the year 517 160 357 1 356 Dividends 323 323 323 Reserve movements in respect of share-based payments 10 10 10 Change in minority interests arising principally from purchase and sale of venture investment companies and property partnerships of the PAC with-profits fund 11 Share capital and share premium Proceeds from Rights Issue, net of expenses 17 1,004 1,021 1,021 Other new share capital subscribed 2 117 119 119 Transfer to retained earnings in respect of shares issued in lieu of cash dividends 116 116 0 0 Treasury shares Movement in own shares in respect of share-based payment plans 2 2 2 Movement on Prudential plc shares purchased by unit trusts consolidated under IFRS 14 14 14 Net increase in equity 19 1,005 332 160 1,196 0 1,196 At beginning of year: As previously reported under UK GAAP 100 553 2,587 3,240 107 3,347 Changes arising from adoption of IFRS 53 53 30 83 As restated under IFRS 100 553 2,640 3,293 137 3,430 At end of year 119 1,558 2,972 160 4,489 137 4,626 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 43 IFRS basis consolidated balance sheet 31 December 2005 Consolidated balance sheet 2005 2004 m m Assets Goodwill: Attributable to PAC with-profits fund 607 784 Attributable to shareholders 1,341 1,461 Total 1,948 2,245 Other intangible assets: PAC with-profits fund 35 798 Other operations 2,405 2,244 Total 2,440 3,042 Other non-investment and non-cash assets: Property, plant and equipment 910 967 Reinsurers share of policyholder liabilities 1,278 1,018 Deferred tax assets 755 827 Current tax recoverable 231 159 Accrued investment income 1,791 1,733 Other debtors 1,318 1,188 Total 6,283 5,892 Investments of long-term business, banking and other operations: Investment properties 13,180 13,303 Investments accounted for using the equity method 5 5 Financial investments: Loans and receivables 13,245 12,430 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 71,985 54,466 Debt securities 82,471 76,374 Other investments 3,879 2,537 Deposits 7,627 5,271 Total investments 192,392 164,386 Held for sale assets 728 100 Cash and cash equivalents 3,586 4,341 Total assets 207,377 180,006 44 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 2005 2004 m m Equity and liabilities Equity Shareholders equity 5,194 4,489 Minority interests 172 137 Total equity 5,366 4,626 Liabilities Banking customer accounts 5,830 6,607 Policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds: Insurance contract liabilities 120,436 Investment contract liabilities with discretionary participation features 26,523 Investment contract liabilities without discretionary participation features 12,026 Technical provisions in respect of non-linked business 104,996 Technical provisions for linked liabilities 24,066 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds: Reflecting application of realistic basis provisions for UK regulated with-profits funds 11,357 Reflecting previous UK GAAP basis of provisioning 16,149 Total policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 170,342 145,211 Core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations: Subordinated debt other than Egg 1,646 1,429 Other 1,093 1,368 2,739 2,797 Egg subordinated debt 452 451 Total 3,191 3,248 Other borrowings: Operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-financed operations 6,432 6,421 Borrowings attributable to with-profits funds 1,898 2,137 Other non-insurance liabilities: Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 4,529 3,819 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 965 808 Current tax liabilities 962 1,018 Deferred tax liabilities 2,991 2,279 Accruals and deferred income 506 655 Other creditors 1,478 996 Provisions 972 1,006 Other liabilities 1,769 1,175 Held for sale liabilities 146 Total 14,318 11,756 Total liabilities 202,011 175,380 Total equity and liabilities 207,377 180,006 The presentation of insurance and investment contract liabilities to policyholders reflects the adoption of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 at 1 January 2005.
The comparative liabilities for 2004 reflect the previous UK GAAP basis.
The financial statements on pages 39 to 45 were approved by the Board of Directors on 15 March 2006.
Sir David Clementi Mark Tucker Chairman Group Chief Executive Philip Broadley Group Finance Director Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 45 Supplementary IFRS basis results operating profit from continuing operations Year ended 31 December 2005 Results analysis by business area Based on pro forma IFRS basis Based on statutory IFRS results basis results note i note i 2005 2004 2004 m m m UK operations UK insurance operations 400 305 296 M&G 163 136 136 Egg 44 61 61 Total 607 502 493 US operations Jackson National Life 348 296 296 Broker-dealer and fund management including Curian losses of 10m 2004: 29m 14 14 14 Total 362 282 282 Asian operations Long-term business 195 117 117 Fund management 12 19 19 Development expenses 20 15 15 Total 187 121 121 Other income and expenditure Investment return and other income 87 44 44 Interest payable on core structural borrowings 175 154 154 Corporate expenditure: Group Head Office 70 51 51 Asia Regional Head Office 30 29 29 Charge for share-based payments for Prudential Schemes 11 7 7 Total 199 197 197 Operating profit from continuing operations based on longer-term investment returns note ii 957 708 699 Goodwill impairment charge note iii 120 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business 211 149 293 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 50 7 7 Profit from continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders including actual investment returns 998 850 985 Notes i Basis of preparation Except in respect of three IFRS standards, the 2005 and 2004 statutory IFRS basis results in the table above have been prepared consistently.
However, as permitted by the IFRS transition rules, and consistent with the approach of groups with significant banking operations where retrospective application is complex and onerous, the results include the effects of the adoption of the standards IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 from 1 January 2005 rather than 1 January 2004.
Pro forma basis comparative results for 2004, as if these standards had been applied by the Groups insurance operations from 1 January 2004, have been provided as additional information.
The pro forma results for 2004 are not audited.
The principal area of inconsistency between the bases of measurement applied in 2004 and 2005 as it affects profits relates to the valuation of derivatives of Jackson National Life JNL.
The value movements on these derivatives are recorded in the income statement for 2005.
In the analysis shown above the movements are included in shortterm fluctuations in investment returns.
For 2004, the derivatives were recorded at amortised cost so value movements do not feature in the statutory basis results.
Other smaller valuation differences for investment contracts measured under IAS 39 also slightly affect the comparison of operating profits.
ii Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns is a supplemental measure of results.
For the purposes of measuring operating profit, investment returns on shareholder-financed business are based on expected longer-term rates of return.
The expected longer-term rates of return are intended to reflect historical real rates of return and, where appropriate, current inflation expectations adjusted for consensus economic and investment forecasts.
The significant operations that require adjustment for the difference between actual and longer-term investment returns are JNL and certain Asian operations.
The amounts included in operating results for long-term capital returns for debt securities comprise two components.
These are a risk margin reserve based charge for expected defaults, which is determined by reference to the credit quality of the portfolio, and amortisation of interest related gains and losses for operating results based on longer-term results to the date when sold bonds would otherwise have matured.
iii Goodwill impairment charge The charge for goodwill impairment of 120 million relates to the Japan life business.
46 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Basis of financial reporting International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS basis contract.
Using prudent best estimate assumptions of the main reporting elements of future income and expenditure investment return, Previously, the Groups primary financial statements were prepared claims, lapses, surrenders and administration expenses the total using the modified statutory basis of reporting in compliance with profit expected to be earned from the contract can be estimated the Companies Act requirements and the revised Statement of at the time of its sale.
The total profit expected to be earned is then Recommended Practice issued by the Association of British Insurers allocated to individual financial years by application of a discount in November 2003.
The European Union EU requires that all rate, which allows for both the time value of money and the risk listed European groups prepare their 2005 financial statements in associated with the future shareholder cash flows.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Provided that the actual outcome is in line with the original adopted by the EU.
These statements are set out on pages 39 to 45. assumptions, profits will be earned in each accounting period as the As permitted by the International Accounting Standards Board, the discount rate unwinds.
The balance of profit not allocated to future Group has chosen to adopt all IFRS standards from 1 January 2004 years is recognised in the year of sale and is known as the profit other than IAS 32, Financial instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, from new business.
The unwind of the discount rate and variances IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, and between actual and assumed experience during the remainder IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts which were adopted from 1 January 2005. of the contract period produce the profit on business in force.
However, mindful of the impact on the Groups insurance operations, The EEV basis is designed to report profit which reflects business particularly Jackson National Life JNL in the US, the Group has performance during the year under review, particularly new business analysed the effect of adopting these standards for those businesses sales and fluctuations between actual and assumed experience.
as if they had been applied in 2004, as set out on page 46.
The Group EEV results also incorporate the effect of the discretionary The two areas of change that are of particular relevance to Prudentials change to the basis of determining longer-term investment returns results are: included in operating profits and IFRS changes for pension scheme Altered valuation bases for JNL derivatives and debt securities: and accounting as described above.
recognition of the shareholders share of deficits on defined The additional profit recognised using the EEV profits basis is benefit pension schemes in shareholders equity.
represented by the shareholders accrued interest in the long-term business and, when combined with shareholders funds reported on In preparing its IFRS basis results, the Group has chosen to continue to the IFRS basis, provides an improved measure of total shareholders provide supplementary analysis of the profit before shareholder tax so funds of the Group.
as to distinguish operating results based on longer-term investment returns, actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension The use of the EEV basis does not alter either the cash surpluses schemes, and goodwill impairment charges.
The Group has also which are released to shareholders funds from the long-term made a discretionary change of accounting policy at the same time funds, which continue to be determined by the directors following as the adoption of IFRS standards.
The change principally affects statutory actuarial valuations of the funds, or amounts available for the determination of longer-term returns for JNL that are credited to dividend payments for shareholders.
Total profit before tax is unaffected by this change.
Previously, the Group has reported supplementary information on Total profit before tax now includes value movements on derivatives the achieved profits basis.
The adoption of the EEV basis reporting that JNL uses for economic hedging together with actuarial and in place of achieved profits basis reporting, reflects developments other gains and losses on the Groups defined benefit pension through the CFO Forum to achieve a better level of consistency, schemes.
As a result, total profit before tax is expected to be more an improved embedded value methodology, and is applied by the volatile.
In addition, IFRS basis shareholders equity will be more major European insurance companies in their financial reporting.
volatile from period to period because of market value movements The main impact of the change from the achieved profits basis to on debt securities of JNL which are classified as available-for-sale.
the EEV basis on the results arises from the effects of changes to The adoption of IFRS does not have a significant impact on the the assumed level of locked-in capital allocated to each business, business or the underlying financial position.
the adoption of product specific risk discount rates, and an explicit valuation of the time value of options and guarantees.
The EEV results European Embedded Value EEV basis reporting also include the value of future profits from fund management and Life insurance products are, by their nature, long-term and the service operations that support the long-term business.
In most profit on this business is generated over a significant number of other respects the approach that Prudential used for its achieved years.
To reflect the inherent value of these future profit streams, profits reporting conformed to the requirements of the EEV Principles.
the directors publish supplementary value-based financial results.
Prudential, together with other listed UK life insurers, is a signatory On the EEV basis, the shareholders interest in the Groups long-term to the European CFO Forums EEV Principles.
This supplementary businesses comprises: information is provided on a EEV basis for the Groups long-term The present value of future shareholder cash flows from in-force business, including asset management operations and service covered business value of in-force business, less a deduction companies that support the long-term businesses.
These results for the cost of locked-in encumbered capital: are combined with the IFRS basis results of the Groups other businesses and are set out on pages 36 to 38. the locked-in encumbered capital: and The EEV basis of financial reporting is based on conventional shareholders net worth in excess of encumbered capital.
accounting principles and recognises profit as it accrues over the A full stochastic valuation has been undertaken to determine the value life of an insurance contract.
Although total profit from each contract of in-force business including the cost of capital.
A deterministic calculated under this method is the same as under the IFRS basis valuation of the in-force business is also derived using consistent of reporting, the timing of profit recognition is advanced.
assumptions and the time value of the financial options and The EEV basis can be illustrated by considering an individual guarantees is derived as the difference between the two.
co. uk This would save on printing and distribution Annual General Meeting 18 May 2006 costs, helping to conserve natural resources.
If you do this, you will be sent an email notification to say when shareholder documents Payment of 2005 final dividend 26 May 2006 are available on our website and you will be provided with a link to Announcement of 2006 interim results 28 July 2006 that information.
You will need your shareholder reference number which can be found on your share certificate or proxy form.
Ex dividend date 16 August 2006 Record date 18 August 2006 Share dealing services The Companys Registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, offer a postal Payment of 2006 interim dividend 27 October 2006 dealing facility for buying and selling Prudential plc ordinary shares, telephone 0870 242 4244.
They also offer a telephone Shareholder enquiries and internet dealing service, Shareview, which provides a simple Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, and convenient way of selling Prudential plc shares.
For telephone West Sussex BN99 6DA sales call 0870 850 0852 between 8.30am and 4.30pm, Monday to Tel: 0870 600 0190 Friday, and for internet sales log on to www.
co. uk dealing Fax: 0870 600 3980 ShareGift Textel: 0870 600 3950 for hard of hearing Shareholders who only have a small number of shares whose Dividend mandates value makes it uneconomic to sell them may wish to consider Shareholders may find it convenient to have their dividends donating them to ShareGift Registered Charity 1052686.
The paid directly to their bank or building society account.
If you relevant share transfer form may be obtained from Lloyds TSB wish to take advantage of this facility, please call Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Further information about ShareGift may be obtained Registrars on 0870 600 0190 and request a Dividend Mandate on 020 7337 0501 or from www.
Alternatively, you may download a form from implications for capital gains tax purposes no gain or loss on gifts www.
co. uk prudential-plc investors of shares to charity and it is also possible to obtain income tax relief.
shareholder services forms American Depositary Receipts ADRs Scrip dividend alternative The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the New York Stock The Company will be offering a scrip dividend alternative in Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares, evidenced respect of the final dividend of 11.02 pence per ordinary share by ADRs and traded under the symbol PUK.
Each American for the year ended 31 December 2005.
The number of new shares Depositary Share represents two ordinary shares.
All enquiries each shareholder who elects to take scrip will be entitled to receive regarding ADR holder accounts should be directed to JP Morgan, is calculated by dividing the total cash dividend due on each the authorised depositary bank, at JP Morgan Service Center, holding of shares as at the record date 24 March 2006 by the P O Box 3408, South Hackensack, New Jersey 07606-3408, US, reference price for each new ordinary share.
com The reference price is calculated as the average of the middle Form 20-F market quotations for the Companys shares as derived from The Company is subject to the reporting requirements of the the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five Securities and Exchange Commission SEC in the US as such business days which commenced on 22 March 2006.
Further requirements apply to foreign companies and files its Form 20-F details of the scrip dividend alternative will be mailed to with the SEC.
Copies of Form 20-F can be found on the Companys shareholders in early April 2006. website at www.
co. uk or on the SECs website at www.
gov Annual Report Any shareholder wishing to receive copies of the Groups Irish branch register Annual Report in place of an Annual Review and Summary The Company operates a branch register for Irish shareholders.
Financial Statement for all future years may do so by contacting All enquiries regarding Irish branch register accounts should be Lloyds TSB Registrars in writing at the address above or by calling directed to Capita Corporate Registrars Plc, Unit 5, Manor Street 0870 600 0190. Business Park, Manor Street, Dublin 7.
Electronic communications Shareholders are encouraged to elect to receive shareholder documents electronically by registering with Shareview at 48 Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 How to contact us Prudential plc Egg Prudential plc is an international retail financial Laurence Pountney Hill 1 Waterhouse Square London EC4R 0HH 138-142 Holborn services group that aims to help people secure and Tel: 44 0 20 7220 7588 London EC1N 2NA www.
Prudential plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Prudential public limited company Incorporated and registered in England A growth business and Wales Registered office: with strong momentum Laurence Pountney Hill London EC4R 0HH Registered number: 1397169 Prudential plc is a holding company, subsidiaries of which are authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
co. uk Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005
