com Report and accounts 2005 Page 48 Notes to the consolidated accounts 1.
Principal accounting policies Rathbone Brothers Plc is a company incorporated in the UK.
The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU for the first time IFRS.
The disclosures concerning the Groups transition from UK GAAP to IFRS are given in note 35.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company accounts in accordance with UK GAAP: these are presented on pages 88 to 96.
At the date of authorisation of these accounts, the following Standards and Interpretations, which have been endorsed by the EU and which are relevant to the Groups operations but which have not been applied in preparing these accounts, were in issue but not yet effective: The amendment to IAS 21 relating to the treatment of exchange differences on intra group loans in the consolidated financial statements.
The three amendments to IAS 39: Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement relating to the treatment of guarantees, the fair value option and hedging of intra-group transactions, which come into effect from 1 January 2006.
IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures and the related amendment to IAS 1 on capital disclosures, which comes into effect from 1 January 2007.
IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease, which comes into effect from 1 January 2006.
The directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group except for additional disclosures on capital and financial instruments when IFRS 7 comes into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007.
The directors have applied the amendments to IAS 19: Employee benefits issued in December 2004 when drawing up these accounts.
Basis of presentation The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in the consolidated accounts and in preparing an opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2004 for the purposes of transition to IFRS.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefit from the entities activities, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The acquisition method of accounting is used.
Under this method, the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the period are included in the consolidated profit and loss account from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Impairment At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its assets with finite lives to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The recoverable amount of non-financial assets is the higher of fair value less any cost to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present values using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash Rathbone Brothers Plc www.
com Report and accounts 2005 Page 49 flows have not been adjusted.
The recoverable amount of held to maturity investment securities and loans and receivables is calculated as the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate of the asset on recognition.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised as an expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss excluding goodwill subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
An impairment loss in respect of a held to maturity security or loans and receivables is reversed if the subsequent increase can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
An impairment loss in respect of an investment in equity instruments classified as available for sale is not reversed through profit or loss.
If the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available for sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss, the impairment is reversed through profit or loss.
Interest income and expenses Interest income and expense are recognised in the income statement for all instruments measured at amortised cost and for available for sale financial instruments using the effective interest method.
Interest payable and receivable on derivative financial instruments is included within net interest income.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or a financial liability and of allocating the interest income or interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or financial liability.
When calculating the effective interest rate, the Group estimates cash flows considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument but does not consider future credit losses.
The calculation includes all fees and points paid or received between parties to the contract that are an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and all other premiums or discounts.
Once a financial asset or a group of similar financial assets has been written down as a result of an impairment loss, interest income is recognised using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
Dividend income Dividend income from final dividends on equity securities is accounted for on the date the security becomes ex-dividend.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Fees and commissions Portfolio and other management advisory and service fees are recognised over the period the service is provided.
Asset management fees are recognised rateably over the period the service is provided.
Commissions receivable and payable are accounted for in the period in which they are earned.
To the extent that retained initial charge income received on the sale of units arises from an identifiable brokerage service, the income is recognised on the performance of that service.
Other retained initial charges are deferred and recognised as income on a straight line basis over the estimated average life of the unit holding.
Property, plant and equipment All property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less depreciation.
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets over their estimated useful lives, using the straight line method, on the following bases: Leasehold land and buildings: over the lease term Plant, equipment and computer hardware: over three to five years Rathbone Brothers Plc www.
com Report and accounts 2005 Page 50 Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 1.
Principal accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment continued The assets residual lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with the carrying amount.
These are included in the income statement.
Intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and is reviewed for impairment at least annually, or when other occasions or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the profit and loss and is not subsequently reversed.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is allocated to groups of cash generating units that correspond with the Groups segments, as these represent the lowest level within the Group at which management monitor goodwill for purposes of impairment testing.
Cash generating units are identified as the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
On disposal of a subsidiary the attributed amount of unamortised goodwill, which has not been subject to impairment is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
b Computer software and software development costs Acquired computer software licenses are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
These costs are amortised on the basis of the expected useful lives three to four years.
Costs associated with developing or maintaining computer software programs are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised using the straight-line method over their useful lives not exceeding four years.
c Client lists Acquired client lists are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire the list.
These costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives.
Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments and available-for-sale financial assets.
The classification of financial assets is determined at initial recognition.
a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading, and those designated at fair value through profit or loss at inception.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term or if so designated.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading.
b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services to a debtor or purchases a loan with no intention of trading the receivable.
c Held-to-maturity Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the Groups management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity, other than those that meet the definition of loans and receivables or that the group has classified as available for sale or fair value through profit or loss.
com Report and accounts 2005 Page 51 d Available-for-sale Available-for-sale investments are those intended to be held for an indefinite period of time, which may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or changes in interest rates, exchange rates or equity prices.
Purchases and sales of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, held-to-maturity and available-for-sale are recognised on trade date the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Loans are recognised when cash is advanced to the borrowers.
Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets have expired or been effectively transferred, or where the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value.
Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets are recognised directly in equity except for changes arising from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, which are recognised as income or expenditure in the income statement for monetary assets and directly in equity for non-monetary assets, until the financial asset is derecognised or impaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity should be recognised in profit or loss.
However, interest calculated using the effective interest method is recognised in the income statement.
The fair values of quoted financial instruments in active markets are based on current bid prices.
If the market for a financial asset is not active and for unlisted securities, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques.
These include the use of recent arms length transactions, discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and other valuation techniques commonly used by market participants.
Loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received.
After initial recognition, loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Work in progress Trust work in progress is included within other assets and is valued at the expected recoverable amount, including an appropriate portion of profit, calculated by reference to the stage of completion of the service rendered.
The corresponding income is recognised within fees and commissions receivable.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event which it is probable will result in an outflow of economic benefits that can be reliably estimated.
Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring which has been notified to affected parties.
Foreign currencies Transactions in currencies other than the relevant group entitys functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary financial assets carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in net profit or loss for the period, except for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated into the Groups presentational currency at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in equity within the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed.
com Report and accounts 2005 Page 52 Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 1.
Principal accounting policies continued Foreign currencies continued Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Gains and losses arising on translation are taken to the Groups translation reserve.
The Group has elected to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments denominated in a currency other than the Groups functional currency arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS as non-monetary foreign currency items and they are translated using the exchange rate applied on the date of acquisition.
Retirement benefit costs The cost of providing benefits under defined benefit plans are determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside the profit and loss and are presented in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the amended benefits become vested.
The amount recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation reduced by the fair value of plan assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Taxation Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method in respect of temporary differences arising from differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax basis used in the computation of taxable profit.
In principle, deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences may be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or negative goodwill for which amortisation is not deductible for tax purposes or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction, which affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amounts of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the rates that are expected to apply when the asset or liability is settled or when the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits which may be accessed without penalty.
Cash equivalents comprise short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of less than three months from the date of acquisition.
For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
