com Report and accounts 2005 Page 7 Chief operating officers report Paul Chavasse Chief Operating Officer Our success relies on the delivery of excellent Over 2005 we made significant investment, as client service to the individuals and advisers much in staff time as capital expenditure, in our who use our investment management and tax core investment management systems.
Our main and trust services.
To provide excellent client back office investment system is Quasar, provided service in an increasingly electronic and by Rhyme Systems.
We have worked with Rhyme automated environment requires a robust and as a beta test site to implement their most reliable infrastructure.
significant upgrade for a number of years, Quasar 6, which went live in two phases during 2005.
Processing core operations accurately and We have also introduced several significant new efficiently frees up the time of our investment enhancements to our front office system, the managers and trust professionals to devote their Rathbones Investment Desk, which we own technical and professional skills to servicing jointly with the developer, Lastic Ltd. clients.
Rather than follow the prevalent trend to outsourcing, Rathbones philosophy is to provide Key developments for 2005 included upgrading operational support in-house where economically our performance measurement module to the viable: we believe this provides more control, more GIPS Global Investment Performance flexibility and ultimately more responsive client Standards 2010 methodology: we have now service.
commenced a project that will allow investment managers to view performance attribution for all I have been particularly pleased that whenever we clients on-line.
We also introduced an improved have been talking to individuals who want to join embargo module, notifying investment managers us, or indeed larger corporate vehicles, the one of client and compliance dealing restrictions onthing that has always attracted favourable line.
Recognising the sophisticated nature of our comment is the quality and functionality of our front office systems, Rhyme Systems agreed at the systems.
These have been developed by and for end of 2005 to market the software for potential our investment managers and are entirely focused licensing to other Quasar users.
on servicing the needs of private clients and trustees.
The steady spend that has been made We also took the decision in March 2005 to over a number of years has stood us in good stead replace our client reporting software.
Our client and we envisage that we will continue to develop valuations for 31 December 2005 were produced our core systems with similar levels of investment on budget and on time using new software.
This over the coming years.
The work we did at the advanced system will lay the foundation for future time of the potential Rensburg acquisition developments in client reporting where we demonstrated our belief that up to 50 per cent foresee demands for more tailored and more more business can be put through our systems and electronic communication.
back office with only a 20 per cent increase in the While we invested in our infrastructure, our dayoperational headcount in Liverpool which would to-day processing continued to run smoothly.
This places us at the During the year we processed record volumes of forefront of likely rationalisation of the industry as client transactions, with fewer operational staff a consolidator.
and at lower cost than five years ago.
This is also a reflection on the stable, loyal and experienced workforce employed in our operational hub in Liverpool.
com Report and accounts 2005 Page 8 Operational benefits mortgages and children, and with increasing This stable and efficient investment operations longevity a 65 year old client could easily stay platform provides two key benefits: with Rathbones for another 25 years.
Nevertheless the majority of clients are under 65 and we are First, it allows us to service new and growing confident that services such as self-invested segments of our business.
We can provide high personal pensions, will broaden the appeal of what levels of service to SIPP providers and their clients we offer to a younger audience.
through electronic links and dedicated service undoubtedly an area of continuing importance in The broad appeal of our services means that, 2006.
As referred to in the chief executives although we have strong showings in our report, we are registered as an investment adviser traditional heartlands of the South East and North with the SEC, the US regulator, allowing us to West, our client base is also geographically diverse.
provide other services to US residents.
While many of our competitors are withdrawing from this Managing the business area, we do not see how, if we are to service the As our trust business has developed from various wealth management needs of a whole family, we smaller professional practices, we have added can exclude someone who happens to be seconded depth to our management structure.
This has to, or living in, the US.
particularly been the case in Jersey, our largest trust office, where we established a new Second, it allows us to take on more clients while management committee under the leadership of keeping operational costs under tight control.
Following the appointment of Since the year end we have announced the Gregor Allan as operations director for Jersey in proposed acquisition of Dexias UK investment 2004, we have bolstered both the IT and management and private banking business.
While personnel areas to provide increased support to the transfer of client data and processes from one the client-facing and fee-earning professionals.
platform to another is always complex, involving Over the last 18 months we have completely some transitional cost and risk, we are confident renewed the basic IT infrastructure in Jersey, that our core systems can comfortably handle an strengthening disaster recovery arrangements and increase in business of this scale.
At the same time laying the foundations for further developments we would hope to offer new investment managers to our electronic document management solutions.
joining Rathbones superior front office tools to In a professional business, rife with legal and those they have previously used, allowing them to technical documentation, where we generally enhance the level of service provided to their charge by the hour, such systems are increasingly clients.
Our philosophy of servicing a broad range of A key objective for 2006 will be to complete the clients, and welcoming them as individuals has relocation in late September into our new Jersey undoubtedly helped organic growth this year.
This is a prestigious site in the also reflected in the breakdown of our client base.
St Helier Esplanade and will bring together three The traditional private client is often seen as being separate office locations, helping communication retired and free from the financial ties of funding and saving a little shoe leather!
com Report and accounts 2005 Page 9 Our Geneva office is smaller than Jersey but we Our people have taken similar action as the business matures.
This report started by looking at the delivery of The management structure has been developed, client service through a stable operational with several new appointments.
Our people remain the glue that infrastructure was completely replaced in late cements any client service infrastructure.
Our CSR 2005, introducing a separate disaster recovery report shows we have a stable workforce with low location at Geneva airport.
We continue to try to enhance working conditions and make the company an attractive Regulatory compliance place to work, for example introducing a flexible Robust compliance with financial, tax and legal holiday scheme in 2005.
For without the very regulations is critical to our business.
Clients in all obvious commitment and expertise of staff across areas of our business place enormous trust in our all areas of the business, our clients could never integrity and professional expertise.
While we do hope to receive the excellent service we strive have concerns over the ever increasing complexity to deliver.
and length of the regulatory paperwork our clients now receive, we continue to place great store in the independence and transparency of our services.
The EU Savings Directive, designed to prevent cross-border tax evasion, was implemented in July Paul Chavasse 2005 and we have invested in the requisite systems Chief Operating Officer in both our trust and investment businesses to 7 March 2006 comply with these new rules.
Financial products can have several layers of sometimes less than transparent charges.
Our philosophy is always to minimise these.
For example, we actively convert client holdings to better value institutional units when these are available in collective funds.
At the end of 2004 we notified clients of changes to our fee schedule for 2005 to simplify our commission charges we now absorb most third party broker commission, passing fewer layers of charges on to the client.
In both cases our actions have been well in advance of new FSA regulations in 2005, known as depolarisation and unbundling in the industry, seeking greater transparency in collective fund commissions and third party broker commissions respectively.
Our people remain the glue that cements any client service infrastructure.
