com Report and accounts 2005 Page 53 Share based payments The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that had not vested as of 1 January 2005.
The Group engages in equity settled share-based payment transactions in respect of services received from certain employees.
The fair value of the services received is measured by reference to the fair value of the shares or share options granted on the date of the grant.
The cost of the employee services received in respect of the shares or share options granted is recognised in the income statement over the vesting period.
The fair value of the options granted is determined using option pricing models, which take into account the exercise price of the option, the current share price, the risk free interest rate, the expected volatility of the Companys share price over the life of the option award and other relevant factors.
Except for those which include terms related to market conditions, vesting conditions included in the terms of the grant are not taken into account in estimating fair value.
Non-market vesting conditions are taken into account by adjusting the number of shares or share options included in the measurement of the cost of employee services so that ultimately, the amount recognised in the income statement reflects the number of vested shares or share options.
Where vesting conditions are related to market conditions, the charges for the services received are recognised regardless of whether or not the market related vesting condition is met, provided that the non-market vesting conditions are met.
Segmental reporting A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
A geographical segment is engaged in providing services within a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
Fiduciary activities The Group commonly acts as trustees and in other fiduciary capacities that result in the holding or placing of assets on behalf of individuals, trusts, retirement benefit plans and other institutions.
These assets and income arising thereon are excluded from these financial statements, as they are not assets of the Group.
The Group holds money on behalf of some clients in accordance with the Client Money Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Such monies and the corresponding liability to clients are not shown on the face of the balance sheet as the Group is not beneficially entitled thereto.
Netting Assets and liabilities, and income and expenses, are not offset unless required or permitted by a Standard or Interpretation, where offsetting in the income statement or balance sheet reflects the substance of the transaction.
Operating leases Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation and uncertainty The Group makes estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group makes estimates about a range of long term trends and market conditions to determine the value of the deficit on its retirement benefit schemes, based on the Groups expectations of the future and advice taken from qualified actuaries.
The principal assumptions underlying the reported deficit of 18,710,000 are given in note 27.
Long term forecasts and estimates are necessarily highly judgemental and subject to risk that actual events may be significantly different to those forecast.
If actual events deviate from the assumptions made by the Group then the reported surplus or deficit in respect of retirement benefit obligations may be materially different.
Share based payments In determining the fair value of equity settled share based awards and the related charge to the income statement, the Group makes assumptions about future events and market conditions.
In particular, judgements must be formed as to the likely number of shares that will vest, and the fair value of each award granted.
The fair value of awards is determined using a
