com Report and accounts 2005 Page 89 Notes to the company accounts 36.
Significant accounting policies Basis of accounting The separate financial statements of the company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and law.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year with the exception of changes resulting from the adoption of FRS 20 Share based payment, FRS 21 Events after the balance sheet date, FRS 25 Financial instruments: Disclosure and FRS 26 Financial instruments: Measurement.
The recognition and measurement requirements of FRS 17 Retirement Benefits have also been adopted.
Previously the transitional disclosures of that standard have been followed.
The corresponding amounts in these company accounts have been restated in accordance with the new policies, as described in note 37.
FRS 28 Corresponding amounts has also been adopted for the first time in these accounts but has had no material impact thereon.
Impairment Tangible fixed assets are subject to review for impairment in accordance with FRS 11: Impairment of fixed assets and goodwill.
The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are written down by the amount of any permanent impairment and the loss is charged as an operating cost to the profit and loss account in the period in which this occurs.
The carrying value of tangible fixed assets may be written up to a value no higher than the original depreciated cost, should an external event reverse the effects of a previous impairment.
At each balance sheet date the Company reviews the carrying amount of its financial assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
Where there is objective evidence that an available for sale security is impaired the cumulative loss that has been recognised in reserves is removed from reserves and recognised in the profit and loss account.
An impairment loss in respect of an investment in equity instruments classified as available for sale is not reversed through profit or loss.
If the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available for sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the profit and loss account, the impairment is reversed through the profit and loss account.
Fixed assets Fixed assets are stated at historical cost less depreciation.
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets.
Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight line basis over its expected useful life, as follows: Leasehold land and buildings over the lease term Plant, equipment and computer software over three to five years Investments Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less provisions for impairment.
Share based payments The Companys equity-settled share option programme allows employees to acquire shares of the Company.
The fair value of options and share awards in relation to the Groups Share Incentive Plan and Long Term Incentive Plan granted to employees after 7 November 2002 and not vested as at 1 January 2005 is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using an option pricing model: taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Post retirement benefits The Company operates pension schemes providing benefits based on final pensionable pay.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Company.
Pension scheme assets are measured using market values.
Pension scheme liabilities are measured using a projected unit method and discounted at the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
com Report and accounts 2005 Page 90 Notes to the company accounts continued 36.
Significant accounting policies continued Post retirement benefits continued The pension scheme surplus to the extent that it is recoverable or deficit is recognised in full.
The movement in the scheme surplus deficit is split between operating charges, finance items and, in the statement of total recognised gains and losses, actuarial gains and losses.
Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Operating leases Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Taxation Full provision, without discounting, is made for deferred taxation arising from timing differences which have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date, except where otherwise required by accounting standards.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is more certain than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Other investments Available for sale investments are those intended to be held for an indefinite period of time, which may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or changes in interest rates, exchange rates or equity prices.
Equity investments are initially recognised at fair value.
For unlisted securities, the Company establishes fair value by using valuation techniques, including the use of recent arms length transactions, discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and other valuation techniques commonly used by market participants.
Equity investments are subsequently carried at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value are recognised directly in equity except for changes arising from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, which are recognised as income or expenditure in the profit and loss account for monetary assets and directly in equity for non-monetary assets, until the financial asset is derecognised or impaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity should be recognised in profit or loss.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets have expired or been effectively transferred, or where the Company has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Loan notes Loan notes are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received.
After initial recognition, loan notes are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Guarantees The Company has not adopted amendments to FRS 26 in relation to financial guarantee contracts which will apply for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2006.
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of subsidiaries, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
The Company does not expect the amendments to have any impact on the financial statements for the period commencing 1 January 2006.
