com Report and accounts 2005 Page 48 Notes to the consolidated accounts 1.
Principal accounting policies Rathbone Brothers Plc is a company incorporated in the UK.
The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU for the first time IFRS.
The disclosures concerning the Groups transition from UK GAAP to IFRS are given in note 35.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company accounts in accordance with UK GAAP: these are presented on pages 88 to 96.
At the date of authorisation of these accounts, the following Standards and Interpretations, which have been endorsed by the EU and which are relevant to the Groups operations but which have not been applied in preparing these accounts, were in issue but not yet effective: The amendment to IAS 21 relating to the treatment of exchange differences on intra group loans in the consolidated financial statements.
The three amendments to IAS 39: Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement relating to the treatment of guarantees, the fair value option and hedging of intra-group transactions, which come into effect from 1 January 2006.
IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures and the related amendment to IAS 1 on capital disclosures, which comes into effect from 1 January 2007.
IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease, which comes into effect from 1 January 2006.
The directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group except for additional disclosures on capital and financial instruments when IFRS 7 comes into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007.
The directors have applied the amendments to IAS 19: Employee benefits issued in December 2004 when drawing up these accounts.
Basis of presentation The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in the consolidated accounts and in preparing an opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2004 for the purposes of transition to IFRS.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefit from the entities activities, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The acquisition method of accounting is used.
Under this method, the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the period are included in the consolidated profit and loss account from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Impairment At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its assets with finite lives to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The recoverable amount of non-financial assets is the higher of fair value less any cost to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present values using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash
