10697 Capita 2005 back 14 3 06 09:54 Page 60 60 Capita Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 1 Corporate information The consolidated financial statements of The Capita Group Plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 22 February 2006.
The Capita Group Plc is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded.
The principal activities of the Group are given in the business review on pages 22 to 29.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies a Statement of compliance and first-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards The consolidated financial statements of The Capita Group Plc and all of its subsidiaries the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
These consolidated financial statements are the first annual financial statements which the Group has prepared in accordance with IFRS and consequently the Group has complied with IFRS 1 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
The parent company continues to apply UK GAAP in the preparation of its individual financial statements and these are contained on pages 98 to 105.
The Groups date of transition to IFRS is 1 January 2004 and comparative information in the financial statements is restated to reect the Groups adoption of IFRS except where otherwise required or permitted by IFRS 1.
IFRS 1 requires an entity to comply with each IFRS effective at the reporting date for its first financial statements prepared under IFRS.
As a general rule, IFRS 1 requires such standards to be applied retrospectively.
However, the standard allows several optional exemptions from full retrospective application.
The Group has elected to take advantage of the following exemptions: The Group has adopted IFRS 3 Business Combinations to the extent that it applies to acquisitions post 1 January 2004.
Acquisitions before that date are recorded as under previous accounting rules as the Group has taken advantage of the exemption allowed in IFRS 1 regarding business combinations recognised before the date of transition to IFRS.
All goodwill and intangibles will be tested for impairment, as required by IAS 36 Impairment of Assets: goodwill on an annual basis and intangibles when there is an indicator of impairment.
In addition, the Group has taken advantage of the exemption allowed in IFRS 1 not to apply IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates retrospectively to fair value adjustments and goodwill arising in business combinations that occurred before the date of transition to IFRS.
The Group has also elected to take advantage of the exemption which allows cumulative actuarial gains or losses on dened benefit pension schemes at the date of transition to IFRS to be recognised immediately.
The Group has elected to take advantage of the exemption allowed in IFRS 1 regarding cumulative translation differences.
Accordingly, the cumulative translation differences for all foreign operations are deemed to be nil at the date of transition to IFRS.
The Group has elected to apply the exemptions in IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement allowing the application of these standards from 1 January 2005 only.
The Group has elected to take advantage of the exemptions allowed in IFRS 1 regarding IFRS 2 Share-based payments.
The Group has applied the exemptions for share based payments granted on or before 7 November 2002.
This means that only equity instruments granted after 7 November 2002 that vest after the effective date of IFRS 2 on 1 January 2005 needed to be valued.
The reconciliations required by IFRS 1 are set out in note 34.
Specically, these are the reconciliations of the Groups balance sheets, as prepared under UK GAAP, to those prepared in accordance with IFRS as at 1 January 2004 the opening balance sheet as at the date of transition to IFRS and 31 December 2004 as well as the reconciliation of the Groups profit and loss account prepared under UK GAAP to that prepared in accordance with IFRS for the year to 31 December 2004.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985. b Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under IFRS where certain financial instruments, separately identiable intangibles acquired on business combinations and the pension assets and liabilities have been measured at fair value.
The carrying value of recognised assets and liabilities that are hedged are adjusted to record changes in the fair values attributable to the risks that are being hedged.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest tenth of a million m except when otherwise indicated.
c Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of The Capita Group Plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year.
The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies, but in accordance with UK GAAP.
Adjustments are made to bring into line any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
Where there is a loss of control of a subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements include the results for the part of the reporting year during which The Capita Group Plc has control.
d Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Costs are those incurred in bringing inventories to their present location and condition.
Costs include any direct materials, where applicable, and labour together with a proportion of operating overheads based on normal operating capacity but excluding borrowing costs.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
For service contracts see accounting policy on page 61.
