10697 Capita 2005 back 14 3 06 09:54 Page 74 74 Capita Notes to the consolidated financial statements 16 Impairment of goodwill Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to the groups of cash generating units CGUs listed below.
These represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored by management for internal reporting purposes.
The significant groups of CGUs identied are property services, resourcing services, insurance services, registrar services, financial services.
The remaining groups of CGUs are included in the balance of CGUs column.
The recoverable amount of all the cash generating units is based on a value in use calculation using cash ow projections based on the latest one year budget forecast extrapolated for four future years by a growth rate applicable to each unit: an appropriate terminal value based on a perpetuity calculation using nil real growth is then added.
A discount rate of 11.1% is then applied to these projections.
Compound growth rates years 25 % Property Services 6 Resourcing Services 6 Insurance Services 9 Registrar Services 12 Financial Services 14 Balance of CGUs weighted average growth rate 11 The growth rates used do not exceed published industry estimates.
The long term growth rate used does not exceed the UK long term growth rate.
Carrying amount of goodwill allocated to group of cash generating units Property Resourcing Insurance Registrar Financial Balance services services services services services of CGUs Total m m m m m m m 2005 Goodwill 43.8 80.7 166.6 88.3 89.0 81.7 550.1 2004 Goodwill 40.0 80.7 158.7 88.3 61.6 57.5 486.8 The key assumptions used in the impairment testing were as follows: profit before interest and taxation Discount rates Rates of growth in cash generating units beyond the budget period.
Profit before interest and taxation The profit before interest and taxation is based on the margins achieved remaining at the levels currently being achieved.
Discount rate The discount rate reects managements estimate of cost of capital employed for the groups of cash generating units listed above.
This is the benchmark established to assess operating performance and to evaluate future capital investment proposals.
Rates of growth in cash generating units beyond the budget period Growth rate assumptions are based on, as far as possible, published industry research.
Goodwill impairment During the year the goodwill recognised on the acquisition of the Industrial Societys workforce and training business, re-branded as Capita Learning & Development, which was transacted in December 2001 was impaired.
Over the period, the business has not performed to expectation largely due to a market decline in this type of training.
The impairment loss recognised against this residual goodwill amounted to 12.0m.
This cash generating unit Capita Learning & Development forms part of the Professional Services segment.
The CGU specialises in providing employee training.
The residual valuation after impairment is based on its value in use.
Management believes that no likely change in the key assumptions above would cause any of the identied cash generating units to become impaired, apart from Capita Learning & Development which is carried at value in use.
