10697 Capita 2005 back 14 3 06 09:54 Page 99 99 Capita Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005 1 Accounting policies a Basis of preparation The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
The accounts comply with the following new Financial Reporting Standards and Urgent Issues Task Force abstracts issued by the UK Accounting Standards Board.
FRS 20 Share based payment This standard, which is mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005 for listed entities, requires that share based payments, measured at fair value, should be recognised as an expense.
Accordingly, the company has recognised this expense in its profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December 2005 and has restated its profit and loss account for the prior year.
The consolidated financial statements include the full disclosures of IFRS 2 FRS 20 for the Group.
FRS 21 Events after the balance sheet date This standard, which is mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005, requires that dividends declared after the balance sheet date should not be reported as liabilities.
The standard instead requires that proposed dividends should be disclosed in the notes to the accounts.
Details are contained in note 10 to the accounts.
FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and presentation A separate note dealing with the disclosures of FRS 25 has not been presented as provided by paragraph 3C of FRS 25.
The consolidated financial statements include the required disclosures of IAS 32 for the Group.
Further standards in force are listed below and where relevant the companies accounting policy has been adjusted: FRS 23 The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Measurement FRS 28 Corresponding amounts The following new standards have no impact on the companys financial statements: FRS 22 Earnings per share FRS 24 Financial reporting in hyperinationary economies FRS 27 Life assurance FRSSE Financial reporting standard for smaller entitles A separate profit and loss account dealing with the results of the parent undertaking only has not been presented as provided by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985. b Tangible fixed assets Depreciation is provided on all tangible xed assets, other than freehold land, at rates calculated to write off the cost on a straight-line basis over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned, as follows: Computer equipment 3-10 years Furniture, xtures and equipment 4-5 years Leasehold improvements over the period of the lease c Investments Fixed asset investments are shown at cost, less provisions for impairment.
Investments held as current assets are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The carrying value of xed asset investments are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
d Pension schemes The company maintains a number of contracted-out dened contribution schemes and contributions are charged to the profit and loss account in the year in which they are due.
These schemes are funded and the payment of contributions is made to separately administered trust funds.
The assets of these schemes are held separately from the company.
The company remits monthly pension contributions to Capita Business Services Limited, a subsidiary undertaking of the company, which pays the Group liability centrally.
Any unpaid contributions at the year end have been accrued in the accounts of that company.
e Leasing commitments Assets obtained under finance leases are capitalised in the balance sheet and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful economic lives.
The finance charges under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are allocated to accounting periods over the period of the lease and represent a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Rentals due under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
10697 Capita 2005 back 14 3 06 09:54 Page 100 100 Capita Notes to the accounts 1 Accounting policies continued f Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less or to receive more, taxation, with the following exceptions: provision is made for taxation on gains arising from the revaluation and similar fair value adjustments of xed assets, and gains on disposal of xed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is a binding agreement to dispose of the assets concerned.
However, no provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to taxation only where the replacement assets are sold provision is made for deferred taxation that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable deferred taxation assets are recognised only to the extent that the Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred taxation is measured on an undiscounted basis at the taxation rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on taxation rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
g Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction or at the contracted rate if the transaction is covered by a forward exchange contract.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date or if appropriate at the forward contract rate.
All differences are taken to the profit and loss account with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings, to the extent that they are used to finance or provide a hedge against foreign equity investments, which are taken directly to reserves together with the exchange difference on the carrying amount of the related investments.
h National Insurance on share option gains National Insurance on outstanding share options at the year end has been grossed up and shown as a provision and a receivable on the balance sheet.
i Derivative financial instruments The company uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts to hedge risks associated with interest and exchange rate uctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair values of interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts are determined by reference to market rates for similar instruments.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classied as either: fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: or cash ow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash ows that is attributable to either a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction.
In relation to fair value hedges e. g. xed to oating interest rate swaps held as fair value hedges against xed interest rate borrowings which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from re-measuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the profit and loss account.
The company does not currently hold any cash ow hedges.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the profit and loss account.
j Share based payments The company operates a number of executive and employee share schemes.
The cost equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined using an option pricing model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the company market conditions.
No expense in recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards there vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions, the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
