10697 Capita 2005 back 14 3 06 09:54 Page 99 99 Capita Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005 1 Accounting policies a Basis of preparation The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
The accounts comply with the following new Financial Reporting Standards and Urgent Issues Task Force abstracts issued by the UK Accounting Standards Board.
FRS 20 Share based payment This standard, which is mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005 for listed entities, requires that share based payments, measured at fair value, should be recognised as an expense.
Accordingly, the company has recognised this expense in its profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December 2005 and has restated its profit and loss account for the prior year.
The consolidated financial statements include the full disclosures of IFRS 2 FRS 20 for the Group.
FRS 21 Events after the balance sheet date This standard, which is mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005, requires that dividends declared after the balance sheet date should not be reported as liabilities.
The standard instead requires that proposed dividends should be disclosed in the notes to the accounts.
Details are contained in note 10 to the accounts.
FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and presentation A separate note dealing with the disclosures of FRS 25 has not been presented as provided by paragraph 3C of FRS 25.
The consolidated financial statements include the required disclosures of IAS 32 for the Group.
Further standards in force are listed below and where relevant the companies accounting policy has been adjusted: FRS 23 The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Measurement FRS 28 Corresponding amounts The following new standards have no impact on the companys financial statements: FRS 22 Earnings per share FRS 24 Financial reporting in hyperinationary economies FRS 27 Life assurance FRSSE Financial reporting standard for smaller entitles A separate profit and loss account dealing with the results of the parent undertaking only has not been presented as provided by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985. b Tangible fixed assets Depreciation is provided on all tangible xed assets, other than freehold land, at rates calculated to write off the cost on a straight-line basis over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned, as follows: Computer equipment 3-10 years Furniture, xtures and equipment 4-5 years Leasehold improvements over the period of the lease c Investments Fixed asset investments are shown at cost, less provisions for impairment.
Investments held as current assets are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The carrying value of xed asset investments are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
d Pension schemes The company maintains a number of contracted-out dened contribution schemes and contributions are charged to the profit and loss account in the year in which they are due.
These schemes are funded and the payment of contributions is made to separately administered trust funds.
The assets of these schemes are held separately from the company.
The company remits monthly pension contributions to Capita Business Services Limited, a subsidiary undertaking of the company, which pays the Group liability centrally.
Any unpaid contributions at the year end have been accrued in the accounts of that company.
e Leasing commitments Assets obtained under finance leases are capitalised in the balance sheet and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful economic lives.
The finance charges under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are allocated to accounting periods over the period of the lease and represent a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Rentals due under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
