10697 Capita 2005 back 14 3 06 09:54 Page 91 91 Capita Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33 Related party transactions Other than the information disclosed in the Directors report and the Directors remuneration report, the only other related party transactions requiring disclosure are details of key management personnel compensation.
These details are set out in the table below.
Compensation of key management personnel excluding Directors of parent company 2005 2004 m m Short term employment benets 3.1 2.0 Post employment benets 0.1 0.1 Share based payments 1.1 0.5 4.3 2.6 Gains on share options exercised in the year by key management personnel totalled 0.4m 2004: 0.4m.
34 Transition to IFRS For all periods up to and including the year ended 31 December 2004, the Group prepared its financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice UK GAAP.
As noted above in note 2, these financial statements, for the year ended 31 December 2005, are the first the Group is required to prepare in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
Accordingly, the Group has prepared financial statements which comply with IFRS applicable for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005 and the significant accounting policies meeting those requirements are described in note 2.
In preparing these financial statements the Group has started from an opening balance sheet as at 1 January 2004, the Groups date of transition to IFRS, and made those changes in accounting policies and other restatements as required by IFRS 1 for the first-time adoption of IFRS.
This note explains the principal adjustments made by the Group in restating its UK GAAP balance sheet as at 1 January 2004 and its previously published UK GAAP financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004.
IFRS 1 allows first-time adopters certain exemptions from the general requirement to apply IFRS as effective for December 2005 year-ends retrospectively.
Details of the exemptions taken by the Group are set out in note 2.
Note that comparative information on financial instruments is prepared in accordance with UK GAAP and the Group has adopted IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement from 1 January 2005.
Accounting policies applied in the year ended 31 December 2004 As noted above, the Group has adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 with effect from 1 January 2005 and, as permitted by IFRS 1, the Group has not restated comparative information.
The new accounting policies as applied for the year ended 31 December 2005 are set out above in note 2.
For accounting periods up to the year ended 31 December 2004 the following accounting policies were applied in respect of financial instruments in the financial statements of the Group: Derivative financial instruments The Group uses forward currency contracts to reduce exposure to foreign exchange rates.
The Group also makes use of interest rate swaps to adjust interest rate exposures.
The Group considers its derivative instruments qualify for hedge accounting when certain criteria are met.
Forward foreign currency contracts The criteria for forward foreign currency contracts are: the instrument must be related to a rm foreign currency commitment it must involve the same currency as the hedged item and it must reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements on the Groups operations.
The rates under such contracts are used to record the hedged item.
As a result, gains and losses are offset against the foreign exchange gains and losses on the related financial assets and liabilities, or where the instrument is used to hedge a committed future transaction, are not recognised until the transaction occurs.
Interest rate swaps The Groups criteria for interest rate swaps are: the instrument must be related to an asset or liability and it must change the character of the interest rate by converting a variable rate to a xed rate or vice versa.
Interest differentials are recognised by accruing with net interest payable.
Interest rate swaps are not revalued to fair value or shown on the Group balance sheet at the year end.
If they are terminated early, the gain or loss is spread over the remaining maturity of the original instrument.
