63 Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of RIT Capital Partners PLC will be held at The Royal Automobile Club, 89 Pall Mall, London, SW1Y 5HS on 14 July 2005 at 11.00 a. m. Gentlemen attending are requested to wear a jacket and tie in order to comply with the rules of The Royal Automobile Club.
The meeting will be held for the following purposes: ORDINARY BUSINESS As ordinary business, to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, each of which is proposed as an ordinary resolution: 1.
To approve the Directors Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2005: 2.
To approve the Report on Directors Remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2005: 3.
To declare a final dividend of 3.1p per ordinary share: 4.
To re-elect Charles Bailey, who has attained the age of 70, as a Director: 5.
To re-elect Duncan Budge, who retires by rotation, as a Director: 6.
To re-elect Andrew Knight, who retires by rotation, as a Director: 7.
To re-elect Baron Lambert, who has served for more than nine years, as a Director: 8.
To re-elect James Leigh-Pemberton, who was appointed as a Director since the Companys annual general meeting held in 2004: 9.
To re-elect Michael Marks, who was appointed as a Director since the Companys annual general meeting held in 2004: 10.
To re-elect Nathaniel Rothschild, who was appointed as a Director since the Companys annual general meeting held in 2004: and 11.
To reappoint  LLP as auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
SPECIAL BUSINESS To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, which will be proposed as Special Resolutions: 12.
THAT the authority conferred upon the Directors by Article 11 A of the Companys Articles of Association authority to allot, and to make offers or agreements to allot, relevant securities be hereby extended for the period ending on whichever is the earlier of the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2006 and 30 September 2006: AND THAT such authority shall for that period relate to relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 52,059,389.
THAT the power conferred upon the Directors by Article 11 B of the Companys Articles of Association power to allot, or make offers or agreements to allot, equity securities as if Section 89 1 of the Companies Act 1985 did not apply to such allotment be hereby renewed for the period ending on whichever is the earlier of the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2006 and 30 September 2006.
THAT the Company be authorised to purchase up to an aggregate of 23,411,107 ordinary shares of 1 each of the Company or such a number of ordinary shares as represents 14.99% of the Companys issued capital at the date of the Meeting, whichever is less at a price exclusive of expenses which is: a not less than 1 per share: b not more than 5% above the arithmetical average of the middle-market quotations as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days preceding any such purchase: AND THAT the authority conferred by this Resolution shall expire on 30 September 2006 except in relation to the purchase of shares the contract for which was concluded before such date and which might be executed wholly or partly after such date.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 64 Annual General Meeting 15.
THAT the objects clause of the Memorandum of Association of the Company be amended by the addition of a new clause W and the renumbering of the existing Clauses W and X as X and Y as set out in the copy of the revised Memorandum of Association produced to the Meeting and signed by the Chairman of the Meeting.
THAT Article 141 of the Articles of Association of the Company be amended so that it reads in the manner set out in the copy of the revised Articles of Association produced to the Meeting and signed by the Chairman of the Meeting.
THAT the Articles of Association of the Company other than Article 141 be amended so that they read in the manner set out in the copy of the revised Articles of Association produced to the Meeting and signed by the Chairman of the Meeting.
THAT Article 78 of the Articles of Association of the Company be amended as set out in the Explanatory Notes appended to this Notice on pages 66 to 68.
By order of the Board J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited Secretary Registered office: 27 St Jamess Place London SW1A 1NR 26 May 2005 Copies of the amended Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company, together with copies of the directors service contracts with the Company and the Register of Directors Interests are available for inspection by any person at the Companys registered office and at the offices of Linklaters, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and Bank Holidays excepted until 14 July 2005 and will be available at the place of the AGM from 15 minutes prior to and during the AGM.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Annual General Meeting 65 Notes 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed.
The appointment of a proxy will not prevent a member from subsequently attending and voting at the meeting in person.
To be effective the instrument appointing a proxy, and any power of attorney or other authority under which it is executed or a duly certified copy of any such power or authority, must either be a deposited at the Companys registered office not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting or in the case of a poll taken otherwise than at or on the same day as the meeting or adjourned meeting for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used, or b lodged using the CREST Proxy Voting Service.
Entitlement to attend and vote at the meeting, and the number of votes which may be cast thereat, will be determined by reference to the Companys register of members at 12th day of July at 11.00 a. m. or, if the meeting is adjourned, not more than 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting as the case may be.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting services provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The Message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 3RA50 by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments specified in Note 3 above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in the Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 66 Explanatory Notes RESOLUTION 1 REPORT AND ACCOUNTS The Directors of the Company are required by company law to present the accounts, the Directors report and the auditors report on the accounts to the meeting.
RESOLUTION 2 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2003 which amended the Companies Act 1985 require that the Report on Directors Remuneration the Report be put to a vote by shareholders.
The Report is set out on pages 27 to 32 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
RESOLUTION 3 DIVIDEND A final dividend can only be paid after the shareholders at a General Meeting have approved it.
A final dividend of 3.1 pence per ordinary share is proposed.
RESOLUTIONS 4 TO 10 RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS As a result of changes to the Combined Code following the Higgs Report, any director who has agreed to do so eg in his original letter of appointment will retire at the AGM and not be eligible for re-election, and otherwise all directors will have to stand for re-election every 3 years, but will be eligible for re-election.
Duncan Budge and Andrew Knight retire by rotation and seek re-election by the shareholders.
James Leigh-Pemberton, Michael Marks and Nathaniel Rothschild were each appointed as Directors since the last Annual General Meeting and, under the Articles of Association, are required to retire and seek re-election by the shareholders.
Special notice is given with respect to the retirement and re-election of Charles Bailey, who has attained the age of 70, and Baron Lambert who has served for more than nine years as a Director.
RESOLUTION 11 REAPPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION OF THE AUDITORS Company law requires RIT Capital Partners plc, at each general meeting at which accounts are laid, to appoint auditors who will remain in office until the next general meeting at which accounts are laid.
The Board, having accepted the recommendation of the audit committee, propose that  LLP be reappointed as the Companys auditors.
RESOLUTION 12 RENEWAL OF DIRECTORS AUTHORITY TO ALLOT SHARES This resolution which will be proposed as a special resolution and requires the approval of three quarters of the votes cast at the meeting will, if approved, allow the Directors to allot ordinary shares in RIT Capital Partners plc other than subscriber shares or shares allotted in accordance with an employee share scheme.
This authority will last until the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 30 September 2006.
The maximum amount that can be allotted under this authority is 52,059,389.
RESOLUTION 13 DISAPPLICATION OF PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS This resolution a special resolution will renew the Directors authority to allot shares for cash, free from the preemption restrictions set out in the Companies Act 1985.
This authority will expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting in 2006 or on 30 September 2006 if earlier.
The Directors intend to observe the institutional guidelines in respect of allotment of shares for cash.
These presently require that the annual authority should not exceed 5% of the issued share capital and that no more than 7.5% of the issued ordinary share capital should be allotted for cash on a non pre-emptive basis in any rolling three-year period.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Explanatory Notes 67 RESOLUTION 14 PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES This resolution will be proposed as a special resolution and will allow RIT Capital Partners plc to make market purchases of up to 23,411,107 of its own ordinary shares or such a number of ordinary shares as represents 14.99% of the Companys issued capital at the date of the meeting, whichever is less at prices not less than 1 per share and not more than five per cent above the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days preceding such a purchase.
The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 the Regulations came into force on 1 December 2003.
The Regulations permit companies to hold any of their own shares which they have purchased as Treasury Shares as an alternative to cancelling them.
Accordingly, if the Company were to purchase any of its own shares under the authority conferred by this resolution, the Directors may consider holding them as Treasury Shares or the Directors may cancel the shares.
Such a decision will be made by the Directors at the time of purchase on the basis of the Companys and shareholders best interests.
The Directors currently have no intention to exercise the authority conferred in this resolution and will only purchase shares after taking account of the overall financial position of the Company and if the effect will be to increase net asset value per share and is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
RESOLUTIONS 15 TO 17 AMENDMENT TO THE ARTICLES AND MEMORANDUM OF ASSOCIATION The memorandum and articles of association need to be brought up to date with current corporate guidelines and new legislation.
A copy of the proposed new Articles and Memorandum of Association shall be available for inspection as stated in the Notice.
RESOLUTIONS 15 AND 16 INDEMNITY AMENDMENT TO THE ARTICLES AND MEMORANDUM OF ASSOCIATION These resolutions will amend the Articles and Memorandum of Association to update the terms of the indemnities, which will be out of date once the Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004 comes into force, and to take advantage of the new provisions relating to the funding of defence costs.
Under the Companies Act 2004, the Company is permitted to indemnify its directors against any liability incurred by a director to any person other than to RIT Capital Partners plc or any associated company in connection with any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust, by means of a qualifying third party indemnity provision.
This was previously prohibited under Section 310 CA 1985 under which a company was only able to fund a directors defence costs once final judgment in his or her favour had been reached.
The indemnity may now cover both the legal and financial costs of any adverse judgment, but cannot include the legal costs of the unsuccessful defence of criminal proceedings, fines imposed in criminal proceedings and penalties imposed by regulatory bodies such as the Financial Services Authority.
RIT Capital Partners plc will be permitted to pay directors defence costs as they are incurred, even if the action is brought by the Company itself.
Individual directors would still be liable to repay their defence costs to the extent funded by RIT Capital Partners plc if their defence is unsuccessful.
In addition and as part of this change, the powers of the Company to take out insurance for the protection of its Directors have been made more specific.
RESOLUTION 17 GENERAL AMENDMENTS TO THE ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION This resolution changes the Articles of Association in order to bring RIT Capital Partners plc in line with current corporate governance best practice and new legislation.
The legislation taken into account in updating the Articles of Association is: The Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 and Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004 RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 68 Explanatory Notes The material changes and their effect are explained below: Treasury Shares There is no longer a requirement to cancel treasury shares and companies may now hold these shares.
To avoid the articles being inconsistent with statute, it is desirable for them to refer to treasury shares, and to mention that the company cannot exercise rights voting, quorum, dividends etc.
CREST proxy voting In early 2003 the CREST Proxy Voting Services was introduced.
This service allows members of CREST to appoint proxies electronically.
Voting Demand for a poll Section 373 of the Companies Act 1985 allows a company to specify that any five members can demand a poll, Article 59 b has been changed accordingly.
RESOLUTION 18 AMENDMENT TO ARTICLE 78 OF THE ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION Article 78 stipulates the limit of aggregate fees that may be paid annually to the Companys non-executive directors.
The limit is currently 200,000 and it is proposed that this be increased to 300,000 to provide additional flexibility to appoint additional directors or increase directors fees in future.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
