Royal & SunAlliance 12 6 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Shareholder information Registered Office and Group Corporate Centre uneconomic to sell.
Shares donated through ShareGift are transferred 9th Floor, One Plantation Place, 30 Fenchurch Street, London EC3M 3BD.
into the name of The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, registered charity Telephone: 44 0 20 7111 7000.
ShareGifts purpose is to realise as much value as possible by collecting shares, selling them and using the proceeds to Company website make donations to a wide range of UK charities.
Further details can be The Annual Report & Accounts, interim results and other useful obtained from: The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, 46 Grosvenor Street, information about the Company is available on the website London W1K 3HN.
Investor Relations The Unclaimed Assets Register For further information about Royal & SunAlliance, please contact Royal & SunAlliance supplies unclaimed dividend data to The Unclaimed the Investor Relations department at: Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Assets Register UAR, which provides investors who have lost track of Group plc, 9th Floor, One Plantation Place, 30 Fenchurch Street, shareholdings with the opportunity to search the UARs database of London EC3M 3BD.
Telephone: 44 0 20 7111 7136. unclaimed financial assets on payment of a small, fixed fee.
The UAR Annual General Meeting donates part of the search fee to charity.
Further details can be obtained Ordinary shareholders are invited to attend the Companys Annual from: The Unclaimed Assets Register, Bain House, 16 Connaught Place, General Meeting AGM, which will be held in The Queen Elizabeth II London W2 2ES.
The website Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE address is www.
Ordinary shareholders who are unable Registrar to attend the AGM to ask a question in person may write to the Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
Company Secretarys department at the address above.
The shareholder helpline telephone number is 44 0 870 600 3988.
Disabled shareholders Overseas callers should use 44 0 121 415 7064.
Shareholders with Royal & SunAlliance is committed to providing a quality service to all of a text phone facility should use 44 0 870 600 3950. its shareholders.
An induction loop is installed at the AGM venue.
Please Please quote the company reference number 0059 and your contact the Company Secretarys department at the address above.
shareholder account number on your share certificate and dividend tax Share price vouchers when contacting or corresponding with Lloyds TSB Registrars.
The Companys share price is shown on Ceefax BBC1 page 230, BBC2 The Company has appointed Lloyds TSB Registrars as its registrar page 223 and on Teletext Ch4 page 519.
It is also available on the to manage the shareholder register, to ensure that all information Company website.
held about the Companys shareholders is kept up to date and to pay Share dealing dividends.
Further details about the services provided by Lloyds TSB Shares can be bought or sold through a stockbroker, bank or building Registrars can be found on page 127. society.
The rates of commission charged for share dealing services will American Depositary Receipts vary depending on the kind of service required.
The cheapest way to The Companys ordinary shares are quoted on the New York Stock deal in shares is usually on an execution only basis which means that Exchange, in the form of American Depositary Shares ADSs.
One a broker will act on their clients instructions to buy or sell, but will not ADS is equivalent to five ordinary shares.
ADSs are represented by give advice on the merits of the transaction.
The Company has established an execution only sharedealing service Any enquiry relating to registered ADR holdings should be addressed with Lloyds TSB Registrars for existing shareholders with a UK to: Citibank Shareholder Services, PO Box 43077, Providence RI registered address.
Shares can be bought or sold within minutes, 02940-3077.
The website address is between the hours of 8.30am and 4.30pm UK time, Monday to www.
Shareholders will need to have their share The Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements are distributed to certificate s to hand when dealing.
registered and beneficial ADR holders, followed by financial statements in a US format.
The Group files its annual report on Form 20-F and Capital gains tax other information with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
The market value at 31 March 1982 of each post consolidation ordinary share of 27.5p in the Company, for capital gains tax purposes ADR dividends after relevant adjustments, was 146.41p 25p shares 133.1p for former ADR holders are eligible for stock dividends and other entitlements Royal Insurance shareholders and 57.97p 25p shares 52.7p for former accruing on the underlying Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc Sun Alliance shareholders.
An adjustment to tax cost is required to take ordinary shares and receive all cash dividends in US dollars.
Dividends account of the 2003 rights issue, according to whether the rights were are usually paid twice a year.
Dividend cheques are mailed directly to taken up or sold.
Similarly, for former Royal Insurance shareholders an registered ADR holders on the ADR dividend payment date.
Dividends adjustment to tax cost is required to take account of the 1993 rights on ADRs held via the Depositary Trust Company are subsequently paid issue, according to whether the rights were taken up or sold.
to beneficial ADR holders in the Book Entry Only system.
ShareGift The purpose of ShareGift is to make it easy for shareholders to donate any number of shares to charity.
The service can be particularly useful for shareholders with a small number of shares, which would be Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 12 7 Frequently asked questions A range of shareholder information is available on line at Q Why do I receive multiple sets of information whenever www.
co. uk, including practical help on transferring you send anything to me?
Shareholders can also register for A If you have acquired shares on more than one occasion, your secure access to their portfolio, enabling them to check holdings holdings may have been recorded on the register of shareholders and register their email address to receive shareholder information with slightly different details.
As a result, two or more accounts and the Annual Report & Accounts electronically.
At present, the may have been set up for you.
Sometimes multiple accounts are portfolio service is free.
necessary, eg if you hold shares in your own name and also in joint names with a partner.
However, sometimes multiple accounts can Q I have recently moved house who should I tell?
Please contact Lloyds TSB Registrars to discuss A Please notify Lloyds TSB Registrars in writing at the above address.
whether your accounts can be amalgamated.
Remember to state clearly your old address.
If you hold shares in joint names, the letter must be signed by the first named person Q How can I get my dividends paid directly into my bank or on the share certificate.
If you have previously registered for the building society account?
Shareview portfolio service, you can log onto www.
co. uk A You will need to supply your bank or building society account and change your address electronically.
details to Lloyds TSB Registrars.
You can obtain a dividend payment mandate form from Lloyds TSB Registrars.
A copy of the form is Q What should I do if I change my name?
also attached when dividend cheques are mailed out.
A To ensure that your shareholding is registered in your new name, please write to Lloyds TSB Registrars.
You will need to enclose Q Can I receive shares in lieu of cash dividends?
evidence of the change, for example, a copy of your marriage A The Company offers a scrip dividend scheme, which allows ordinary certificate or change of name deed please do not send originals, shareholders to receive new ordinary shares of 27.5p each instead together with your share certificate s and any uncashed dividend of cash dividends.
The scrip dividend scheme applies to both interim cheques.
New documents will then be issued in the right name.
and final dividends, and enables shareholders to increase their holdings in the Company without incurring dealing costs or stamp Q My share certificate has been lost stolen.
At the same time, the Company retains cash for reinvestment a replacement?
in the business, which would otherwise be paid out as a dividend.
A You should inform Lloyds TSB Registrars immediately.
They will send Please telephone Lloyds TSB Registrars on 0870 600 3988 for you a form of indemnity to complete and request payment of an further information.
The form of indemnity is required to protect the Company from the potential misuse of the missing share certificate, Q I would like to transfer shares to somebody I know.
How so must be returned before a new share certificate can be issued.
A Such transactions need not involve a stockbroker: you can use a Q I have lost my dividend tax voucher how can I get stock transfer form.
The form can be obtained from Lloyds TSB another one?
Registrars or printed from their website www.
A To get a replacement, you will need to contact Lloyds TSB Registrars.
A small fee will be payable for this service.
Q How do I register the death of a shareholder?
A The first step is to write to Lloyds TSB Registrars, to let them know Q I have found an out of date dividend cheque how can what you are going to do.
They will then place a temporary marker I cash it?
on the register to ensure that further dividend payments are not A Please send the out of date cheque to Lloyds TSB Registrars, with a issued in the late shareholders name.
They will also send you the request that they issue a replacement cheque.
There will be a small forms that you will need to complete.
administration charge for issuing replacement dividend cheques for larger payments.
Q I would like to receive future communications electronically how can I arrange this?
co. uk and create your own portfolio.
You will need your shareholder account number on your share certificate s and dividend tax vouchers to access this service.
