37 Directors Report 39 Corporate Governance 44 Remuneration Report 49 Directors Emoluments 51 Directors Interests 53 Independent auditors report to the members of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc 54 Consolidated Income Statement 55 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 56 Consolidated Balance Sheet 57 Consolidated Cashflow Statement 58 Estimation techniques, uncertainties and contingencies 62 Significant accounting policies 69 Notes to the financial statements 114 Independent auditors report to the members of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc 115 Parent Company Balance Sheet 116 Statement of Changes in Equity of the Parent Company 117 Parent Company Cashflow Statement 118 Notes to the separate financial statements Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 37 Directors Report The directors of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc present their The Group continues to focus on the development of employees report and the audited financial statements of the Company for the year in order that they can deliver high levels of performance.
In 2005 a ended 31 December 2005. particular focus has been the further development of the Executive Development Programme EDP, a global programme which aims to Principal activity accelerate the development of our in house executive talent.
The EDP The Company is the holding company of the Royal & SunAlliance Group has been designed to support those who have the potential to take on of companies the Group whose principal activity is the transaction of Executive Team or direct report to Executive Team roles in the future, personal and commercial general insurance business.
The Group operates thus ensuring that we build a pipeline of strategic leadership capability in 27 countries.
Review of the year and future developments The web based Global Employee Survey was run for the first time These are outlined in the Chairmans Statement and Group CEOs in 2004 and repeated in 2005.
In 2005, 91% of eligible employees Review and the Operating Review beginning on page 4.
The Group took the opportunity to contribute.
Our aim is to consistently seek consolidated financial statements are shown on pages 54 to 57. feedback on the environment we are creating as an employer and to Dividends work constructively towards our objective of becoming an employer The directors recommend a final dividend of 3.05p per share which, if of choice.
Our intention is to repeat this survey annually, to ensure we approved, will be due for payment on 2 June 2006 to holders of ordinary have a current picture of employees views and also to track year on shares on the register at the close of business on 17 March 2006.
This, year movement in particular areas of priority.
In this way, by asking our together with the interim dividend of 1.69p per share, will make a total employees, we measure how the culture of our business is changing.
dividend for the year of 4.74p per share.
For example, in 2005 we have seen a significant improvement in the proportion of employees who responded positively to the statement The preferential dividend at the rate of 3.6875% for the period from The better my performance, the better my pay will be.
We believe 1 October 2005 to 31 March 2006 is to be paid on 3 April 2006 to we can create real competitive advantage by building and maintaining holders of preference shares on the register at the close of business a high performance culture across the Group.
As in 2004, we have on 17 March 2006. used the 2005 results to build a Groupwide action plan which requires Employment policy every manager to identify and work on areas of particular importance The Groups employment policy reflects our belief that motivated and to their team.
skilled employees are critical to our success.
Our policy is to encourage employee share ownership.
Employees from We promote equal opportunities and diversity across the Group.
This the majority of our global businesses are encouraged to participate in involves recruiting, retaining, rewarding and developing people solely the International Sharesave Plan which is an Inland Revenue approved on the grounds of ability to do the job, and establishing and promoting all employee sharesave scheme.
a working environment which is free from discrimination.
Employees are kept well informed of the performance and objectives of The Group is committed to preventing discrimination on the grounds of the Group.
This includes ensuring that all job applicants, including those The Group actively encourages employees to become involved in with a disability, are considered solely on the basis of ability to do the job, supporting their local communities.
Further details are provided in and making reasonable adjustments to working environment, working the Corporate Responsibility section of this report on page 32. arrangements and working conditions to support disabled employees.
We are committed, wherever possible, to supporting the rehabilitation Environmental policy and return to work of employees who become disabled during their Details of our environmental policy can be found on our website at career with us.
The Group is committed to fostering a constructive dialogue with Corporate governance independent trade unions wherever they are recognised, ensuring A report on corporate governance appears on pages 39 to 43. a regular and constructive dialogue on business issues and early Supplier payment policy consultation on changes affecting the workforce.
In the UK, Amicus is It is the Groups policy to agree appropriate terms and conditions in formally recognised through a partnership agreement which covers advance with its suppliers and to make payment in accordance with collective consultation and bargaining on behalf of non management those terms and conditions, provided that the supplier has complied employees.
The Management Association TMA represents managerial with them.
In most cases, agreements for the supply of goods or services employees under a separate consultative agreement.
In June 2005, are made under standard terms of contract that lay down payment 19 elected delegates from our European businesses attended the terms.
In the UK these are available on request from UK Purchasing, annual European Consultative Forum ECF, which is a cross European Leadenhall Court, 1 Leadenhall Street, London EC3V 1PP.
body created to enable information sharing and consultation on transnational issues with the European workforce.
In 2005, an The Companys outstanding indebtedness to trade creditors on amended ECF constitution was agreed which introduced streamlined 31 December 2005 amounted to 2,719,448 corresponding to consultation arrangements.
12 days payment when averaged over the year.
Royal & SunAlliance 38 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Directors Report continued Share capital During the year, 2,137,513 ordinary shares of 27.5p each were issued in satisfaction of the exercise of employee share options for a total consideration of 2m, and 20,661,210 ordinary shares of 27.5p each were issued under the Companys scrip dividend scheme for a total consideration of 20m.
An authority from the shareholders for the Company to purchase up to 291,236,359 of its own ordinary shares representing 10% of its issued share capital as at 9 March 2005 remained in force at 31 December 2005.
Substantial share interests As at 8 March 2006, Brandes Investment Partners LLC and Legal & General Group plc had declared an interest in ordinary shares of 27.5p each in the Company representing 6.7% and 3.2% respectively of the issued ordinary share capital, in accordance with Part VI of the Companies Act 1985.
Directors Members of the Board of Directors are listed on page 35.
David Paige was appointed to the Board on 16 February 2005.
Bridget McIntyre was appointed to the Board on 2 November 2005.
At the 2006 Annual General Meeting Bridget McIntyre will be eligible for reappointment under Article 110.
John Napier and Andy Haste will retire by rotation under Article 106 and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Related party transactions Related party transactions are set out in note 34 on page 111.
Charitable and political contributions The Company and its subsidiaries worldwide made charitable donations of 744,412 during the year.
The largest donation of 250,000 was made to the Samaritans Partnership.
The Group did not make any donations to European Union EU political parties, nor to political parties outside the EU during 2005, and it is not the Groups policy to do so.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on Monday 22 May 2006 at 11.00 am.
Enclosed with this report is a letter from the Chairman to shareholders.
Attached to the letter is the Notice convening the meeting which will include items of ordinary and special business that are explained in the letter.
Auditors  LLP have confirmed their willingness to continue in office as auditors of the Company and a resolution for their reappointment will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the directors Mark R Chambers General Counsel and Group Company Secretary London 8 March 2006 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 39 Corporate Governance Compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code The Chairmans main responsibilities are to lead the Board, liaising as The Group complied throughout 2005 with the Principles and Provisions necessary with the Group CEO on developments between meetings of section 1 of the new Combined Code and with the Schedules except of the Board, and to ensure that the Group CEO and his executive with respect to: management team have appropriate objectives and that their performance against those objectives is reviewed.
The appointment of a senior independent director Provision A.
3.3, The Group CEO is responsible to the Board for the executive management A majority of independent directors on the Nomination Committee of the Group and for liaising with the Chairman and keeping him informed Provision A.
The required explanation for these exceptions is the significant The Groups Delegated Authority Policy specifies how executive authority restructuring of the Board in recent years, the relative size of the Board is delegated from the Board to the Group CEO and then on to the other and the high frequency of meetings.
All non-executive directors are executives in the Group.
Individual executive licences issued by the encouraged to communicate directly with executive directors outside Group CEO to each of his direct reports set out their specific limits of formal meetings and an active dialogue is maintained by the Board on authority in terms of entering into financial, underwriting and other ongoing issues.
The non-executive directors have a unanimous view business commitments.
Each direct report is responsible for ensuring a that the appointment of a senior independent director is not required similar process of delegation is in place within their area of responsibility.
Notwithstanding the composition of the Nomination Committee, all non-executive directors would be involved in any The Articles of Association of the Company require directors to submit process for the appointment of an additional independent director.
themselves for reappointment at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment and for re-election every three years thereafter.
The Sarbanes Oxley Board met 12 times during 2005.
In addition, there were five occasions The Group is required to comply with the Sarbanes Oxley Act 2002 when directors met as a Committee of the Board in order to authorise as a result of its listing on the New York Stock Exchange.
An internal transactions already agreed in principle at Board meetings.
On those programme established in 2003 to ensure compliance and to embed occasions a quorum of two directors was required.
controls in the business is nearing completion.
Directors The Group has placed on its website www.
com Biographical details of all current directors can be found on page 35. a general summary of the significant ways in which the Groups The appointments of David Paige and Bridget McIntyre as executive corporate governance differs from that followed by domestic directors, with effect from 16 February 2005 and 2 November 2005 US companies under the New York Stock Exchanges listing rules.
respectively, were announced during the year.
The Board In seeking new directors, the Chairman and the Nomination Committee The Board is responsible for organising and directing the affairs of have had regard to the size of the Board and the balance of executive the Company and the Group in a manner that is in the best interests and non-executive directors as well as of the skills and experience of the shareholders, meets legal and regulatory requirements and is which are already represented and those which would be desirable also consistent with good corporate governance practices.
There is on the Board going forward.
a formal document setting out the way in which the Board operates.
Attendance at meetings of the Board and the Group Audit, Nomination The Board is also ultimately responsible to the Financial Services and Remuneration Committees is shown in the table on page 43.
Authority FSA for ensuring compliance with the Groups UK regulatory obligations.
In 2005 the Board undertook a formal evaluation of its performance and of all of its committees, as well as an appraisal of the Chairmans The principal matters reserved to the Board include: performance and that of the individual directors.
This included the Approval of the Groups long term objectives and commercial strategy, use of a comprehensive questionnaire.
Approval of changes to the Groups senior management structure, At all times during the year, at least half of the Board was comprised of non-executive directors.
Approval of the Groups overall risk appetite, The Chairman meets regularly with the non-executive directors both Annual review of the effectiveness of internal control arrangements, individually and collectively without the executive directors.
Approval of the annual operating and capital budgets, The Board considers that all of the non-executive directors who have Changes to the Groups capital structure, served during the year were independent.
Approval of the Groups financial results and any significant changes The Chairman met the independence criteria in the Combined Code on to accounting practices or policies.
There have been no changes to his external commitments since then which might affect his responsibilities to the The division of responsibilities between John Napier, the Chairman, Group.
None of the executive directors are on the board of another and Andy Haste, the Group CEO, has been clearly established by way FTSE 100 company.
of written role statements, which have been approved by the Board.
Royal & SunAlliance 40 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Corporate Governance continued Non-executive directors are aware that they have to report any change at least annually.
The systems are designed to manage, rather than in their circumstances or those of the members of their families that eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can might lead to the Board reconsidering whether they are independent.
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Directors are also aware that they have to make the Board aware of any financial misstatement or loss.
conflict of interest they might have in respect of any item of business Executive management has the responsibility for establishing and and absent themselves from consideration of any such matter.
implementing appropriate systems and controls in their own areas of Directors have the right to have their concerns about the running of the remit.
The Group Risk Management Framework provides the mechanism Company minuted and documented in a written statement on resignation.
through which risk management and control is embedded throughout the Group.
Each business is required to follow a consistent process The Company has arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of to identify, assess, manage and monitor their key risks.
A central risk legal action against its directors and officers.
management function the Group Risk function oversees this process Professional development and training and reports progress to the Board Risk Committee and Group Audit On appointment, new directors are subject to a formal induction Committee.
programme and receive training and guidance on their duties and Group risk appetite responsibilities.
Continuing professional development is offered to The Group has established a statement of Group risk appetite which all directors and the Board is given guidance on developments.
sets business volumes for certain higher risk insurance classes, stipulates Resources loss retention limits, reinsurance protection, targets for credit rating and Directors have access to the services and advice of the General Counsel solvency margins, and other appropriate measures.
There is a formal and Group Company Secretary, and may take additional independent escalation process for potential or emerging risks that are outside the professional advice at the Groups expense in furtherance of their duties.
Corporate Governance Framework Further work was carried out during 2005 to integrate the capital The Groups Corporate Governance Framework describes and prescribes and risk management frameworks and enable the Group to measure, how the Group is directed and managed by setting out the matters on a consistent basis, the relative risk of its operations worldwide and reserved for the Board, the terms of reference of Board and management to allocate capital on the basis of an assessment of risk and return.
committees, role statements, policies, systems, procedures and controls.
Risk framework Committees The Group has continued to adopt the risk management model known Details of the chairmen and membership of the Group Audit, Nomination, as the three lines of defence governance model.
The framework for Remuneration and Investment Committees are set out in the table on the oversight and management of risk is as follows: page 43 together with details of attendance at meetings.
Management the first line of defence, in setting strategy, performance, The Investment Committee meets twice a year, now under the measurement, establishment and maintenance of internal control chairmanship of Malcom Le May.
All non-executive directors are and risk management in the business, members of the Committee, which assists the Board in setting the Risk assessment the second line, operating a formal risk management Groups investment strategy and monitors the execution of that framework within which the Group policies and minimum standards strategy and the Groups investment performance.
are set and objective oversight and challenge of risk management The Board Risk Committee was chaired by Andy Haste until February across the Group is achieved.
This includes the Board Risk Committee, 2005.
David Paige, the Group Risk Director, assumed the role of Chairman supported by the Group Risk function and a Groupwide network of of the Committee with effect from March 2005.
This Committee regional risk committees, oversees all aspects of risk faced by the Group in accordance with the Independent assurance the third line of defence, providing Board approved risk appetite, which is set out in policies, control limits independent and objective assurance of the effectiveness of the and other mechanisms in relation to such risks.
Groups systems of internal control established by the first and second The Board Risk Committee, which meets quarterly, comprises the lines of defence.
This is the Group Audit Committee, supported by executive directors with other executive management as regular Group Internal Audit.
Its purposes include: defining the Groups risk appetite Group risk policy statements prior to approval by the Board: approval of policy and minimum Group risk policy statements set out the minimum standards to be standards that are consistent with the appetite: ensuring that risks maintained by the Groups operations in order to manage their risks that are outside the appetite are mitigated in an appropriate manner: in a way that is consistent with the risk appetite.
Business managers and overseeing and challenging the Groups risk management processes.
are responsible for complying with Group and local risk policies and The Committee achieves these objectives by considering reports from for managing risk by taking mitigating actions where risks are outside risk specialists both internal and external to the Group, and by reviewing the appetite.
The Board Risk Committees oversight and challenge Group level risk management information.
role includes consideration of risk mitigation.
Risk management and internal control Policy statements are drafted by Group Risk in consultation with The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of risk regional business units and approved by the Board Risk Committee.
management and internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 41 They are mandatory policies that business units must comply with All major treaty purchases are analysed using various sophisticated unless they obtain approval for a variation of or dispensation from modelling tools to ensure that the level of cover purchased is capital a particular requirement.
Breaches that are identified by Regions, efficient and aligned with Group risk appetite and strategy.
or through monitoring activity, must be escalated to the appropriate Operational risk level, with material breaches being reported to the Committee.
Operational risk exists in every facet of the organisation, including those Processes are in place to keep policies under review in order to reflect areas that are not viewed as operating units.
As such, all areas of the changes in circumstances and the risk appetite.
Accompanying these Group and its major outsourcing providers are involved in addressing policies there are a number of detailed documents setting out best and controlling operational risk.
The Group uses a suite of risk tools to help manage operational risk Risk categories using a common categorisation of risk.
These tools include Risk and Within the Group the risk elements are viewed under the following Control Self Assessments, Key Risk Indicators, Scenario Analyses, headings, which broadly correspond to headings used in the Financial Incident Management and Loss Data.
Services Authoritys Integrated Prudential Sourcebook PRU : Risk and Control Self Assessments are undertaken on a regular basis Insurance underwriting and claims risk, as part of the Business Risk Assessment Process.
This is a Groupwide Reinsurance risk, risk assessment process and has three main elements: high level risk assessments, which review risks from the top down: bottom up risk Operational risk, self assessments: and external events and material change assessments, Credit, market and liquidity risk, which assess risks during times of significant change to the organisation, infrastructure and business operating environment.
A series of forward looking key risk indicators are used to assess potential Additional information is provided in note 28. future trends in operational risks, whilst data collected on actual We also take account of strategy risk and of the contagion risk, whether operational risk incidents and near misses captures past experiences.
financial, operational or reputational, faced by individual entities as a In addition, the use of scenario analyses enables the Group to assess result of being members of the Group.
whether certain operational events that have occurred elsewhere could manifest themselves within the Group.
When taken together, the tools The following details some of the key current practices, tools and other provide a complementary set of indicators of the Groups operational arrangements for each risk category.
Insurance risk Credit, market and liquidity risks The Groups general insurance activities are primarily concerned with the The primary sources of credit risk within the Group are investment pricing, acceptance and management of risks arising from our contracts and treasury activities and reinsurance counterparty risk.
The management of the underwriting and claims risks the investment management and treasury activities, a range of bank uses a number of key tools, including territorial underwriting licences counterparty concentration and credit quality limits together with that authorise countries to write certain higher risk classes of business, other controls are in place to ensure that exposure is managed reviewing the performance and management of all the individual within the Group risk appetite.
New reinsurance cover is placed with insurance portfolios throughout the Group and the investigation of reinsurers that are authorised as Approved Reinsurance Counterparties potential emerging insurance risks.
We are continuously improving recommended by the Group Reinsurance Credit Committee under the oversight, and tools in support of it, in this area to ensure that criteria approved by the Board Risk Committee.
Target credit profiles we remain in control of our insurance business and the risks within it.
and single name limits are set to manage and control the Groups Claims development and reserving levels are closely monitored by reinsurance credit exposure within the Groups risk appetite.
Each Regions Reserve Committee determines a risk appetite for credit risk within all of the Groups activity remains low.
recommended level of outstanding claims reserves, the recommendations Market risk arises from the Groups investment portfolios.
The Global of which are determined in accordance with the Group Reserving Policy.
Asset Management Committee is the management committee that The Group Reserve Committee then consider these recommendations oversees the Groups investment strategy under the oversight of the before determining the final level of outstanding claims reserves to be Investment Committee and operating within risk limits set by the Board carried by each Region and consequently by the Group in aggregate.
During 2005 the Group has introduced enhanced risk Reinsurance risk analytical techniques in line with the Groups capital model to improve The Groups reinsurance strategy and appetite are set and agreed by the quantification and understanding of the risk exposures.
the Board Risk Committee and published and disseminated via the Liquidity risk is considered to be a low risk category.
Group liquidity is Group reinsurance policy statement.
The Group Reinsurance Credit managed by Group Treasury and each operation is required to maintain Committee oversees the implementation of the counterparty credit a minimum level of cash or cash equivalents or highly liquid assets that aspects of this strategy.
can be liquidated within a maximum stated period of time.
Contingency A combined Group and UK reinsurance team monitors and controls funding plans are prepared and monitored to ensure that these minimum reinsurance activity throughout the Group, and has responsibility levels are met even in stress conditions.
for the purchase of the Groups worldwide programme of treaties.
Royal & SunAlliance 42 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Corporate Governance continued Regulatory risk The Board through the Group Audit Committee receives reports from The Group operates in a number of geographical locations with diverse the Group Chief Auditor and his team on the integrity of the control regulatory requirements.
Internationally the regulatory environment is environment and also receives reports from the external auditors becoming more complex and demanding.
In response to this the Group based upon their audit work.
The Group Audit Committee also receives continues to strengthen its arrangements for regulatory compliance reports on the Groups arrangements for ensuring regulatory compliance.
and to ensure that it maintains open and cooperative relationships with The Board, through the Board Risk Committee, considers reports from its regulators.
risk specialists both internal and external to the Group, and reviews Group level risk management information.
Risk review visits In addition to setting policy and standards, Group Risk undertakes risk Each quarter there is a self certification process completed by business review visits to regional operations to review regional risk management managers across the Group to confirm the adequacy of controls and practices.
These review visits are tailored to the risk profile for the their compliance with Company policies, laws, rules and regulations.
operation and will consider inter alia insurance, operational, credit, The Board considers that collectively this reporting framework gives market, liquidity, strategic and emerging risks.
it sufficient information upon which to monitor the systems of internal Annual General Meeting AGM control and to review their effectiveness as required by the Combined The AGM Notice is despatched to shareholders at least 20 working Code.
The Board therefore considers that there is an ongoing process days before the meeting and contains separate resolutions including a for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the resolution to adopt the Annual Report & Accounts.
At AGMs, the Chairman Group, that it has been in place for 2005 and up to the date of approval of the Group and the chairmen of the Group Audit, Nomination and of the Annual Report & Accounts, that it is regularly reviewed by the Remuneration Committees make themselves available to take questions Board and accords with the Turnbull Guidance on the Combined Code.
Report of the Group Audit Committee The Company has arrangements in place with its registrars to ensure that Membership all proxy votes are received and accurately counted.
The level of proxies The membership of the Committee and the attendance record of lodged on each resolution, including votes for, against and abstained directors in 2005 is shown in the table below.
All members of the are published on the Groups website at www.
com Committee are independent non-executive directors.
Both Edward after each AGM.
Lea and John Maxwell have recent and relevant financial experience.
Directors responsibilities In 2005, the Committee met seven times.
The Chairman, Group CEO, The directors are required to ensure that adequate accounting records Chief Financial Officer, Group Risk Director, Director Regulatory Risk are maintained so as to disclose at any time, and with reasonable and Compliance and the Group Chief Auditor are regular attendees.
accuracy, the financial position of the Group.
They are also responsible Other members of executive management are also invited to attend for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and to from time to time.
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Principal duties They must present financial statements for each financial year which The Committees principal duties are as follows: give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group To coordinate and have oversight of the Groups financial reporting and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing such financial process, statements, they are required to: To monitor compliance, Select suitable accounting policies and apply them on a consistent basis using reasonable and prudent judgement, To have oversight of internal and external audit functions, State whether or not applicable accounting standards have been To manage the systems of internal controls, followed and explain any material departures, To review all matters relating to the legal integrity of the Group, Use the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to do so.
To provide assurance on the effectiveness of the Groups risk management.
Basis of accounts The terms of reference of the Group Audit Committee, which explain The directors have satisfied themselves that the Group has adequate its role and the authority delegated to it by the Board of Directors, are resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future having available on the Companys website at www.
com or given consideration to the uncertainties and contingencies disclosed on request from the General Counsel and Group Company Secretary.
in the financial statements and have therefore prepared the financial statements on a going concern basis.
Internal audit The Group has an internal audit function, whose activities and Internal controls effectiveness are monitored and reviewed by the Committee.
The The Board reviews annually the effectiveness of the Groups system Committee is responsible for approving the appointment and removal of internal controls in order to safeguard the Groups assets and of the Group Chief Auditor, and for ensuring that adequate access to shareholders investment.
This system includes governance, financial information and resources is given to the holder of that position.
controls, the risk management framework and operational, regulatory and compliance requirements.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 43 External auditors are not satisfied with the local management response.
They can raise The Committee meets regularly with internal and external auditors their concerns with the Group Chief Auditor, who will either investigate without management present.
The partner of the Groups external auditors or arrange for an investigation of the matter.
Employees are offered who is responsible for the audit is invited to attend all meetings.
Each year, such safeguards and support as may be necessary to protect their the Committee considers the performance of the external auditors prior personal integrity and, where possible, identity.
to a resolution on their reappointment and remuneration at the AGM.
Report of the Nomination Committee During the year,  LLP were, on a number of Membership occasions, engaged as advisors.
In order to maintain their independence, The membership of the Committee and the attendance record of such appointments are only made in accordance with a protocol directors in 2005 are shown in the table below.
The Committee met developed by the Board available on the Companys website.
This three times during 2005. gives guidance to businesses within the Group on the appropriateness Principal duties of engaging the Groups external auditors as advisors and sets down The Committees principal duties are to review the structure, size and the procedures to be followed to authorise such an engagement.
The composition of the Board and to evaluate the directors skills, knowledge Committee is satisfied that this protocol has been followed and there are and experience.
It has access to external recruitment consultants in no matters that would compromise the independence of the auditors or order to help fill any vacancies.
The Committee considers the leadership affect the performance of their statutory duties.
 needs and succession planning of the Board when making decisions LLP have also considered their position and have confirmed their on new appointments.
Resolutions to reappoint directors at an AGM independence to the Company in writing.
are not proposed automatically, but are subject to the approval of the The Board has accepted the Committees recommendation that Board, taking into account the recommendations of the Committee.
a resolution be put to the 2006 AGM for the reappointment of The terms of reference of the Committee, which explains its role and  LLP as external auditors.
the authority delegated to it by the directors, are available on the Whistleblowing Companys website at www.
com or on request It is the Committees responsibility to keep the procedures laid out in from the General Counsel and Group Company Secretary.
The terms the Group whistleblowing policy under review.
This policy deals with and conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors will be employees who wish to raise serious concerns in good faith, and either available for inspection at the AGM.
do not feel comfortable raising the matter with local management or Board and board committee membership and attendance in 2005 Directors attending Board and board committees during 2005 was: Board Board Group Audit Investment Nomination Remuneration Notes meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings in the year 4 1257237 George Culmer 12 5 1 Noel Harwerth 12 7 2 Andy Haste 12 5 2 Edward Lea 12 7 2 6 Malcolm Le May 7 2 5 John Maxwell 11 6236 Bridget McIntyre 2 2 John Napier 3 12 423 3 David Paige 1 11 2 Chairman of the Board or board committee Notes 1.
John Napier attended three meetings of the Remuneration Committee and four meetings of the Group Audit Committee by invitation.
In addition to attendance as above, Andy Haste and other executive directors regularly attend, by invitation, meetings of the Group Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee.
By order of the directors Mark R Chambers General Counsel and Group Company Secretary London 8 March 2006 Royal & SunAlliance 44 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Remuneration Report The following report by the Remuneration Committee the Committee The Committee also considers and advises the Board on the Groups has been approved by the Board for submission to shareholders at the broader remuneration policy in relation to senior executives reporting 2006 AGM.
to the Group CEO the Executive Team.
Overview Members of the Committee have no personal financial interest, other The emphasis of the Committees work during 2005 has been on further than as shareholders, in the Committees decisions and they have no strengthening the link between performance and reward as part of our conflicts of interest arising from cross directorships.
strategic drive to reinforce a performance culture across the Group.
In constitution and operation the Committee complies fully with the A major focus in 2005 has been the review of long term incentive Combined Code as appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing provision, resulting in the development of the 2006 Long Term Incentive Authority.
A key element of the 2006 Plan which Membership shareholders are being asked to approve at the 2006 AGM will be a During the year the directors who served on the Committee were: John stretching performance condition based on a sliding scale which ensures Maxwell Chairman, Edward Lea and Malcolm Le May.
All of the nonthat the highest levels of reward will only be delivered for exceptional executive directors on the Committee were determined by the Board to performance, measured in terms of both financial results and the be independent.
The attendance record of members in 2005 is shown returns delivered for shareholders.
Overall, the 2006 Plan has been in the table on page 43. designed to deliver broadly unchanged on target total remuneration for executive directors.
Higher levels of remuneration will only be Advisors delivered if Company performance is superior or outstanding.
In developing remuneration strategy during the year, the Committee obtained its principal advice from New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, During 2005, the Committee also completed a review of pension who provided no other services to the Company during 2005. provision in the light of changing UK pensions legislation, in particular the Finance Act 2004.
In summary, our responses to the changes are: The terms of engagement for the remuneration consultants for 2006 are available to shareholders on request and on the Royal & SunAlliance We will not compensate executives who are affected by the new website www.
taxation limits effective as from 6 April 2006 A Day, The Group CEO is invited to attend all meetings of the Committee, We have implemented a communications programme designed to except when his own remuneration is being discussed, to inform the ensure that executives are equipped to plan their own retirement in Committee on company strategy and performance and senior executive the context of the new regime, pay strategy.
The Group Human Resources Director normally attends We have decided that, if any UK based executive can demonstrate meetings to provide information on wider remuneration strategy and that he or she has accumulated approved pension benefits worth 80% practice within the Group.
The Group Chairman is invited to attend or more of the new Lifetime Allowance, we will consider permitting that meetings as appropriate.
executive to take Company pension contributions in the form of a Remuneration policy principles taxable cash allowance, adjusted so that the cash alternative is cost The key principles which underpin the Committees remuneration policy are: neutral to the Company.
No executive director is currently expected to qualify for this cash alternative.
Total remuneration is set at a level which enables the recruitment, retention and motivation of high quality executive talent, Our policy in respect of pension benefits for executive directors has not changed and is set out below.
There is a strong and visible link between remuneration and performance, The Committee is accountable to shareholders through its annual Executive remuneration and shareholder interests are strongly aligned, remuneration report which is voted on at the AGM, and remains Incentive arrangements are leveraged so that only exceptional committed to reflecting the interests of shareholders and the pursuit performance attracts the highest level of reward, of best practice in remuneration policy.
The Committee welcomes and values its ongoing dialogue with shareholders on remuneration policy.
A balance of short and long term performance measures is used, incorporating measures of financial performance, delivery of The Remuneration Committee shareholder value and a robust assessment of personal contribution, The Committees responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference which are available to shareholders on request and on the Royal & Remuneration policy and practice is transparent to shareholders.
These include: Elements of remuneration Determining the terms and conditions and remuneration of the Remuneration for executive directors in 2006 will consist of five principal Chairman, and the terms and conditions and remuneration of the elements, of which only base salary is pensionable.
executive directors, Base salary, Overseeing the operation of the Companys share based long term Annual performance bonus delivered as cash and Deferred Shares, incentive schemes, including approving the value and timing of awards and overseeing the operation of performance conditions.
Conditional awards of Matching Shares, Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 45 Conditional awards of Performance Shares, Above inflation increases for executive directors in 2005, where given, reflect a strong business year and the strength of individual contributions.
Pension provision and other benefits.
The next review date for base salaries is April 2006.
Recognising that base Subject to shareholder approval at the 2006 AGM.
salaries are now generally competitive, 2006 increases are expected to be broadly in line with market movements in Boardroom pay.
This structure will be replicated for other members of the Executive Team.
The following table sets out the base salaries of UK based executives The proposed balance between fixed and variable elements of annual below Board level on a banded basis as at 31 December 2005.
No direct compensation for executive directors for on target and maximum such executive received a base salary in excess of 375,000. performance is as follows: Base salary range Number of employees On target 250,001 and over 2 200,001 250,000 9 150,001 200,000 10 LTI 27% Bonus 24% Annual performance bonus Salary 49% The executive directors and members of the Executive Team participate in an annual performance bonus plan.
As in 2005, if stretching business and personal targets are met, participants receive a cash bonus of up to 50% of base salary, and Deferred Shares worth up to 16.5% of base salary.
For outstanding performance, a cash Maximum bonus of up to 100% of base salary and Deferred Shares worth up to 33% of base salary are achievable.
The Deferred Shares will normally vest after three years provided the executive remains in employment with the Company.
Total annual bonus potential will therefore be LTI 60% capped at 133% of base salary, as in 2005.
Under the 2006 Plan, Bonus 20% an award of Matching Shares will be made on a pro rata basis to the Salary 20% Deferred Shares.
From 2006, executives will also be offered the opportunity to voluntarily invest up to a further 33% of their cash bonus into Deferred Shares, although the Committee reserves the right to reduce permissible investment below this level.
For the purposes of the charts, the LTI element shows the present value of the projected gain arising from one years awards under the 2006 Plan after three years.
The The majority of the annual bonus is determined by business valuation incorporates assumptions about share price movements and the Companys performance, measured against Combined Operating Ratio COR performance against conditions, and reflects policy on the scale of initial awards.
targets for each of the Groups core businesses.
Due to the particular Base salary nature of the business portfolio in the US, a special suite of metrics has Base salaries for executive directors and members of the Executive been developed for this business incorporating the underwriting result, Team are set on appointment with reference to market data.
The the effectiveness of claims management, expense control, and asset Committees policy is to relate base salary to the median level for and liability management.
COR is the preferred measure for our core equivalent roles in similar companies facing similar levels of complexity businesses as it is the single indicator which most fully captures the and challenge in the UK and internationally.
In the UK, the comparator underlying strength and performance of an insurance business.
group most frequently used is a sample of financial services companies within the FTSE 100.
Base salaries are reviewed annually on the basis The balance of the annual bonus is determined following a structured of market movements and an assessment of the performance of the assessment of each executives performance against detailed and executive.
The 2005 salary review process resulted in the following specific personal objectives.
Objectives typically include financial, increases for executive directors: customer, risk management, compliance, people management and business improvement targets.
The Committee reviews and signs off Andy Haste, Group CEO, received an increase of 10% taking his base executive directors objectives early in the financial year.
The Group salary to 770,000 as at 31 December 2005, CEOs performance is assessed annually by the Group Chairman and George Culmer, Chief Financial Officer, received an increase of 10.5% members of the Committee.
The Group CEO carries out a similar taking his base salary to 420,000 as at 31 December 2005, assessment for each of his direct reports, subject to review and sign off by the Committee in the case of executive directors.
Assessments David Paige, Group Risk Director, joined the Group in February 2005 also take account of appropriate leadership style.
and received an interim increase of 3% effective 1 August 2005, Bonuses paid to executive directors in respect of performance year taking his base salary to 340,000 as at 31 December 2005, 2005 are included in the table of directors emoluments on page 49.
Bridget McIntyre, UK Chief Executive, joined the Group in November These reflect the strength of business results in 2005.
2005 on a base salary of 350,000: no review of her salary was required during 2005.
Royal & SunAlliance 46 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Remuneration Report continued UK based executives who are members of the global Top 100 group Shares may not be withdrawn and will normally vest three years from the Top 100 participate in a bonus plan which is structured in the same the date of grant subject to continued employment with the Group.
way and measured using the same metrics as the plan described above.
In addition, from 2006 executives may invest an additional portion For outstanding performance a cash bonus of up to 65% of base salary of bonus in Deferred Shares on a voluntary basis.
Voluntarily Deferred and Deferred Shares worth up to 33% of the cash bonus are achievable.
Shares are not at risk of forfeiture and may be withdrawn at any time but the right to Matching Shares would lapse on those Deferred Long term incentive plans Shares withdrawn.
In 2005, awards of executive share options were made under the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS to executive directors and Matching Shares other senior managers outside the US.
Following the 2005 review of Executives may receive a conditional award of Matching Shares pro long term incentive provision, it is intended that regular awards under rata to the number of Deferred Shares held.
The maximum matching the ESOS will be discontinued from 2006 and will be replaced with ratio for Matching Shares:Deferred Shares will be 2.5:1, calculated on awards under the 2006 Plan.
The ESOS will, however, remain available the gross value of the bonus invested in Deferred Shares.
At threshold for use in exceptional circumstances, such as executive recruitment.
performance the matching ratio will be 0.625:1.
Details of the performance condition proposed for the first grant are provided below.
In 2005, awards were also made under the Share Matching Plan the 2004 Plan, which was approved by shareholders at the 2004 AGM.
Executive directors, members of the Executive Team and the Top 100 The 2004 Plan was designed to operate for two financial years only: will be eligible for awards of Matching Shares.
awards granted in 2005 were therefore the final awards under the Matching Shares will vest after three years subject to performance against 2004 Plan.
the performance condition see below and provided the individual 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan the 2006 Plan remains in employment with the Group other than in exceptional The 2006 Plan will be submitted for shareholder approval at the 2006 circumstances such as death or retirement at normal retirement age.
AGM and will be the primary long term incentive plan, replacing the Awards under the Plan will be funded through a combination of new expired 2004 Plan and executive share options as outlined above.
issue and shares purchased in the market.
Full details of the 2006 Plan have been circulated to shareholders in the AGM Notice.
The key features of the 2006 Plan and the policies Performance conditions associated with its operation are summarised below.
The Committee will determine the performance condition for each grant of Performance Shares and Matching Shares, with performance Performance Shares measured over a single period of three years with no provision to retest.
Participants may receive a conditional award of shares with the grant In 2006, grants of Performance Shares and Matching Shares related level and performance condition determined by the Committee prior to non voluntarily Deferred Shares will be subject to a performance to each grant.
Executive directors, members of the Executive Team condition consisting of a combination of Return on Equity ROE and and the Top 100 will be eligible for awards of Performance Shares.
Total Shareholder Return TSR targets.
These are set out below: It is intended that, in 2006, awards of Performance Shares to executive 50% of the shares comprising the award will vest according to directors will be limited to a maximum face value of 100% of base salary, nominal ROE performance.
If underlying average annual ROE over other than in exceptional circumstances.
Awards of Performance Shares three years commencing with the financial year of grant is below to members of the Executive Team in 2006 will be limited to a maximum 10%, no part of the award subject to the ROE performance condition face value of 80% of base salary, other than in exceptional circumstances.
If underlying average annual ROE over three years is 10%, Account will be taken of personal performance in determining the 25% of the award will vest.
If underlying average annual ROE over scale of the award to each executive.
For executives below this level, three years is 16%, 100% of the award will vest.
Vesting will be on a distribution policy will normally be based on a formula which relates straight line basis in between.
Underlying ROE will exclude items of an the size of award to performance and potential, as measured through exceptional nature which in the view of the Committee do not reflect the annual performance appraisal process.
the underlying performance of the business.
Underlying ROE will be In any year, the face value of Performance Shares granted to any measured in respect of the Core Group, excluding US operations, individual will be limited to 150% of base salary in normal circumstances 50% of the shares comprising the award will vest according to TSR subject to an overriding cap of 250% of base salary in exceptional performance against a comparator group of UK and International circumstances such as an executive recruitment.
Below median performance, no part Performance Shares will vest after three years subject to performance of the award subject to the TSR performance condition will vest.
At against the performance condition see below and provided the individual median performance, 25% of the award will vest.
At upper quintile remains in employment with the Group other than in exceptional top 20%, 100% of the award will vest.
Vesting will be on a straight circumstances such as death or retirement at normal retirement age.
line basis in between, Deferred Shares Additionally, before any share subject to the TSR condition vests, the As described in the annual performance bonus section above, executive Committee must be satisfied that the Companys TSR performance is directors, members of the Executive Team and the Top 100 may be reflective of underlying financial performance, granted Deferred Shares as part of annual bonus.
These Deferred Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 47 The comparator group will consist of the following companies: Aegon, above the cap.
In 2006 he will be paid an allowance of 27% of base AGF, Alleanza, Allianz, Aviva, AXA, Baloise, Fortis, Generali, Legal & salary for this purpose.
General, Munich Re, QBE, Swiss Re and Zurich Financial Services.
Until 31 December 2005, George Culmer participated in a contributory The Groups TSR will be independently calculated and verified by defined contribution occupational pension scheme the Royal & the Committee for the purposes of the 2006 Plan.
From 1 January 2006 this The vesting of Matching Shares related to voluntarily Deferred Shares scheme was replaced by the Royal & SunAlliance Stakeholder Pension will be determined solely by the ROE performance condition.
Plan the Stakeholder Plan, a contributory defined contribution stakeholder pension scheme.
George Culmer became a member ROE has been selected as the measure of financial performance as it is of the Stakeholder Plan from 1 January 2006.
In 2006 he will receive a key measure of overall business performance which is used internally employer contributions worth 15% of base salary, subject to an by the Company and is also visible externally to shareholders.
employee contribution of 5% of base salary up to Inland Revenue The TSR performance condition has been designed to provide contribution limits as applicable.
Additionally, following a review of alignment between executive remuneration and shareholder interests the market competitiveness of his pension benefits, the Committee and to ensure that an element of the package is linked directly to share decided to provide George Culmer with a taxable cash allowance of price performance.
The comparator group has been selected to ensure 15% of base salary, in order to bring his overall pension provision that performance is compared fairly against a group of similar companies closer to the market median.
operating in a similar competitive environment.
David Paige elected not to join a Royal & SunAlliance pension plan The use of ROE and TSR in combination provides a balanced approach on appointment and instead receives a taxable cash allowance of to the measurement of Company performance over the longer term.
17.5% of base salary, in order to enable him to make his own provision for retirement.
Equity Incentive Scheme for US Employees In 2000 shareholders approved an alternative share option scheme Bridget McIntyre joined the Group on 1 November 2005 and was for US managers based on US market practice.
Grants of options over enrolled in the Stakeholder Plan as from 1 January 2006.
In 2006 American Depositary Receipts ADRs are made no more than twice she will receive employer contributions worth 15% of base salary, a year.
subject to an employee contribution of 5% of base salary up to Inland Revenue contribution limits as applicable.
Additionally, Dilution Bridget McIntyre receives a taxable cash allowance of 15% of base Dilution levels for all schemes are held strictly within ABI limits 10% salary, in order to bring her overall pension provision closer to the over 10 years for all schemes and 5% for discretionary schemes.
Share ownership guidelines In addition, the executive directors participate in a number of benefits Strengthened share ownership guidelines were introduced in 2004 available to other senior managers including life assurance at the for executive directors and members of the Executive Team.
rate of four times base salary, sickness and ill health early retirement The Group CEO is required to build and maintain a minimum shareholding benefits and private medical insurance.
They also have a choice in the Company equivalent to 150% of base salary.
The other executive between a company car and a monthly cash car allowance.
In common directors have a target of 100% of base salary and other members of with other employees, the executive directors are eligible to participate the Executive Team have a target of 50% of base salary.
In order to in the Royal & Sun Alliance International Sharesave SAYE Plan.
ensure that progress is made towards this target, executives are required Service contracts to retain shares to a value of 50% of the net of tax gain under all executive The Committees policy on service contracts is that they should be schemes until the relevant guideline is attained.
This requirement will subject to a maximum notice period of one year.
Generally in the event apply to awards under the 2006 Plan, and will continue to apply to of termination and in all cases of termination on performance grounds awards under all existing long term incentive plans.
the Committees policy would be to seek and apply mitigation.
Pension and other benefits Andy Hastes service contract commenced on 2 April 2003 and Andy Haste is a member of the SAL Pension Scheme SAL, a he was appointed as a director of the Group on the same date.
His contributory defined benefit occupational pension scheme.
In contract expires under normal circumstances in January 2024 unless common with all other members of the Royal & SunAlliance defined terminated earlier by the Company or by Andy Haste on 12 months benefit occupational pension schemes, from 1 January 2006 Andy notice.
Exceptionally, when he was appointed, the Committee agreed Hastes future benefits within SAL will accrue on a Career Average that, in the event of termination other than on grounds of gross Revalued Earnings CARE basis rather than on a final salary basis.
misconduct, he would be entitled, within the first three years following Royal & SunAlliance has decided to retain a cap within its defined his appointment or within two years of a change of control occurring benefits schemes after A Day and, accordingly, Andy Hastes benefit before the third anniversary of his appointment, to liquidated damages accrual will continue to be calculated by reference to a capped salary equal to one years base salary, plus the average of any annual bonuses which will be measured each year in line with past practice.
In addition paid during the previous two years and one years pension contributions to his benefits within SAL, Andy Haste receives an age related taxable and other taxable benefits.
This arrangement lapses on 2 April 2006. cash allowance to enable him to make his own provision for retirement Royal & SunAlliance 48 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Remuneration Report continued Total shareholder return for Royal & SunAlliance and FTSE World Europe Insurance Index 100 Royal & SunAlliance Index Performance over the 12 months to 31 December 2005 FTSE World Europe Insurance Index 180 80 160 60 140 40 12 0 100 20 31 Dec 31 Dec 2004 2005 0 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 George Culmers service contract commenced on 1 May 2004 and The fee for chairing the Investment Committee was set at 12,500pa.
he was appointed as a director of the Group on the same date.
David Additionally, a fee of 5,000pa was introduced for any non-executive Paiges service contract commenced on 1 February 2005 and he was director sitting on more than one committee but not acting as Chair of appointed as a director of the Group on 16 February 2005.
These fee rates will be unchanged for 2006.
McIntyres service contract commenced on 1 November 2005 and The Committee determines the Group Chairmans remuneration.
The she was appointed as a director of the Group on 2 November 2005. fee payable to John Napier in respect of his appointment as Chairman The service contracts for George Culmer, David Paige and Bridget of the Company effective 17 March 2003 was increased effective McIntyre terminate under normal circumstances in October 2024, 1 January 2006 from 250,000 to 325,000pa in order to reflect July 2013 and July 2023 respectively unless terminated earlier by market movements and also to reflect the complexity and challenge of the Company or by the individual on 12 months notice.
John Napiers letter of appointment was effective 9 January 2003 External directorships and the term of his appointment was initially three years: it has now been Where appropriate, the Group encourages directors and other extended until 31 December 2008.
No further review of John Napiers senior managers to accept, subject to the approval of the Group fees is anticipated during the current term of his appointment.
The Chairman and the Group CEO, an invitation to join the Board of appointment may be terminated by the Chairman on three months another company in a non-executive capacity, recognising the notice to the Company.
value of such wider experience.
In these circumstances, managers Edward Lea and John Maxwell have letters of appointment effective are permitted to retain the remuneration from the non-executive from 10 July 2003: Noel Harwerth and Malcolm Le May have letters of appointment.
For executive directors and other members of the appointment effective from 30 March 2004.
These letters of appointment Executive Team, external appointments are limited to one.
all request one months notice should the non-executive director wish Non-executive directors to resign.
All non-executive directors of the Company have letters of Historical TSR performance appointment which set out the terms and conditions of their The main graph above is included in the report of the Committee as appointment.
Non-executive directors are not entitled to bonus a requirement of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985. payments or pension arrangements, nor do they participate in the Groups long term incentive plans.
The graph shows the TSR of the Group with reference to the FTSE World Europe Insurance Index.
The FTSE World Europe Insurance Under the Groups Articles of Association, the remuneration paid Index comprises the range of European insurance businesses which to non-executive directors is determined by the Board, within limits most closely match our competitor group, and the TSR comparator set by shareholders.
Prior to 2005, non-executive directors fees group selected for 2006 awards under the 2006 Plan.
TSR performance had remained unchanged for five years.
In 2005, following a review relative to the index is shown over the five years from 31 December of market practice for similar roles in FTSE 100 companies, the fee 2000 to 31 December 2005. structure for non-executive directors was revised to reflect market movements and also to reflect the increased responsibility and time The inset graph shows the TSR of the Group with reference to the commitment involved in carrying out non-executive duties, including same index over the 12 month period ending 31 December 2005. chairing and participating in Board Committees.
The basic fee for a TSR reflects the change in value of ordinary shares in a company over non-executive director was increased from 35,000 to 45,000pa.
time, as represented by the evolution of a notional initial investment The additional fee for chairing the Group Audit Committee was increased of 100 in the shares and including any distribution of dividends.
from 10,000 to 20,000pa and the additional fee for chairing the Remuneration Committee was increased from 10,000 to 12,500pa.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 49 Directors Emoluments Remuneration audited part Remuneration for the year ended 31 December was as follows: Base salary Allowances Total Total and fees and benefits Bonuses 2005 2004 Notes 000 000 000 000 000 Executive directors 1, 2 George Culmer 3 410 78 361 849 691 Andy Haste 4 770 245 739 1,754 1,591 Bridget McIntyre appointed 2 November 2005 5 58 478 536 David Paige appointed 16 February 2005 6 307 420 190 917 Non-executive directors Noel Harwerth 50 50 27 Edward Lea 65 65 45 Malcolm Le May 58 58 27 John Maxwell 58 58 45 John Napier 250 250 250 Directors who left during 2004 Bob Ayling 21 Julian Hance 145 Stephen Hill 9 Susan Hooper 9 Notes: 1.
Directors who were appointed during the year were paid their base salary pro rata.
2005 bonuses were calculated as described in the Remuneration Report on page 45.
In 2005 a maximum cash bonus of 100% of salary was achievable.
George Culmer received an annual performance bonus of 361,200 in respect of performance year 2005.
His allowances include 15% of basic salary as a retirement allowance, paid monthly with effect from 1 April 2005.
During 2005 the amount paid was 47,000.
He also received car benefits worth 28,000 and medical and life assurance benefits worth 3,000.
Andy Haste received an annual performance bonus of 739,200 in respect of performance year 2005.
His allowances include an age related percentage of basic salary as a retirement allowance, paid monthly.
During 2005 the allowance was 26% and the amount paid was 200,000.
He also received car benefits worth 39,000 and medical and life assurance benefits worth 6,000.
Bridget McIntyres salary was for two months of the year, following her appointment in November 2005.
She did not receive an annual performance bonus in respect of performance year 2005.
Her allowances include 15% of basic salary as a retirement allowance, paid monthly.
During 2005, the amount paid was 9,000.
Her allowances also include 107,000 as compensation for a bonus lost on leaving her prior employment and 359,000 as compensation for long term incentives lost on leaving her prior employment.
She also received car, medical and life assurance benefits worth 3,000.
David Paiges salary was for 11 months of the year, following his appointment in February 2005.
He received an annual performance bonus of 190,400 in respect of performance year 2005.
His allowances include 17.5% of basic salary as a retirement allowance, paid monthly.
During 2005, the amount paid was 54,000.
His allowances also include 165,000 as compensation for a bonus lost on leaving his prior employment and 185,000 as compensation for long term incentives lost on leaving his prior employment.
He also received car benefits worth 13,000 and medical and life assurance benefits worth 3,000.
Royal & SunAlliance 50 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Directors Emoluments continued Pension benefits audited part Non-executive directors are not entitled to any pension benefits.
The pension benefits earned by the executive directors, as members of Group defined benefit schemes, were as follows: Transfer value Transfer value Difference in Total accrued of total accrued of total accrued transfer values Change in pension at pension at pension at less members accrued pension 31 December 31 December 31 December contribution in year 2005 2005 2004 note 1 Andy Haste 1,864 4,840 48,225 25,254 17,736 Notes: 1.
The difference in transfer values reflects the difference between the two transfer values calculated using relevant information on the respective dates and is not necessarily the actuarial increase of the underlying pension.
The figures set out in the table above provide information as required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The Listing Rules require the change in accrued pension to be shown excluding the effects of inflation and the transfer value of this increase.
These figures are shown in the notes below.
The accrued pension figures shown are the annual amounts of members pension payable from normal retirement age.
Increases to pensions when in payment are applied in accordance with the relevant scheme rules.
On the death of the member leaving a surviving spouse and or children, spouses and or childrens pensions are payable in accordance with scheme rules.
The benefits shown above in respect of Andy Haste relate to his membership of a defined benefit pension scheme up to the earnings cap.
For Andy Haste the increase in his accrued pension during the year, excluding the effects of inflation, was 1,783pa and the transfer value in respect of this less his contributions was 12,531 at 31 December 2005.
Andy Haste is required to contribute to the scheme and also has the option of paying Additional Voluntary Contributions AVCs.
Neither voluntary contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the table.
Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with the guidance note GN11 published by the UK Institute of Actuaries and Faculty of Actuaries.
The transfer value of the accrued benefits represent the value of assets that the pension scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the schemes liability in respect of Andy Hastes pension benefits.
The transfer values do not represent sums payable or due to Andy Haste.
The Company contributions paid in respect of executive directors who are members of Group defined contribution schemes, were as follows: Company Company contributions contributions paid in 2005 paid in 2004 George Culmer 61,500 38,000 George Culmer joined the Group in May 2004: he therefore received contributions in respect of eight months service in 2004.
Bridget McIntyre joined the Group in November 2005.
Because of changes being made to the Groups pension arrangements, no contributions have been paid into the Royal & SunAlliance UK Pension Scheme 2002 in respect of November and December 2005.
These contributions will be paid into the Royal & SunAlliance Stakeholder Pension Plan which was set up on 1 January 2006.
The contributions paid into the new scheme in 2006 will be reported next year but are expected to include 8,750 in respect of Company contributions payable in respect of November and December 2005.
David Paige is not a member of any Royal & SunAlliance pension scheme.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 51 Directors Interests Shareholdings non audited part The interests of directors in ordinary shares of 27.5p each of the Company, as declared and recorded in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, are as follows: Shares held at Shares held at 1 January 31 December 2005 Notes 2005 or on appointment Executive directors George Culmer 1 100,819 34,843 Andy Haste 1 666,076 258,910 Bridget McIntyre appointed 2 November 2005 1 David Paige appointed 16 February 2005 1 31,167 Non-executive directors Noel Harwerth 2 34,000 34,000 Edward Lea 241,128 116,128 Malcolm Le May John Maxwell 252,044 140,046 John Napier 290,605 275,174 Notes: 1.
In addition to the interests shown above, the directors indicated, in common with the employees, had a beneficial interest as at 31 December 2005 in 4,938,894 2004 3,038,894 ordinary shares of 27.5p each held in the Royal & SunAlliance ESOP Trust No 2.
Noel Harwerths shares are held in the form of 6,800 American Depositary Receipts ADRs.
One ADR represents five ordinary shares.
On 8 March 2006, the directors interests remained unchanged.
Options audited part Movements in option holdings during 2005 were as follows: Options held at 1 January Options held at 2005 Options granted Options exercised Options lapsed 31 December Notes or on appointment during the year during the year during the year 2005 George Culmer 1, 2, 3 ESOS 981,012 1,013,306 1,994,318 SAYE 12,466 12,466 Andy Haste 1, 2, 3 ESOS 5,715,705 1,857,728 7,573,433 SAYE 16,560 7,298 23,858 Bridget McIntyre appointed 2 November 2005 1, 3 ESOS 301,724 301,724 SAYE David Paige appointed 16 February 2005 1, 2, 3 ESOS 1,007,796 1,007,796 SAYE 12,466 12,466 Options granted following the AGM in May 2003 are potentially exercisable if, at the end of the period of three business years starting with the business year in which the options were granted, the Group has achieved a Return on Capital ROC of at least 6% per annum after inflation and excluding items of an exceptional nature which in the view of the Committee do not reflect the underlying performance of the business when averaged over the period.
One retest is allowed at the end of the fourth business year, but if the performance criterion has not been met over the full four year period, the options lapse.
Options granted between September 1998 and May 2003 are also subject to a performance condition that the Group must achieve a ROC of at least 6% after inflation and excluding items of an exceptional nature which in the view of the Committee do not reflect the underlying performance of the business when averaged over a consecutive three year period, but if the measure is not satisfied at the end of the third business year following the date of grant, the test can be repeated on an annual basis over the 10 year life of the option.
Options granted between October 1996 and September 1998 were subject to a different performance condition linked to TSR.
For options to be eligible for exercise, the Groups TSR has to be at or above the median of companies in the FTSE 100 index over a consecutive period of three years, between the year of grant and the completion of the 10 year life of the option.
The test is conducted twice per year, at the end of March and September, by independent external specialists.
Options granted prior to October 1996 were not subject to performance conditions.
None of the terms or conditions of any of the existing options over shares of the Group were varied during the year.
Full details of all directors shareholdings and options to subscribe for shares are recorded in the Groups Register of Directors Interests which is open to inspection in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
The official closing middle market price at its highest during the year was 126.75p per share and at its lowest was 73.50p per share: on the last dealing day of the year it was 125.75p per share.
Options granted to directors on 8 April 2005, 18 August 2005 and 13 December 2005 under the ESOS scheme were granted at exercise prices of 80.0p, 93.0p and 116.0p respectively.
These exercise prices were not less than the average of middle market quotations for the shares of the Group on the five business days prior to the date of grant.
On 13 September 2005, SAYE options were granted at an exercise price of 75.0p.
All of the above options were granted for nil consideration.
Long term incentive scheme audited part Long term incentive scheme interests held during 2005 in respect of the ordinary shares of the Company are as follows: Share awards Share awards held at Share awards held at 1 January granted during 31 December Date by which qualifying Notes 2005 2005 2005 conditions must be fulfilled George Culmer 2, 3 Deferred Share awards 128,938 128,938 08.04.08 Matching Share awards 386,814 386,814 08.04.08 Andy Haste 2, 3 Deferred Share awards 197,046 265,136 462,182 14.06.07 08.04.08 Matching Share awards 591,138 795,408 1,386,546 14.06.07 08.04.08 David Paige 2, 3 Deferred Share awards 65,100 65,100 08.04.08 Matching Share awards 195,300 195,300 08.04.08 Notes: 1.
No other directors of the Company held long term incentive scheme interests during 2005.
The market price of ordinary shares on 14 June 2004 and 08 June 2005, the dates on which the above long term incentive scheme interests were granted, were 79.25p and 77.62p respectively.
Matching Share awards are capable of vesting in respect of a maximum of three times the number of Deferred Shares awarded, subject to the achievement of TSR targets over a single two year period.
TSR performance is measured relative to other companies specified by the Remuneration Committee.
For awards granted in 2004 and 2005, TSR will be measured partly relative to FTSE 100 companies and partly relative to the following financial services comparator group companies: Aegon, Legal & General Group, Allianz Group, Old Mutual, AXA, Prudential, Aviva, RAS, Generali and Zurich Financial Services Group.
For 50% of the Matching Share awards, where TSR is measured against the FTSE 100, full vesting will only occur at upper decile performance, vesting will occur in the ratio of shares under Matching Share awards to shares under Deferred Share awards of 2:1 at upper quartile performance and vesting in the ratio 1:1 will occur at median performance.
For the other 50% of the Matching Share awards, where TSR is measured against the financial services comparator group, full vesting will occur if TSR is highest in the comparator group, vesting in the ratio 2:1 will occur at upper quartile performance and vesting in the ratio 1:1 will occur at median performance.
Matching Share awards will not vest at below median performance.
For awards granted in 2004, the targets will be measured over the period from 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2006.
For awards granted in 2005, the targets will be measured over the period from 1 April 2005 to 31 March 2007.
The relevant TSR figures will be averaged over the three months before the beginning and end of this performance period.
Additionally, no Matching Shares will vest unless the Committee is satisfied that there has been a sustained improvement in the underlying performance of the Company over the performance period.
John Maxwell Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board London 8 March 2006 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 53 Independent auditors report to the members of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Royal & Sun We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider Alliance Insurance Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 whether it is consistent with the audited consolidated financial statements.
which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated The other information comprises only the Highlights, the Key business Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, the Consolidated information, the Chairmans statement, the Group CEOs review, the Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cashflow Statement, Estimation Royal & SunAlliance today section, the Operating and Financial techniques, uncertainties and contingencies, Significant accounting review, the Corporate Responsibility section, the Share and shareholder policies and the related notes on pages 69 to 113.
These consolidated analysis, the Directors Report, the Corporate Governance statement, financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies the Remuneration Report and the unaudited part of Directors Interests.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the consolidated We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other statements of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc for the year information.
ended and on the information in Directors Emoluments and Directors Interests that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements.
and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and the European Union are set out in the Directors Report.
judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the consolidated Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated financial statements financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information We report to you our opinion as to whether the consolidated financial in the consolidated financial statements.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the consolidated Opinion financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance In our opinion: with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not The consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, in consistent with the consolidated financial statements, if we have not accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit and or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and cashflows for the year then ended, other transactions is not disclosed.
The consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared We review whether the Corporate Governance statement reflects in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Regulation.
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the  LLP Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control London cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness 8 March 2006 of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Royal & SunAlliance 54 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2005 2005 2004 Notes m m Continuing operations Income Gross written premiums 6,420 6,655 Less: reinsurance premiums 1,020 1,573 Net written premiums 5,400 5,082 Change in the gross provision for unearned premiums 4 883 Less: change in provision for unearned premiums, reinsurers share 22 219 Change in provision for unearned premiums 18 664 Net earned premiums 5,382 5,746 Net investment return 2 806 656 Other operating income 4 111 141 Total income 6,299 6,543 Expenses Gross claims incurred 4,451 5,816 Less: claims recoveries from reinsurers 856 1,555 Net claims and benefits 3 3,595 4,261 Underwriting and policy acquisition costs 1,738 1,816 Benefit from change of pension scheme design 180 1,558 1,816 Unwind of discount 61 71 Other operating expenses 4 252 291 Total expenses 5,466 6,439 Results of operating activities 833 104 Finance costs 4 107 75 Profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries 136 2 Net share of profit after tax of associates 11 3 8 Profit before tax on continuing operations 865 35 Income tax expense 5 260 88 Profit loss for the year from continuing operations 605 53 Discontinued operations Loss for the year from discontinued operations 36 27 Profit loss for the year 605 80 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent Company 555 125 Minority interests 50 45 605 80 Earnings per share for profit loss from continuing operations attributable to the equity holders of the Parent Company Basic 6 18.9p 4.1 p Diluted 6 18.7p 4.1 p Earnings per share for loss from discontinued operations attributable to the equity holders of the Parent Company Basic 6 0.9 p Diluted 6 0.9 p Ordinary dividends paid and proposed for the year Interim dividend paid per share 7 1.69p 1.65p Final dividend proposed per share 7 3.05p 2.96p The attached notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 55 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense for the year ended 31 December 2005 2005 2004 m m Exchange gains losses 62 17 Fair value losses gains 35 21 Pension fund actuarial losses 53 50 Net losses recognised in equity 26 46 Profit loss for the year 605 80 Total recognised income expense for the year 579 126 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent Company 540 174 Minority interests 39 48 579 126 All items are stated net of tax.
The attached notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Royal & SunAlliance 56 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2005 2005 2004 Notes m m Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 8 450 322 Property and equipment 9 410 418 Investment property 10 435 417 Investments in associates 11 29 29 Financial assets 12 13,533 13,135 Total investments 13,997 13,581 Reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities 13 4,406 4,424 Insurance and reinsurance debtors 14 2,547 2,684 Deferred acquisition costs 15 465 487 Deferred tax assets 23 33 174 Other debtors and other assets 16 636 617 669 791 Cash and cash equivalents 17 1,617 1,866 24,561 24,573 Non current assets and assets of operations held for sale 36 36 81 Total assets 24,597 24,654 Equity, reserves and liabilities Equity and reserves Shareholders equity 2,743 2,321 Subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes 19 444 Minority interests 391 368 Total equity and reserves 18 3,134 3,133 Liabilities Loan capital 19 1,071 607 Insurance contract liabilities 20 17,204 17,191 Insurance and reinsurance liabilities 21 475 778 Borrowings 22 251 349 Current tax liabilities 23 55 78 Deferred tax liabilities 23 236 101 Provisions 24 693 914 Other liabilities 25 1,478 1,426 Provisions and other liabilities 2,462 2,519 21,463 21,444 Liabilities of operations held for sale 36 77 Total liabilities 21,463 21,521 Total equity, reserves and liabilities 24,597 24,654 The attached notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements were approved on 8 March 2006 by the Board of Directors and are signed on its behalf by: George Culmer Chief Financial Officer Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 57 Consolidated Cashflow Statement for the year ended 31 December 2005 2005 2004 Notes m m Cash generated from continuing operations 33 462 244 Income tax paid 65 52 Interest received paid 556 504 Dividends received 2 5 Cashflows from discontinued operations 797 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations 107 Net cashflows from operating activities 31 477 Proceeds from sales or maturities of: Available for sale investments 10,046 12,179 Investment property 46 23 Property and equipment 13 7 Intangible assets 3 8 Investments in subsidiaries net of cash disposed of 32 113 1,005 Investments in associates 5 107 Purchase of: Available for sale investments 10,058 15,906 Investment property 31 42 Property and equipment 60 111 Intangible assets 144 123 Investments in subsidiaries net of cash acquired 32 63 12 Cashflows from discontinued operations 940 Net cashflows from investing activities 130 1,925 Proceeds from issue of share capital 2 Purchase of treasury shares 3 Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders 116 107 Dividends paid to preference shareholders 9 9 Interest on subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes 10 Dividends paid to minority interests 13 12 Proceeds from issuance of long term borrowings 295 Net movement in other borrowings 86 84 Net cashflows from financing activities 225 73 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 324 2,329 Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at beginning of the year 1,864 4,254 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 72 61 Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at end of the year 17 1,612 1,864 The attached notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Royal & SunAlliance 58 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Estimation techniques, uncertainties and contingencies Introduction Large claims impacting each relevant business class are generally One of the purposes of insurance is to enable policyholders to protect assessed separately, being measured either at the face value of the themselves against uncertain future events.
Insurance companies loss adjusters estimates or projected separately in order to allow for accept the transfer of uncertainty from policyholders and seek to the future development of large claims.
add value through the aggregation and management of these risks.
Provisions are calculated gross of any reinsurance recoveries.
A separate The uncertainty inherent in insurance is inevitably reflected in the estimate is made of the amounts that will be recoverable from reinsurers financial statements of insurance companies.
The uncertainty in the based upon the gross provisions and having due regard to collectability.
financial statements principally arises in respect of the insurance The claims provisions are subject to close scrutiny both within the liabilities of the company.
Groups business units and at Group Corporate Centre.
In addition, for The insurance liabilities of an insurance company include the provision major classes where the risks and uncertainties inherent in the provisions for unearned premiums and unexpired risks and the provision for are greatest, regular and ad hoc detailed reviews are undertaken by outstanding claims.
Unearned premiums and unexpired risks represent advisers who are able to draw upon their specialist expertise and a the amount of income set aside by the company to cover the cost of broader knowledge of current industry trends in claims development.
claims that may arise during the unexpired period of risk of insurance As an example, the Groups exposure to asbestos and environmental policies in force at the Balance Sheet date.
Outstanding claims represent pollution is examined on this basis.
The results of these reviews are the companys estimate of the cost of settlement of claims that have considered when establishing the appropriate levels of provisions occurred by the Balance Sheet date but have not yet been finally settled.
for outstanding claims and unexpired periods of risk.
In addition to the inherent uncertainty of having to make provision It should be emphasised that the estimation techniques for the for future events, there is also considerable uncertainty as regards determination of insurance liabilities involve obtaining corroborative the eventual outcome of the claims that have occurred by the Balance evidence from as wide a range of sources as possible and combining Sheet date but remain unsettled.
This includes claims that may have these to form the overall estimate.
This technique means that the occurred but have not yet been notified to the company and those estimate is inevitably deterministic rather than stochastic.
A stochastic that are not yet apparent to the insured.
valuation approach, whereby a range of possible outcomes is estimated and probabilities assigned thereto, is only possible in a limited number As a consequence of this uncertainty, the insurance company needs to of situations.
apply sophisticated estimation techniques to determine the appropriate provisions.
The pension assets and pension and post retirement liabilities are calculated in accordance with International Accounting Standard 19 Estimation techniques IAS 19.
The assets, liabilities and Income Statement charge, calculated Claims and unexpired risks provisions are determined based upon in accordance with IAS 19, are sensitive to the assumptions made, previous claims experience, knowledge of events and the terms and including inflation, interest rate, investment return and mortality.
conditions of the relevant policies and on interpretation of circumstances.
Particularly relevant is experience with similar cases and historical Uncertainties and contingencies claims payment trends.
The approach also includes the consideration The uncertainty arising under insurance contracts may be characterised of the development of loss payment trends, the levels of unpaid claims, under a number of specific headings, such as: legislative changes, judicial decisions and economic conditions.
Uncertainty as to whether an event has occurred which would give Where possible the Group adopts multiple techniques to estimate the rise to a policyholder suffering an insured loss, required level of provisions.
This assists in giving greater understanding Uncertainty as to the extent of policy coverage and limits applicable, of the trends inherent in the data being projected.
The Groups estimates of losses and loss expenses are reached after a review of several Uncertainty as to the amount of insured loss suffered by a policyholder commonly accepted actuarial projection methodologies and a number as a result of the event occurring, of different bases to determine these provisions.
These include methods Uncertainty over the timing of a settlement to a policyholder for a based upon the following: loss suffered.
The development of previously settled claims, where payments to The degree of uncertainty will vary by policy class according to the date are extrapolated for each prior year, characteristics of the insured risks and the cost of a claim will be Estimates based upon a projection of claims numbers and average cost, determined by the actual loss suffered by the policyholder.
Notified claims development, where notified claims to date for each year There may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of the are extrapolated based upon observed development of earlier years, insured event and the time it is actually reported to the Group.
Following the identification and notification of an insured loss, there may still be Expected loss ratios.
uncertainty as to the magnitude and timing of the settlement of the claim.
In addition, the Group uses other methods such as the BornhuetterThere are many factors that will determine the level of uncertainty such Ferguson method, which combines features of the above methods.
The as inflation, inconsistent judicial interpretations and court judgments Group also uses bespoke methods for specialist classes of business.
In that broaden policy coverage beyond the intent of the original selecting its best estimate, the Group considers the appropriateness of insurance, legislative changes and claims handling procedures.
the methods and bases to the individual circumstances of the provision The establishment of insurance liabilities is an inherently uncertain class and underwriting year.
The process is designed to select the most process and, as a consequence of this uncertainty, the eventual cost appropriate best estimate.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 59 of settlement of outstanding claims and unexpired risks can vary Difficult issues of allocation of responsibility among potentially substantially from the initial estimates, particularly for long tail lines responsible parties and insurers, of business.
The Group seeks to provide appropriate levels of claims Complex technical issues that may give rise to delays in notification provision and provision for unexpired risks taking the known facts and arising from unresolved legal issues on policy coverage and the experience into account.
identity of the insureds, The Group has exposures to risks in each class of business within each The tendency for social trends and factors to influence jury verdicts, operating segment that may develop and that could have a material impact upon the Groups financial position in the period in which the Developments pertaining to the Groups ability to recover reinsurance development occurs.
The geographical and insurance risk diversity for claims of this nature.
within the Groups portfolio of issued insurance policies make it not Further information on specific developments in the US in relation to possible to predict whether material development will occur and, if it asbestos and environmental claims is discussed below.
does occur, the location and the timing of such an occurrence.
The estimation of insurance liabilities involves the use of judgements and Representations and warranties assumptions that are specific to the insurance risks within each territory In the course of disposal of businesses the Group provides representations and the particular type of insurance risk covered.
The diversity of the and warranties to counterparties in contracts in connection with various insurance risks results in it not being possible to identify individual transactions and may also provide indemnifications that protect the judgements and assumptions that are more likely than others to have a counterparties to the contracts in the event that certain liabilities arise material impact on the future development of the insurance liabilities.
covering such matters as tax, property, environmental issues etc.
While such representations, warranties and indemnities are essential The sections below identify a number of specific risks relating to asbestos components of many contractual relationships, they do not represent and environmental claims and to insurance risks remaining within the the underlying purpose for the transaction.
These clauses are customary Groups discontinuing US operations.
There may be other classes of risk in such contracts and may from time to time lead to us receiving claims that are not specifically identified below, which could develop in the future from counterparties.
and that could have a material impact on the Groups financial position during the period in which the development occurs.
Financial enhancement products In the UK and US the Group has exposures to financial enhancement The Group evaluates the concentration of exposures to individual and products, which provide surety to banks, lending institutions and credit cumulative insurance risk and establishes its reinsurance policy to reduce facilities that insure principal and interest repayment on debt securities.
such exposure to levels acceptable to the Group.
The Group no longer writes such business: however, the nature of such Asbestos and environmental claims contracts is normally that the Group is on risk for more than one year and The estimation of the provisions for the ultimate cost of claims for asbestos therefore liabilities remain for an extended period.
Further information and environmental pollution is subject to a range of uncertainties that is on financial enhancement products in the US is discussed below.
generally greater than those encountered for other classes of insurance Litigation, mediation and arbitration business.
As a result it is not possible to determine the future development The Group, in common with the insurance industry in general, is subject of asbestos and environmental claims with the same degree of reliability to litigation, mediation and arbitration, and regulatory and other sectoral as with other types of claims, particularly in periods when theories of law inquiries in the normal course of its business.
The directors do not believe are in flux.
Consequently, traditional techniques for estimating claims that any current mediation, arbitration, regulatory or sectoral inquiries provisions cannot wholly be relied upon and the Group employs and pending or threatened litigation or dispute, as outlined elsewhere specialised techniques to determine provisions using the extensive in this note, will have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial knowledge of both internal asbestos and environmental pollution experts position, although there can be no assurance that losses resulting from and external legal and professional advisors.
any pending mediation, arbitration, regulatory inquiries and threatened Factors contributing to this higher degree of uncertainty include: litigation or dispute will not materially affect the Groups financial position or cashflows for any period.
Further information on US litigation is Plaintiffs expanding theories of liability, compounded by inconsistent discussed below.
court decisions and judicial interpretations, Reinsurance A few large claims, accompanied by a very large number of small The Group is exposed to disputes on, and defects in, contracts with its claims or claims made with no subsequent payment, often driven reinsurers and the possibility of default by its reinsurers.
The Group is also by intensive advertising by lawyers seeking claimants, exposed to the credit risk assumed in fronting arrangements.
In selecting The tendency for speculative, inflated and or unsupported claims the reinsurers with whom we do business our strategy is to seek reinsurers to be made to insurers, with the aim of securing a settlement on with the best combination of credit rating, price and capacity.
advantageous terms, We publish internally a list of authorised reinsurers who pass our The long delay in reporting claims and exposures, since the onset selection process and which our operations may use for new transactions.
of illness and disability arising from exposure to harmful conditions The Group monitors the financial strength of its reinsurers, including may only become apparent many years later for example, cases those to whom risks are no longer ceded.
Allowance is made in the of mesothelioma can have a latent period of up to 40 years, financial position for non recoverability due to reinsurer default by Inadequate development patterns, requiring operations to provide, in line with Group standards, having regard to companies on the Groups Watch List.
The Watch List is the Royal & SunAlliance 60 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Estimation techniques, uncertainties and contingencies continued list of companies whom the directors believe will not be able to pay asbestos was present.
There are also increasing signs of attempts to amounts due to the Group in full.
reopen and reclassify into other insurance coverages previously settled claims, and the filing of claims under the non aggregate premises or Changes in foreign exchange rates may impact our results operations section of general liability policies.
There are also indications We publish our consolidated financial statements in pounds sterling.
that plaintiffs may seek damages by asserting that insurers had a duty Therefore, fluctuations in exchange rates used to translate other to protect the public from the dangers of asbestos.
currencies, particularly other European currencies and the US dollar, into pounds sterling will impact our reported consolidated financial Federal legislation that would address asbestos related problems, condition, results of operations and cashflows from period to period.
Senate Bill 852, an amended version of Senate Bill 2290 Fairness in These fluctuations in exchange rates will also impact the pound sterling Asbestos Injury Resolution or FAIR Act, was introduced in April 2005 value of our investments and the return on our investments.
by Senate Judiciary Committee Chair Arlen Specter.
The amended bill includes establishing a privately financed trust fund to provide payments Income and expenses for each Income Statement item are translated to individuals with asbestos related illnesses and removal of asbestos at average exchange rates.
Balance Sheet assets and liabilities are claims from the tort litigation system for the duration of the fund.
The translated at the closing exchange rates at the Balance Sheet date.
proposed bill would remove pending and future cases from the judicial Investment risk system and place these cases and claims into a no fault trust fund to be The Group is exposed to credit risk on its invested assets.
Credit risk administered by the US Department of Labor.
It would establish medical includes the non performance of contractual payment obligations criteria to ensure that only people who showed signs of asbestos related on invested assets and adverse changes in the creditworthiness of illnesses would be entitled to payments from the trust.
invested assets including exposures to issuers or counterparties for However, there are concerns that the bill contains several loopholes bonds, equities, deposits and derivatives.
Our insurance investment which would allow cases to revert to the tort system at various points portfolios are concentrated in listed securities.
We use derivative of the trust funds life.
This would undermine the certainty and finality financial instruments to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations that insurers and manufacturers defendants seek.
in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity markets.
We have strict controls over the use of derivative instruments.
Given the recent events in the Senate where floor debate ended with Senate Bill 852 sent back to Committee and the heavy opposition that Rating agencies remains for various parties, any prospects of passage of SB 852 in its The ability of the Group to write certain types of insurance business is current form are speculative at best.
It is possible that the focus could dependent on the maintenance of the appropriate credit ratings from shift to a medical criteria or another version of asbestos reform.
The Group has the objective of maintaining single A ratings.
At the present time the ratings are A from S&P and A Against this background and in common with the industry generally, from AM Best.
Any worsening in the ratings would have an adverse the Group in the US receives notifications and approaches from, and impact on the ability of the Group to write certain types of general on behalf of, insureds who previously had peripheral or secondary insurance business.
involvement in asbestos litigation indicating that they may be seeking coverage under Group policies.
Given the uncertainties outlined above Regulatory environment as to the potential of loss suffered, the availability of coverage and the The regulatory environment is subject to significant change in many often long delay in reporting these issues it is difficult to predict the of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
We continue to monitor the outcome of these notifications and approaches.
The greatest difficulty developments and react accordingly.
The directors are confident that is with estimating whether the Group has any liability as many of these the Group will continue to meet all future regulatory capital requirements.
are discharged at no cost to the Group or have been settled below the In addition the Group is continuing to monitor and respond to consultation quantum sought, although there can be no certainty that this will always on the latest Solvency II proposals, which are intended, in the medium be the case.
It is clear that there is unlikely to be any firm direction in term, to achieve greater harmonisation of approach across European case law or legislation which would allow for these issues to be resolved member states to assessing capital resources and requirements.
satisfactorily in the near term and no likelihood of the plaintiffs bar in the US easing its aggressive stance with litigation.
Management, therefore, US operations expect that these notifications and approaches will continue to be received In addition to the disclosures above there are a number of specific risks for some time to come.
One such approach received during 2004 from and issues pertaining to our US operations as follows: General Motors Corporation is now the subject of ongoing litigation.
Asbestos and environmental claims Financial enhancement products In respect of asbestos and environmental claims the position in the Within the financial enhancement portfolio of Financial Structures US is particularly problematic, as plaintiffs have expanded their focus Limited, a subsidiary of the US Group, are a variety of financial to defendants beyond the traditional asbestos manufacturers and enhancement product exposures including collateralised debt obligations distributors.
This has arisen as a consequence of the increase in the CDO, credit enhancement and residual value insurance contracts.
number of insureds seeking bankruptcy protection because of asbestos These products are no longer written.
related litigation and the exhaustion of their policy limits.
Plaintiffs, supported by lawyers remunerated on a contingent fee basis, are now During the first quarter 2005 the Group terminated a number of these seeking to draw in a wide cross section of defendants who previously contracts for a net pre tax gain of $7m.
The fair value of the remaining only had peripheral or secondary involvement in asbestos litigation.
two contracts was a liability of $157m at 31 December 2005, unchanged This may include companies which have distributed or incorporated since 31 December 2004. asbestos containing parts in their products or operated premises where Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 61 During February 2006 one of the remaining two contracts was terminated of reinsurance recoveries, the extent and amount of recoveries from for a net pre tax gain of $4m.
The fair value of the remaining contract at the borrower under the respective loan programmes and or reserves, 31 December 2005 was a liability of $75m.
if any, among other factors, will be resolved in favour of Royal Indemnity.
Litigation Based on current knowledge of the circumstances, legal advice received As discussed above, the Group is subject to litigation, mediation and and the range of other actions available to the Group to manage any arbitration, and regulatory and other sectoral inquiries in the normal insurance exposure, the directors believe that the resolution of the course of its business.
This is particularly so in respect of its US operations legal proceedings in respect of these credit risk insurance policies will where there are a number of ongoing litigations.
The status of two major not have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
US litigations is as follows: World Trade Center Student Finance Corporation The estimated cost of the insurance losses associated with the terrorist In early 2002, issues arose in connection with a series of credit risk action of 11 September 2001 is a gross loss in excess of 1bn, reduced insurance policies covering loans made to students in various post to 280m net of reinsurance.
This was an unprecedented event, which secondary trade schools, primarily truck driving schools.
The original still has unresolved issues in respect of both the gross loss and consequent loan portfolio had a face value of approximately $501m.
In mid July 2002, extent of the reinsurance recoveries.
The loss estimate has been prepared Royal Indemnity Company, a US subsidiary, filed lawsuits in Texas state on the basis of the information currently available as to the magnitude court, seeking among other things rescission of these policies in response of the claims, including business interruption losses.
The final cost may to a systematic pattern of alleged fraud, misrepresentation and cover be different from the current estimate due to the uncertainty associated up by various parties, which among other things concealed the default with ongoing appeals and the valuation and allocation process which rate of the loans.
Since Royal Indemnitys lawsuits seek rescission of is currently underway in respect of the Twin Towers complex.
Appraisal these policies, all the Groups financial accounting entries associated hearings are scheduled to continue until December 2006.
Nevertheless, with the transactions have been reversed.
The ultimate outcome of the directors believe their estimate of the gross and net loss is appropriate the suits is uncertain.
based on the information available to them and that there will be no material adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
The foregoing rescission actions gave rise to other related lawsuits filed in Delaware by MBIA Insurance Corporation MBIA and various banks, Restructuring plans seeking to enforce the Royal Indemnity credit risk insurance policies.
Our US restructuring plans are complex and are subject to particular Plaintiffs in the Delaware actions included Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, risks.
Although we have reduced the number of lead regulatory states, NA Wells Fargo, in its capacity as trustee of a number of securitisations our US subsidiaries are subject to government regulation in their states that were collateralised by student loans, and MBIA which insured the of domicile and also in each of the jurisdictions in which they are licensed obligations issued through these securitisations.
These actions were or authorised to do business.
In the US, the conduct of insurance business heard in US District Court, District of Delaware.
Plaintiffs in the Delaware is regulated at the state level and not by the federal government and actions moved for summary judgement.
The Court granted summary our subsidiaries are subject to state supervision of their regulatory judgement to MBIA and Wells Fargo on 30 September 2003. capital and surplus positions.
At 31 December 2005 our consolidated US regulatory capital and surplus capital position was 2.2 times the Calculated through 31 December 2005, the total amount awarded by NAIC ratio.
the foregoing summary judgements was approximately $386m.
Royal Indemnity appealed each of these judgements.
On 4 October 2005 the Our objective is to reduce or eliminate the Groups exposures in relation Court of Appeal upheld the District Courts ruling that Royal Indemnity to our US business and we continue to review all options.
waived its right to rescind its policy obligations based on Student Finance Corporations fraud and that the policies remain in force.
The Court, however, concluded that Royal Indemnity has raised a triable issue as to whether all of the losses claimed by the beneficiaries were covered under those policies.
As a result, the Court overturned the summary judgement and returned the case to the District Court to determine coverage and whether the policies cover all of the losses claimed.
Royal Indemnity has filed a petition for a rehearing of its appeal.
In April 2005 and October 2005, respectively, PNC Bank and Wilmington Trust, plaintiffs in the Delaware actions, agreed to discontinue their parts of the legal action following agreed settlements.
The ultimate outcome of these lawsuits is necessarily uncertain.
In the event Royal Indemnitys lawsuits do not result in complete rescission of all applicable policies, any loss on the loan portfolio will be reduced to the extent of reinsurance available to Royal Indemnity, recoveries from the original borrowers on the defaulted loans, and reserves, if any.
Any losses may be further offset by recoveries from other third parties.
To that end, Royal Indemnity is actively pursuing recovery actions against certain trucking school entities and professional advisers.
However, there can be no assurance that the outcome of these lawsuits, the availability Royal & SunAlliance 62 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the Associates consolidated financial statements are set out below.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between Consolidated financial statements 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the recognised at cost.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of The Groups shares of its associates post acquisition profits or losses available for sale financial assets, investment property, Group occupied are recognised in the Income Statement, and its share of post acquisition property and financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading movements in reserves are recognised in reserves.
The cumulative which include all derivative contracts.
post acquisition movements are adjusted in the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or Except where otherwise stated, all figures included in the consolidated exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured financial statements are presented in millions of British pounds sterling receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has m, rounded to the nearest million.
incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards Adjustments are made, where necessary, to conform the accounting The Group adopted IFRS for the year ended 31 December 2005. policies of associates to ensure consistency with the policies adopted Previously the Groups consolidated financial statements were by the Group.
prepared in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards and the Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of Selection of accounting policies British Insurers in November 2003.
The previously reported 2004 The Group exercises judgement in selecting each Group accounting consolidated financial statements have been restated to comply with policy.
The accounting policies of the Group are selected by the IFRS.
The impact of the adoption of IFRS, which materially affected the directors to present financial statements that they consider provides consolidated financial statements, has been reflected within note 1 the most relevant information.
For certain accounting policies there are First time adoption of IFRS.
different accounting treatments that could be adopted, each of which would be in compliance with IFRS and would have a significant Consolidation influence upon the basis on which the financial statements are Subsidiaries presented.
The bases of selection of the accounting policies for the Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern accounting for financial assets and for the recognition of actuarial gains the financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits from its and losses related to pension obligations are set out below: activities, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting The Group accounting policy is to designate all financial assets that rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when meet the necessary conditions as available for sale financial assets.
assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are This designation enables the Group to recognise the investment fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the return earned on such assets in a consistent manner with the internal Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
measures applied to measure the performance of the individual operations, The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The Group accounting policy is to recognise actuarial gains and losses arising from the recognition and funding of the Groups The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets pension obligations in the period in which they arise.
This policy has given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at been adopted as it provides the most relevant basis of recognition of the date of exchange, including costs directly attributable to the such gains and losses.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at Translation of foreign currencies their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair The results and financial position of those Group entities whose value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is functional currency is not British pounds sterling are translated into recognised directly in the Income Statement.
British pounds sterling as follows: Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on Assets and liabilities for each Balance Sheet presented are translated transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised at the closing exchange rate at the date of that Balance Sheet, losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of Income and expenses for each Income Statement are translated at subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure average exchange rates during each period, consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a component of equity.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 63 On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of Fair value is based on current prices in an active market for similar the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other property in the same location and condition and subject to similar currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are contractual terms of ownership.
Valuations are performed by external taken to equity.
When a foreign entity is sold, the cumulative exchange professionally qualified valuation surveyors on at least an annual basis, differences relating to that foreign entity are recognised in the Income with reference to current market conditions.
Statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
All other classes are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Cost Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity is treated as an includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of asset of the foreign entity and the carrying value translated at the the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset only when it is closing exchange rate.
probable that future economic benefits associated to the item will flow to the Group and the cost can be measured reliably.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation on all other items is calculated on transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the the straight line method to write down the cost of such assets to their settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end residual value over their estimated useful lives as follows: exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in Group occupied buildings normally 30 years foreign currencies are recognised in the Income Statement.
Fixtures and fittings 10 years Translation differences on non monetary items, such as equities Motor vehicles 4 years classified as available for sale financial assets, are included in the fair Equipment 3-5 years value reserve in equity.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if Goodwill and other intangible assets appropriate, at the Balance Sheet date.
Goodwill, being the difference between the cost of a business An assets carrying amount is written down to its recoverable amount if acquisition and the Groups interest in the net fair value of the the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, is initially capitalised in the amount.
Balance Sheet at cost and is subsequently recognised at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
The cost of the acquisition is the Increases in the carrying amount arising on the revaluation of Group amount of cash paid and the fair value of other purchase consideration occupied property are credited to revaluation surplus in equity.
given together with associated expenses.
Goodwill is subject to an Decreases that offset the previous increases of the same asset are impairment review at least annually.
If there are indications of impairment, charged against revaluation surplus directly in equity, other decreases the recoverable amount is determined.
Where the carrying amount is are charged to the Income Statement.
Each year the difference more than the recoverable amount, an impairment is recognised.
between depreciation based on the fair value of the asset charged to the Income Statement and depreciation based on the assets original When calculating the goodwill arising on an acquisition, claims provisions cost is transferred from revaluation surplus to retained earnings.
are discounted to present value.
Immediately following the acquisition, the claims provisions are valued at full nominal value.
This increase in Investment property liabilities is matched by the recognition of an intangible asset arising Investment property, comprising freehold and leasehold land and from acquired claims provisions, representing the present value of buildings, is held for long term rental yields and is not occupied by the future investment income implicit in the claims discount.
asset is amortised over the expected run off period and is tested in the Investment property is recorded at fair value, measured by context of the liability adequacy test of insurance liabilities where the independent professionally qualified valuers, who hold a recognised balances of intangible assets associated with insurance contracts is and relevant professional qualification and have recent experience in deducted from the carrying amount of the insurance liabilities.
the location and category of the investment property being valued, on Expenditure that increases the future economic benefits arising from an annual basis or more frequently and by internal valuers for interim computer software in excess of its standard of performance assessed periods, with reference to current market conditions.
Related unrealised immediately before the expenditure was made, is recognised as an gains and unrealised losses or changes thereof are recognised in intangible asset and amortised using the straight line method over a investment income.
period of three to five years.
Financial assets Property and equipment A financial asset is initially recognised, on the date the Group commits Property and equipment comprise Group occupied land and buildings, to purchase the asset, at fair value plus, in the case of all financial fixtures, fittings and equipment including computer hardware and motor assets not classified as at fair value through the Income Statement, vehicles.
These assets are depreciated over periods not exceeding transaction costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition.
A their estimated useful life after taking into account residual values.
financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive cashflows from the investment have expired or have been transferred and the Group occupied property is stated at fair value, less subsequent Group has also transferred substantially the risks and rewards of depreciation for buildings.
All other assets are stated at depreciated ownership of the asset.
Fair value movements are recorded in equity.
Royal & SunAlliance 64 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Significant accounting policies continued On initial recognition, the financial assets are categorised into the The effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured, following categories: financial assets at fair value through the Income For cashflow hedges, a forecast transaction that is the subject of Statement, loans and receivables, held to maturity financial assets the hedge must be highly probable and must present an exposure and available for sale financial assets.
The classification depends on to variations in cashflows that could ultimately affect profit or loss, the purpose for which the investments were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its investments at initial recognition.
The hedge is assessed on an ongoing basis and determined to have been highly effective.
The Group designates its financial assets as available for sale financial assets on initial recognition of a financial asset.
On subsequent Where loan capital is designated as the hedging instrument against the measurement, investments are measured at fair value with changes net investment in foreign entities, the effective portion of the hedge is in fair value recognised in equity.
Where the cumulative changes recognised in equity: the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion recognised in equity represent an unrealised loss the individual is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Gains and losses asset or group of assets is reviewed to test whether an indication accumulated in equity are included in the Income Statement when the of impairment exists.
underlying hedged item is derecognised.
For securities whose fair values are readily determined and where Estimation of the fair value of financial assets and liabilities there is objective evidence that such an asset is impaired, including The methods and assumptions used by the Group in estimating the fair a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value below cost, the value of financial assets and liabilities are: unrealised loss charged to equity is reclassified to the Income Statement.
For fixed maturity securities, fair values are generally based upon If the fair value of a previously impaired debt security increases and quoted market prices.
Where market prices are not readily available, the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the fair values are estimated using either values obtained from quoted impairment loss was recognised, the impairment loss is reversed and market prices of comparable securities or estimated by discounting the reversal recognised in the Income Statement.
Impairment losses expected future cashflows using a current market rate applicable to on equity investments are not reversed.
the yield, credit quality and maturity of the investment, Investment income is recognised in the Income Statement.
Dividends on For equity securities fair values are based upon quoted market prices, equity investments are recognised on the date at which the investment If the market for a financial asset is not active, the Group establishes is priced ex dividend.
Interest income is recognised using the effective fair value by using valuation techniques.
These include the use of interest method.
Unrealised gains and losses on available for sale recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that investments are recognised directly in equity, except for impairment are substantially the same, discounted cashflow analysis and option losses and foreign exchange gains and losses on monetary items pricing models, which are recognised in the Income Statement.
On derecognition of an investment, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised For mortgage loans on real estate and collateral loans, fair values are in equity is recognised in the Income Statement.
estimated using discounted cashflow calculations based upon prevailing market rates, Derivative financial instruments Derivatives are recognised in the Balance Sheet on a trade date basis For cash, short term investments, commercial paper, other assets, and are carried at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when liabilities and accruals carrying amounts approximate to fair values, fair value is positive and as liabilities when fair value is negative.
The For notes, bonds and loans payable, fair values are determined by method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether reference to quoted market prices or estimated using discounted the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and the nature cashflow calculations based upon prevailing market rates.
Loan of the item being hedged.
capital is carried at amortised cost and when this is different from Hedging fair value this is shown in the relevant note.
Fair value in this case Transactions are classified as hedging transactions when the following is based on discounted future cashflows.
For borrowings that carry conditions for hedge accounting are met: a variable rate of interest other than loan capital, carrying values approximate to fair values, There is a formal designation and documentation of the hedging relationship and the Groups risk management objective and strategy For derivatives, fair values are generally based upon quoted market prices.
for undertaking the hedge, Insurance contracts The hedge is expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting Product classification changes in fair value or cashflows attributable to the hedged risk, Insurance contracts are those contracts that transfer significant insurance consistently with the originally documented risk management strategy risk at the inception of the contract.
Insurance risk is transferred when for that particular hedging relationship, the Group agrees to compensate a policyholder if a specified uncertain Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 65 future event other than a change in a financial variable adversely The provision is calculated after taking into account future investment affects the policyholder.
Any contracts not meeting the definition of an income that is expected to be earned from the assets backing the insurance contract under IFRS are classified as investment contracts or provisions for unearned premiums net of deferred acquisition costs.
The unexpired risk provision is assessed in aggregate for business classes which, in the opinion of the directors, are managed together.
Recognition of income Premiums written are accounted for in the period in which the Reinsurance ceded contract is entered into and include estimates where the amounts are Premiums payable in respect of reinsurance ceded, are recognised not determined at the Balance Sheet date.
Premiums written exclude in the period in which the reinsurance contract is entered into and taxes and duties levied on premiums and directly related expenses include estimates where the amounts are not determined at the eg commissions.
Premiums are earned as revenue over the period Balance Sheet date.
Premiums are expensed over the period of the of the contract and are calculated principally on a daily pro rata basis.
reinsurance contract, calculated principally on a daily pro rata basis.
Acquisition costs A reinsurance asset, reinsurers share of insurance liabilities is recognised Acquisition costs comprise the direct and indirect costs of obtaining to reflect the amount estimated to be recoverable under the reinsurance and processing new insurance business.
These costs are recognised contracts in respect of the outstanding claims reported under insurance as a deferred acquisition cost asset and amortised on the same basis liabilities.
The amount recoverable from reinsurers is initially valued as the related premiums are earned.
on the same basis as the underlying claims provision.
The amount recoverable is reduced when there is an event arising after the initial Insurance liabilities recognition that provides objective evidence that the Group may not The provision for unearned premium represents the portion of the receive all amounts due under the contract and the event has a reliably premiums written relating to periods of insurance coverage subsequent measurable impact on the expected amount that will be recovered to the Balance Sheet date.
The provisions for claims outstanding, whether reported or not, The reinsurers shares of each unexpired risk provision is recognised comprises the estimated cost of claims incurred but not settled at the on the same basis.
It includes related expenses and a deduction for the expected value of salvage and other recoveries.
The provision is Annuities purchased by the Group to make payments under structured determined using the best information available of claims settlement settlement arrangements are accounted for as reinsurance ceded if patterns, forecast inflation and settlement of claims.
the Group remains liable for the settlement in the event of default by the annuity provider.
Any gain or loss arising on the purchase of an The provisions for claims outstanding, and related reinsurance recoveries, annuity is recognised in the Income Statement at the date of purchase.
are discounted where there is a particularly long period from incident to claims settlement and where there exists a suitable claims payment Cash and cash equivalents pattern from which to calculate the discount.
In defining those claims Cash and cash equivalents are short term, highly liquid investments that with a long period from incident to claims settlement, those categories are subject to insignificant changes in value and are readily convertible of claims where the average period of settlement is six years or more into known amounts of cash.
Cash equivalents comprise financial assets from the Balance Sheet date, has been used as a guide.
The discount with less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition.
rate used is based upon an investment return expected to be earned Treasury shares by assets, which are appropriate in magnitude and nature to cover the Treasury shares are deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised provisions for claims outstanding being discounted, during the period on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the treasury shares.
Any necessary for the payment of such claims.
consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity.
The provisions for claims outstanding relating to long term permanent Loan capital disability claims in the US, Canada and Scandinavia are determined Loan capital comprises subordinated bonds which are stated at the using recognised actuarial methods.
consideration received less transaction costs.
Subsequently, it is Differences between the estimated cost and subsequent settlement measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
of claims are recognised in the Income Statement in the year in which Taxation they are settled or in which the provisions for claims outstanding are Taxation in the Income Statement is based on profits and income re-estimated.
for the year as determined in accordance with the relevant tax At each Balance Sheet date an assessment is made of whether the legislation, together with adjustments to provisions for prior years.
provisions for unearned premiums are adequate.
A separate provision UK tax in respect of overseas subsidiaries and principal associated is made, based on information available at the Balance Sheet date, undertakings is recognised as an expense in the year in which the for any estimated future underwriting losses relating to unexpired risks.
profits arise, except where the remittance of earnings can be controlled Royal & SunAlliance 66 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Significant accounting policies continued and it is probable that remittance will not take place in the foreseeable Past service costs arise where additional benefits are granted.
The future, in which case UK tax is based on dividends received.
cost of providing additional benefits is recognised on a straight line basis over the remaining period of service until such benefits vest.
Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method on temporary The cost of providing additional benefits that vest on their introduction differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and the are recognised immediately.
carrying amounts in the financial statements.
However, if the deferred tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction The calculation of the present value of accrued benefits includes an other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction actuarial assumption of future interest rates, which is used to discount affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted the expected ultimate cost of providing the benefits.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have is determined at each Balance Sheet date by reference to current been enacted or substantially enacted by the Balance Sheet date and market yields on high quality corporate bonds identified to match the are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or currency and estimated term of the obligations.
The interest cost for the the deferred tax liability is settled.
period is calculated by multiplying the discount rate determined at the start of the period by the defined benefit obligations during the period.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which these temporary The change in the present value of the defined benefit obligation differences can be utilised.
and the changes in the fair value of scheme assets resulting from any curtailments and settlements of scheme liabilities during the period Employee benefits are recognised in the Income Statement.
Additionally, any previously Pension obligations unrecognised past service costs related to these liabilities are recognised Group companies operate various pension schemes.
The schemes in the gains or losses on settlement and curtailment.
are generally funded through payments to trustee administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The Group has The expected return on scheme assets is calculated using market both defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
A defined expectations, at the beginning of the period, of the investment returns contribution scheme is a pension scheme under which the Group pays on scheme assets over the entire life of the related obligations.
fixed contributions into a separate entity.
A defined benefit scheme is Actuarial gains and losses arise from changes to actuarial assumptions a pension scheme that defines an amount of pension benefit that an when revaluing future benefits and from actual experience in respect of employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or scheme liabilities and investment performance of scheme assets being more factors such as age, years of service and salary.
Actuarial gains and losses are Post retirement benefits including pension schemes and post recognised as a component of equity.
retirement health schemes The value recognised in the Balance Sheet for each individual post Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged in retirement scheme is calculated as follows: the period in which the employment services qualifying for the benefit are provided.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the The present value of defined benefit obligation of the scheme at contributions have been paid.
the Balance Sheet date, The amounts charged or credited where relevant in the Income Minus any past service cost not yet recognised, Statement relating to post retirement benefits in respect of defined Minus the fair value at the Balance Sheet date of the scheme assets benefit schemes are as follows: out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
The current service cost, Termination benefits The past service costs for additional benefits granted in the current Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated or earlier periods, before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group The interest cost for the period, recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed The impact of any curtailments or settlements during the period, to either: terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal: or providing The expected return on scheme assets where relevant.
termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary The current service cost in respect of defined benefit schemes comprises redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the the present value of the additional benefits attributable to employees Balance Sheet date are discounted to present value.
services provided during the period.
Share based payment The present value of defined benefit obligations and the present values The value of the employee share options and other equity settled of additional benefits accruing during the period are calculated using share based payments is calculated at fair value at the grant date the Projected Unit Credit Method.
using appropriate and recognised option pricing models.
The value Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 67 of liabilities in respect of cash settled share based payment transactions Recognition of income are based upon the fair value of the awards at the Balance Sheet date.
Premiums and annuity considerations arising from insurance contracts are accounted for when due.
Premiums are shown before deduction of Vesting conditions, other than those based upon market conditions, are commission and are gross of any taxes or duties levied with premiums.
not taken into account when estimating the fair value of such awards but are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments For single premium contracts, premiums are recorded as income included in the ultimate measurement of the transaction amount.
The when due with any excess profit deferred and recognised in income value of the awards are recognised as an expense on a systematic basis in a constant relationship to the insurance in force or, for annuities, over the period during which the employment services are provided.
The the amount of expected benefit payments.
proceeds received net of any transaction costs are credited to share Investment contracts capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
Amounts collected for investment contracts, which principally involve Provisions the transfer of financial risk such as long term savings contracts are Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or accounted for using deposit accounting, under which the amounts constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than collected are credited directly to the Balance Sheet as an adjustment not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation to the liability to the policyholder.
Where a contract contains both and the amount can be reliably estimated.
financial and insurance risk, the proportion of any premium relating to the insurance risk element of the contract is accounted for through Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that income and the remaining financial risk element is accounted for using an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering deposit accounting.
the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in Revenues from investment contracts consist of charges assessed for the same class of obligations may be small.
mortality, fees for contract administration, surrenders and withdrawals and investment income earned on contract balances.
Contract charges Dividends to equity holders and fees revenues are recognised in the year they are assessed unless The final dividend is recognised as a liability when approved at the they relate to services to be provided in future years.
Such deferred Annual General Meeting.
The interim dividend is recognised as a liability revenue is recognised as the service is provided.
Insurance contracts and investment contracts with Discretionary Leases Participation Features Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight line The Group sold certain contracts where the contract holders have a basis over the term of the lease.
Payments made under operating contingent interest in the excess of the value of specific Group assets leases are charged on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
over the value of specific Group liabilities.
This interest derives from Non current assets and operations held for sale and contractual rights to receive from this excess, additional benefits, the discontinued operations timing and the amount of which are at the discretion of the Group.
The Non current assets and operations are classified as held for sale if their allocation of the excess between shareholders and contract holders is carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction not determined at the Balance Sheet.
This excess at the Balance Sheet rather than through continuing use.
Such assets are measured at date is recognised as an additional liability.
Changes in the fair value of the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell and are this liability is recognised in the Income Statement.
classified separately from other assets in the Balance Sheet.
Assets Deferred acquisition costs DAC and liabilities are not netted.
Discontinued operations are presented For long term insurance business, principally life insurance and annuity on the face of the Income Statement as a single amount comprising contracts, DAC is amortised over the year in which the costs are expected the total of the net profit or loss of discontinued operations and the to be recovered out of estimated margins in matching revenues from after tax gain or loss recognised on the sale or the measurement to fair the related policies.
The rate of amortisation is consistent with the value less costs to sell of the net assets constituting the discontinued pattern of estimated margins.
In the period where an operation is presented for the first time as discontinued, the Income Statement for the comparative prior Insurance and financial liabilities in respect of Unit Linked contracts period presented is restated to present that operation as discontinued.
The liabilities arising under Unit Linked contracts are measured at a value determined by the value of the underlying assets in the investment Accounting policies of discontinued life operations fund established by the Group.
Changes in the fair value of these The Group disposed of its life insurance businesses during 2004. liabilities are recognised in the Income Statement.
The accounting policies specific to these life insurance businesses and applied in addition to the policies stated above in the measurement of Financial assets assets and liabilities of the life insurance business and its results to the The Group holds financial assets in specific funds backing the liabilities date of disposal are set out below: arising from insurance and investment contracts where the contract Royal & SunAlliance 68 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Significant accounting policies continued holders are entitled to participate in the investment performance of On 16 June 2005, the IASB issued an Amendment to IAS 39 Financial the fund.
On initial recognition, the Group designates such investments Instruments: Recognition and Measurement The Fair Value Option.
as financial assets at fair value through the Income Statement and The Amendment addresses concerns that the fair value option might measures each financial asset at fair value.
After initial recognition, be used inappropriately.
The Amendment has been adopted by the the financial assets are remeasured at fair value with changes in the EU and is effective for periods beginning 1 January 2006. fair value recognised in the Income Statement.
On 18 August 2005, the IASB issued an Amendment to IAS 39 Current and non current distinction Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Financial Assets are classified as current when expected to be realised within Guarantee Contracts.
The Amendment is intended to ensure that the the Groups normal operating cycle of one year.
Liabilities are classified issuer of financial guarantee contracts includes the resulting liabilities as current when expected to be settled within the Groups normal in its Balance Sheet.
The Amendment defines a financial guarantee operating cycle of one year.
All other assets and liabilities are classified contract as a contract that requires the issuer to make specified as non current.
payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with The Groups consolidated Balance Sheet is not presented using a the original or modified terms of a debt instrument.
The Amendment current non current classification.
However, the following balances has been adopted by the EU and is effective for periods beginning are generally classified as current: cash and cash equivalents: 1 January 2006. deferred acquisition costs: and insurance and reinsurance debtors.
On 18 August 2005, the IASB issued IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: The following balances are generally classified as non current: goodwill Disclosures and a complementary Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation and other intangible assets: property and equipment: investment of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures.
IFRS 7 requires disclosures property: investment in associates: financial assets: deferred tax about the significance of financial instruments for an entitys financial assets: loan capital: and deferred tax liabilities.
These disclosures incorporate many of the The remaining balances are of a mixed nature.
The current and requirements previously in IAS 32.
IFRS 7 also requires information non current portions of such balances have been set out in the about the extent to which the Group is exposed to risks arising from respective notes.
financial instruments, and a description of managements objectives, policies and processes for managing those risks.
The Amendment to Recently issued accounting pronouncements adopted early IAS 1 introduces requirements for disclosures about an entitys capital.
by the Group IFRS 7 and the Amendment to IAS 1 have been adopted by the EU and On 16 December 2004, the International Accounting Standards Board are effective for periods beginning 1 January 2007.
IASB issued an amendment to International Accounting Standard IAS 19 Employee Benefits Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group Plan On 15 December 2005, the IASB issued a limited Amendment to IAS 21 and Disclosures.
Before this amendment, IAS 19 required actuarial The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
The Amendment gains and losses to be recognised in the Income Statement.
For the clarifies the requirements of IAS 21 regarding an entitys investment in Group, the other significant changes introduced by the amendment foreign operations.
The limited Amendment to IAS 21 has not yet been relate to additional disclosures.
The amendment has been adopted adopted by the EU.
by the EU and is effective for periods beginning 1 January 2006.
The Group believes that the amendment provides a more relevant basis of recognition of actuarial gains and losses and has adopted the amendment from the date of transition to IFRS.
Recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted by the Group Below are listed the developments that are relevant in the future to the Groups future financial reporting.
The Group does not anticipate that any of these developments will have a material impact on the Groups financial condition or results of its operations.
On 14 April 2005, the IASB issued an Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Cashflow Hedge Accounting of Forecast Intragroup Transactions.
The Amendment allows the foreign currency risk of a highly probable forecast intragroup transaction to qualify as a hedged item in consolidated financial statements.
The Amendment has been adopted by the EU and is effective for periods beginning 1 January 2006.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 69 Notes to the financial statements 1.
First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards The Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 are the first annual financial statements that comply with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
The Group has applied IFRS 1 First Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
The Groups transition date is 1 January 2004 and an opening IFRS Balance Sheet has been prepared at that date.
IFRS 1 allows some exemptions from full retrospective application of certain standards.
In preparing these consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS 1, the Group has applied the mandatory exceptions and certain of the optional exemptions from full retrospective application of IFRS.
The Group has applied the provisions in IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts, which leaves existing accounting policies for insurance contracts unchanged.
The Group has elected to apply the following optional exemptions from full retrospective application: Business combinations exemption The Group has applied the business combinations exemption in IFRS 1.
It has not restated business combinations that took place prior to the 1 January 2004 transition date.
Cumulative translation differences exemption The Group has elected to set the previously accumulated cumulative translation differences to zero at 1 January 2004.
This exemption has been applied to all subsidiaries in accordance with IFRS 1.
Designation of financial assets and financial liabilities exemption The Group reclassified various securities as available for sale investments with fair value movements recognised in equity.
The Group has applied the following mandatory exceptions from retrospective application: Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities exception Financial assets and liabilities derecognised before 1 January 2004 are not rerecognised under IFRS.
Hedge accounting exception The Group has applied hedge accounting from 1 January 2004 only if the hedge relationship meets all the hedge accounting criteria under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Estimates exception Estimates under IFRS at 1 January 2004 are consistent with estimates made for the same date under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
The Group has also chosen to adopt IFRS 5 Non Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, early.
The 2004 financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the relevant requirements.
Reconciliations between IFRS and UK GAAP The following reconciliations provide a quantification of the effect of the transition to IFRS on both the Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2004 and Balance Sheets as at 31 December 2004 and 1 January 2004.
Explanations of the adjustments are set out below.
Notes m Loss for the year ended 31 December 2004 as reported under UK GAAP 109 Adjusted for: Discontinued life a 10 Insurance contracts reclassified to financial instruments b 42 Investment return c 69 Equalisation provisions d 37 Internal software costs capitalised e 21 Foreign exchange f 32 Reversal of amortisation of goodwill g 11 Loan capital interest h 3 Subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes i 14 Deferred tax j 8 Loss for the year ended 31 December 2004 as reported under IFRS 80 Royal & SunAlliance 70 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards continued Equity at 31 December 2004 and 1 January 2004 31 December 1 January 2004 2004 Notes m m Total equity and reserves as reported under UK GAAP 3,039 3,332 Adjusted for: Discontinued life a 9 Insurance contracts reclassified to financial instruments b 93 147 Equalisation provisions d 356 319 Internal software costs capitalised e 39 18 Reversal of amortisation of goodwill g 11 Subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes i 444 Deferred tax j 31 34 Pensions k 759 681 Dividends l 86 83 Other m 21 4 Total equity and reserves as reported under IFRS 3,133 2,971 Explanations a Discontinued life Adjustments relating to discontinued life operations primarily relate to contracts reclassified to investments, valuation differences taken to funds for future appropriations and mid to bid adjustments.
This caused an increase in the life profit of 10m for the year ended 31 December 2004.
The impact on equity was to increase shareholder funds by 9m at 1 January 2004.
There was no adjustment at 31 December 2004 as the life operations were disposed of during the year.
All other adjustments below relate to continuing business.
b Insurance contracts reclassified to financial instruments Under IFRS, insurance contracts that do not contain an element of insurance risk are either classified as investment contracts if considered as such or as derivatives.
Derivative contracts are marked to market on the Balance Sheet with the movement in the fair value taken through the Income Statement.
At 31 December 2004 the impact of reclassifying certain contracts previously classified as insurance contracts was to increase the pre tax profit for the year by 42m and decrease equity and reserves by 93m pre tax.
c Investment return Under UK GAAP, investment income comprises dividend income from equities, income on bonds based on accrued interest, rental income on properties, interest accrued on deposits and realised and unrealised gains and losses on investments.
Under IFRS, investment return comprises dividend income from equities, income from bonds, rental income and unrealised gains from properties, realised gains and losses and associated impairment charges.
Income on bonds is based on the effective interest rate method whereby any discount or premium is amortised over the life of the security.
Unrealised movements, other than those relating to investment property, are taken directly to equity.
Under IFRS, available for sale securities are tested for impairment and impairment losses are recognised in the Income Statement.
The impact of the change in treatment of the investment return was to decrease the pre tax profit for the year ended 31 December 2004 by 69m.
d Equalisation provisions Under UK GAAP, equalisation provisions are established for future catastrophe and other unusual losses.
Under IFRS, such losses are not provided for until incurred.
The adjustment reflects the reversal of the equalisation provisions which resulted in an increase of 37m in the pre tax profit for the year ended 31 December 2004 and a pre tax increase of 356m in the equity at 31 December 2004. e Internal software costs capitalised Under UK GAAP, the costs of software development are predominantly expensed as incurred.
Under IFRS, these costs are capitalised and amortised over the useful life of the software, normally being three years.
The impact is an increase of 21m in the pre tax profit for the year ended 31 December 2004 and a pre tax increase of 39m in the equity and reserves at 31 December 2004. f Foreign exchange Under UK GAAP, income and expenses of foreign entities are translated using the closing exchange rate.
Under IFRS, income and expenses are translated at the average rate of exchange.
On debt securities and other interest bearing available for sale investments, the changes in fair value due to foreign exchange movements are recognised in the Income Statement.
The impact of this adjustment is to decrease the pre tax profit for the year ended 31 December 2004 by 32m.
g Reversal of amortisation of goodwill Amortisation of goodwill is not permitted under IFRS.
This adjustment of 11m represents the reversal of goodwill amortised under UK GAAP during the year ended 31 December 2004.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 71 1.
First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards continued h Loan capital interest Under UK GAAP, the financial statements reflect an accrual or prepayment for the interest accrued on derivatives hedging loan capital interest.
Under IFRS, this accrual or prepayment is reversed and the fair value of the derivative contracts is reflected in the financial statements.
At 31 December 2004 the impact was an increase in the pre tax profit for the year of 3m.
i Subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes Under UK GAAP, the subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes issued during 2004 are classified as a liability.
As described in note 19, IFRS requires the perpetual notes to be classified as equity and the interest payments to be recognised directly in equity.
The impact of this adjustment is to increase the pre tax profit for the year by 14m and to increase equity and reserves by 444m.
j Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised under UK GAAP on all timing differences, whereas under IFRS deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences.
Further, under UK GAAP, deferred tax balances are discounted whereas under IFRS, no allowance is made for the time value of money in calculating for the deferred tax provisions.
The adjustments relate to both the change in basis in the calculation of deferred tax and the deferred tax impact of other IFRS adjustments made that affect the loss for the period.
The impact of changes to deferred tax is to increase the loss for the year ended 31 December 2004 by 8m and to increase equity and reserves by 31m at that date.
k Pensions Under UK GAAP, the cost of providing pension benefits was accounted for over the employees working lives on a systematic basis as advised by qualified actuaries.
Under IFRS the Income Statement charge comprises the current service cost, past service cost, interest cost, the impact of any curtailment or settlements in the period and the expected return on plan assets.
There was no material impact on the loss for the year ended 31 December 2004.
Under UK GAAP, the accrual or prepayment included on the Balance Sheet represents the difference between the expenses charged in the Income Statement and the cash paid into the scheme.
Under IFRS, the full pension asset or deficit is carried on the Balance Sheet.
The impact of this adjustment at 31 December 2004 is a pre tax decrease in equity and reserves of 759m.
l Dividends Under UK GAAP, all dividends relating to an accounting period that are proposed up to the date of the approval of the financial statements by the Board of Directors are accrued in that accounting period.
Under IFRS, only dividends approved during the year are accrued.
The adjustment reflects the impact of reversing the proposed dividends, which at 31 December 2004 was 86m.
m Other Other includes the impact of adjustments relating to the determination of the fair value of an asset using bid price mid market price under UK GAAP and other miscellaneous adjustments.
Cashflow reconciliation for year ended 31 December 2004 The Groups consolidated Cashflow Statements are presented in accordance with IAS 7 Cashflow Statements.
The statements present substantially the same information as that required under UK GAAP as required by UK Financial Reporting Standard 1, as revised, with the exception that the UK GAAP Cashflow Statements and related notes excludes the cashflows of the Groups life insurance funds.
Under IFRS these cashflows are required to be presented.
These are presented as discontinued activities.
Under UK GAAP, the Groups cash comprises cash at bank.
Under IFRS, cash and cash equivalents include cash and short term investments with original maturities of three months or less.
In addition, under UK GAAP, cashflows are presented for operating activities, returns on investments and servicing of finance, taxation, capital expenditure and financial investment, acquisitions and disposals, equity dividends paid, management of liquid resources and financing.
IFRS requires the classification of cashflows as resulting from operating, investing and financing activities.
Cashflows from capital expenditure and financial investment, acquisitions and disposals, shown separately under UK GAAP, are included as part of the investing activities under IFRS.
The payment of dividends to shareholders is included as a financing activity under IFRS.
Royal & SunAlliance 72 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Net investment return A summary of the gross investment income, net realised and net unrealised gains losses included in the Income Statement is given below.
Net realised Net unrealised Investment income gains losses gains losses Impairments Total investment return 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 m m m m m m m m m m Investment property 11 18 43 38 27 9 81 65 Equity securities 59 58 128 21 5 16 182 63 Debt securities 454 389 35 48 489 437 Other investments: Loans secured by mortgages 2 5 2 5 Other loans 4 3 4 3 Other 12 19 5 6 17 25 Deposits, cash and cash equivalents 61 59 61 59 Derivatives 21 9 1 30 1 Net investment return 603 551 190 113 18 8 5 16 806 656 Unrealised capital gains and losses recognised directly in equity for available for sale assets.
Net realised gains Impairments Net unrealised transferred to transferred to Net movement gains losses Income Statement Income Statement recognised in equity 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 m m m m m m m m Equity securities 186 56 128 21 5 16 63 51 Debt securities 48 11 35 48 83 37 Other 9 7 5 6 4 1 Total 147 74 168 75 5 16 16 15 Investment property income Rental income during the year amounted to 11m 2004: 25m.
Direct operating expenses including repairs and maintenance arising from investment properties were not material in 2005 and 2004.
Net claims and benefits 2005 2004 m m Gross claims paid 5,225 6,004 Gross changes in insurance contract liabilities for claims 774 188 Reinsurance recoveries on loss and loss expenses paid 1,251 1,608 Reinsurers share of change in insurance contract liabilities for claims 395 53 Net claims and benefits 3,595 4,261 4.
Profit before tax The following items have been included in arriving at the profit before tax: Other operating income 2005 2004 m m Other income 103 66 Net gains on derivatives 8 75 Other operating income 111 141 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 73 4.
Profit before tax continued Other operating expenses 2005 2004 m m Administration and other expenses 102 99 Reorganisation expenses 86 118 Investment expenses and charges 46 58 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 17 22 Foreign exchange losses gains 1 6 Other operating expenses 252 291 The operating lease payments recognised as an expense during the year were 65m 2004: 74m.
Finance costs 2005 2004 m m Interest expense on loan capital 79 53 Other loan interest 26 21 Other finance costs 2 1 Finance costs 107 75 Auditors remuneration 2005 2004 000 000 Audit of Group Accounts  LLP 3,234 2,515 Other 308 3,234 2,823 Other statutory audit  LLP 757 1,035 Other 44 47 801 1,082 4,035 3,905 Remuneration for audit includes 16,000 2004: 16,000 in respect of the Parent Company.
Non audit fees of 3,548,000 2004: 2,803,000 in the UK during the year were payable to  LLP.
Directors emoluments The aggregate emoluments of the directors, including amounts received from subsidiaries, were as follows: 2005 2004 000 000 Emoluments of executive directors 4,056 2,427 Fees and other payments to non-executive directors 481 433 4,537 2,860 A pension payment of 22,953 2004: 22,650 was paid by a subsidiary to a former director in respect of services other than as a director.
Details of directors remuneration and pension benefits, including that of the highest paid director Andy Haste, are included in the Directors Emoluments.
Details of directors interests in the Parent Company are shown in the Directors Interests.
Royal & SunAlliance 74 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the financial statements continued 4.
Profit before tax continued Employee information Staff costs for all employees comprise: 2005 2004 m m Wages and salaries 668 669 Social security costs 50 52 Pension costs 93 130 Share based payments to directors and employees 9 4 634 855 Pension costs in 2005 include a one off benefit of 180m due to the change in pension scheme design.
The average number of employees of the Group during the year was as follows: 2005 2004 Number Number UK 10,781 11,870 Scandinavia 6,709 7,298 International 6,036 6,365 US 1,766 2,822 25,292 28,355 5.
Income tax expense The tax amounts charged in the Income Statement are as follows: 2005 2004 m m Current tax 17 115 Deferred tax 277 27 Taxation attributable to the Group 260 88 Share of taxation attributable to associates 4 UK corporation tax is calculated at 30% 2004: 30% of the estimated assessable profit for the year.
Since the Group operates around the world, it is subject to income taxes in many different tax jurisdictions.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in those jurisdictions.
Of the above taxation attributable to the Group 176m 2004: 34m relates to UK corporation tax and 84m 2004: 54m to overseas taxation.
2005 2004 m m Profit before tax 865 35 Tax at the UK rate of 30% 2004: 30% 260 10 Tax effect of: Income not taxable 41 44 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 13 37 Tax losses not recognised 25 120 Adjustment for prior year provisions 18 24 Different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 15 11 Income tax expense 260 88 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 75 6.
Earnings per share attributable to the equity holders of the Parent Company The earnings per ordinary share is calculated by reference to the profit loss attributable to the equity shareholders and the weighted average of shares in issue during the year.
Basic Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit loss attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period, excluding ordinary shares purchased by the Parent Company and held as treasury shares.
Continuing operations Discontinued operations 2005 2004 2005 2004 m m m m Profit loss attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company 555 98 27 Less: Interest on subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes net of tax 10 Less: Cumulative preference dividends 9 9 Profit loss for the calculation of earnings per share 546 117 27 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue thousands 2,896,059 2,872,090 2,896,059 2,872,090 Basic earnings per share p 18.9 4.1 0.9 Diluted Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The Parent Company has only one category, share options, of dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The calculation is performed for the share options to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value determined as the average annual market share price of the Parent Companys shares based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share options.
The number of shares calculated as above is compared with the number of shares that would have been issued assuming the exercise of the share options.
Continuing operations Discontinued operations 2005 2004 2005 2004 m m m m Profit loss for the calculation of earnings per share 546 117 27 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue thousands 2,896,059 2,872,090 2,896,059 2,872,090 Adjustments for share options thousands 17,445 17,445 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share thousands 2,913,504 2,872,090 2,913,504 2,872,090 Diluted earnings per share p 18.7 4.1 0.9 The number of contingently issuable shares that could potentially dilute basic earnings per share in the future, but were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share because they are antidilutive for the period, are nil 2004: 8.2million.
Dividends 2005 2004 2005 2004 p p m m Ordinary dividend: Final paid in respect of prior year 2.96 2.90 86 83 Interim paid in respect of current year 1.69 1.65 49 47 135 130 Preference dividend 9 9 144 139 At the Annual General Meeting AGM on 22 May 2006, a dividend in respect of 2005 of 3.05p per share amounting to a total dividend of 89m is to be proposed.
The dividend will be paid and accounted for in shareholders equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ending 31 December 2006.
The trustees of the Royal & SunAlliance ESOP Trust and the Royal & SunAlliance ESOP Trust No 2 waived their entitlement to dividends which reduced the total dividend paid by 1m 2004: 1m.
Royal & SunAlliance 76 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the financial statements continued 8.
Goodwill and other intangible assets Intangible asset arising from acquired Software Goodwill claims provisions development Other Total m m m m m Gross carrying amount at 1 January 2005 708 208 212 56 1,184 Accumulated amortisation at 1 January 2005 150 85 34 269 Accumulated impairment at 1 January 2005 593 593 Net carrying amount at 1 January 2005 115 58 127 22 322 Exchange adjustments 21 47 Additions and transfers 38 122 22 182 Disposals and transfers 3 2 5 Amortisation 12 39 5 56 Impairment losses recognised Gross carrying amount at 31 December 2005 745 209 332 82 1,368 Accumulated amortisation at 31 December 2005 162 124 39 325 Accumulated impairment at 31 December 2005 593 593 Net book amount at 31 December 2005 152 47 208 43 450 Intangible asset arising from acquired Software Goodwill claims provisions development Other Total m m m m m Gross carrying amount at 1 January 2004 708 206 102 50 1,066 Accumulated amortisation at 1 January 2004 134 64 28 226 Accumulated impairment at 1 January 2004 590 590 Net carrying amount at 1 January 2004 118 72 38 22 250 Exchange adjustments 2 1 3 Additions and transfers 2 117 6 125 Disposals and transfers 2 7 1 10 Amortisation 16 21 6 43 Impairment losses recognised 3 3 Gross carrying amount at 31 December 2004 708 208 212 56 1,184 Accumulated amortisation at 31 December 2004 150 85 34 269 Accumulated impairment at 31 December 2004 593 593 Net book amount at 31 December 2004 115 58 127 22 322 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 77 9.
Property and equipment Group occupied property land and buildings Equipment Total m m m Cost valuation At 1 January 2005 319 366 685 Additions 35861 Acquisition disposal of subsidiaries 1 1 Disposals 85 85 Transfer to assets held for sale 33 17 50 Revaluation adjustments 13 13 Exchange adjustment 2 8 6 At 31 December 2005 301 329 630 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2005 267 267 Depreciation charge 53237 Depreciation on disposals 69 69 Disposal of subsidiaries 1 1 Transfer to assets held for sale 12 12 Revaluation adjustment 5 5 Exchange adjustment 33 At 31 December 2005 220 220 Net book amount at 31 December 2005 301 109 410 Group occupied property land and buildings Equipment Total m m m Cost valuation At 1 January 2004 338 407 745 Additions 25 32 57 Acquisition disposal of subsidiaries 4 4 Disposals 18 67 85 Transfers to investment property 14 14 Revaluation adjustments 10 10 Exchange adjustment 2 2 4 At 31 December 2004 319 366 685 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2004 287 287 Depreciation charge 63339 Depreciation on disposals 50 50 Acquisition disposal of subsidiaries 3 3 Revaluation adjustment 6 6 At 31 December 2004 267 267 Net book amount at 31 December 2004 319 99 418 The Group occupied property was revalued on 31 December 2005 by independent valuers.
Depreciation and impairment expense of 37m 2004: 39m has been charged to underwriting and policy acquisition costs.
The carrying amount of Group occupied property that would have been recognised had the assets been carried under the cost model at 31 December 2005 was 260m 2004: 283m.
Royal & SunAlliance 78 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the financial statements continued 10.
Investment property Investment property consists of the following: 2005 2004 m m Land and buildings: Freehold and long leasehold 431 412 Short leasehold 4 5 Total land and buildings 435 417 Movement in the carrying value of investment property is detailed below: 2005 2004 m m Investment property at 1 January 417 353 Additions from subsequent expenditure 10 1 Transfer from property and equipment 14 Sales and purchases 2 33 Fair value gains 12 16 Exchange adjustment 2 Investment property at 31 December 435 417 11.
Investments in associates The Group has the following investments in associates: Ordinary Country shareholding Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Malaysia Bhd Malaysia 45.0% Royal Sundaram Alliance Insurance Company Ltd India 26.0% Syn Mun Kong Public Company Ltd Thailand 20.0% Summarised below are the assets, liabilities, revenue and profit and loss of the companies above.
During 2004 the Group disposed of its 37.5% interest in Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Limited, a South African undertaking, and accordingly it is excluded from the table below.
2005 2004 m m Total assets 185 165 Total liabilities 121 105 Total revenue 128 113 Goodwill on acquisition 5 5 Profit for the year after tax 6 6 The Groups share of net assets and profit and loss are accounted for under the equity method.
Financial assets 2005 2004 m m Equity securities 1,683 1,657 Debt securities 11,609 11,158 Other financial assets 146 137 Short term investments 95 183 Total financial assets available for sale 13,533 13,135 At the period end, the Group had pledged 2,503m 2004: 2,368m of financial assets as collateral for liabilities or contingent liabilities and had accepted 1,802m 2004: 1,900m collateral that could be sold or pledged.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 79 13.
Reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities 2005 2004 m m Reinsurers share of provision for unearned premiums 298 266 Reinsurers share of provisions for loss and loss adjustment expenses 4,108 4,158 Total reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities 4,406 4,424 The following changes have occurred in the reinsurers share of the provision for unearned premiums during the year.
2005 2004 m m Reinsurers share of provision for unearned premiums at 1 January 266 493 Premiums ceded to reinsurers 1,020 1,573 Reinsurers share of premiums earned 1,042 1,792 Changes in reinsurance asset 22 219 Reinsurers share of portfolio transfers and acquisitions 35 2 Exchange adjustment 19 6 Reinsurers share of provision for unearned premiums at 31 December 298 266 The following changes have occurred in the reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities for loss and loss adjustment expenses during the year.
2005 2004 m m Reinsurers share of provisions for loss and loss adjustment expenses at 1 January 4,158 4,484 Reinsurers share of total claims incurred 856 1,555 Total reinsurance recoveries received 1,251 1,608 Reinsurers share of portfolio transfers and acquisitions 21 14 Exchange adjustment 318 276 Other movements 6 17 Reinsurers share of provisions for loss and loss adjustment expenses at 31 December 4,108 4,158 To be settled within 12 months 1,690 1,605 To be settled after 12 months 2,418 2,553 14.
Insurance and reinsurance debtors 2005 2004 m m Insurance debtors comprise: Due from policyholders 851 853 Due from intermediaries 1,127 1,014 Total insurance debtors 1,978 1,867 Reinsurance debtors 569 817 Total insurance and reinsurance debtors 2,547 2,684 All insurance and reinsurance debtors are recoverable within 12 months.
Deferred acquisition costs 2005 2004 m m Deferred acquisition costs at 1 January 487 698 Exchange adjustment 13 4 Acquisition costs deferred during the year 738 630 Amortisation charged during the year 769 831 Charge to Income Statement in the year 31 201 Disposal of assets 3 4 Other 1 2 Deferred acquisition costs at 31 December 465 487 The Group records acquisition costs recovered from reinsurers as a deduction from deferred acquisition costs.
Royal & SunAlliance 80 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the financial statements continued 16.
Other debtors and other assets 2005 2004 m m Derivative assets 31 30 Tax recoverable 40 6 Outstanding investment sales 3 5 Other debtors 329 357 Accrued interest and rent 155 135 Prepayments 78 84 Total other debtors and other assets 636 617 To be settled within 12 months 501 473 To be settled after 12 months 135 144 17.
Cash and cash equivalents 2005 2004 m m Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts as reported within the Cashflow Statement 1,612 1,864 Add: bank overdrafts 5 17 Less: balances attributable to operations held for sale 15 Total cash and cash equivalents 1,617 1,866 The interest bearing financial assets and financial liabilities included in cash and cash equivalents had an effective interest rate of 4.09% 2004: 3.06% and had an average maturity of 30 days 2004: 13 days.
Equity and reserves Changes in equity Changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2005 Subordinated Ordinary Ordinary Capital Shareguaranteed share share Treasury Preference Revaluation redemption Translation Retained holders perpetual Minority Total capital premium shares shares reserves reserve reserve earnings funds notes interest equity m m m m m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 801 790 54 125 479 8 19 191 2,321 444 368 3,133 Total recognised income expense for the year 31 69 502 540 39 579 Dividends paid note 7 144 144 16 160 Issued by scrip 5 13 18 18 Issued for cash 1 1 2 2 Treasury share purchase 3 3 3 Depreciation transfer 16 16 Share options 9 9 9 Reclassification to loan capital note 19 444 444 Minority interests disposal of subsidiaries Balance at 31 December 807 804 57 125 432 8 50 574 2,743 391 3,134 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 81 18.
Equity and reserves continued Changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2004 Subordinated Ordinary Ordinary Capital Shareguaranteed share share Treasury Preference Revaluation redemption Translation Retained holders perpetual Minority Total capital premium shares shares reserves reserve reserve earnings funds notes interest equity m m m m m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 792 775 54 125 526 8 444 2,616 355 2,971 Total recognised income expense for the year 47 19 108 174 48 126 Dividends paid note 7 139 139 12 151 Issued by scrip 9 15 24 24 Share options 4 4 4 Issue of subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes note 19 444 444 Interest on subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes net of tax note 19 10 10 10 Minority interests disposal of subsidiaries 23 23 Balance at 31 December 801 790 54 125 479 8 19 191 2,321 444 368 3,133 Ordinary and preference shares During the year 2,137,513 2004: 449,832 ordinary shares were issued on the exercise of employee share options for a cash consideration of 2m 2004: 0.3m.
The Parent Company also issued 20,661,210 2004: 31,669,408 ordinary shares during the year under the scrip scheme approved by the shareholders at the 2005 AGM.
The total nominal value of ordinary shares issued during the year was 6m 2004: 9m.
2005 2004 m m Authorised 3,923,636,364 ordinary shares of 27.5p each 2004: 3,923,636,364 ordinary shares of 27.5p each 1,079 1,079 300,000,000 preference shares of 1 each 2004: 300,000,000 preference shares of 1 each 300 300 Issued and fully paid 2,935,117,294 ordinary shares of 27.5p each 2004: 2,912,318,571 ordinary shares of 27.5p each 807 801 125,000,000 preference shares of 1 each 2004: 125,000,000 preference shares of 1 each 125 125 932 926 The preference shares carry a right to a fixed cumulative preferential dividend of 7.375% per annum, payable in half yearly instalments, and are not redeemable.
On a return of capital on a winding up liquidation, the holders are entitled, in priority to holders of all shares of the Parent Company, to receive out of the surplus assets of the Parent Company any arrears and accruals of the dividend together with the greater of the price at which the gross yield on 3.5% War Loan or such Government Stock as may be agreed but not exceeding twice the nominal amount of the preference share and the nominal amount of the share together with any premium paid on issue.
The holders of preference shares have the right to vote at a general meeting of the Group only if at the date of the notice of the meeting the dividend payable on the share is in arrears or otherwise on a resolution to vary the rights attaching to the preference shares.
The Royal & SunAlliance ESOP Trust holds ordinary shares in the Parent Company, which may subsequently be transferred to employees other than the executive directors.
At 31 December 2005, the Trust held 19,182,272 ordinary shares 2004: 12,369,290 in the Parent Company with a nominal value of 5m 2004: 3m and a mid market value, based on the market value of the Parent Companys shares at the close of business on 30 December 2005 as shown in the Official List of the London Stock Exchange, of 24m 2004: 10m.
The Royal & SunAlliance ESOP Trust No 2 holds ordinary shares in the Parent Company, which may subsequently be transferred to employees including executive directors.
At 31 December 2005 the trust held 4,938,894 ordinary shares 2004: 3,038,894 in the Parent Company with a nominal value of 1m 2004: 1m and a market value, based on the mid market value of the Companys share at the close of business on 30 December 2005 as shown in the Official List of the London Stock Exchange, of 6m 2004: 2m.
Royal & SunAlliance 82 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the financial statements continued 19.
Loan capital 2005 2004 m m Subordinated guaranteed US$ bonds 285 255 Subordinated guaranteed Euro bonds 341 352 Total dated loan capital 626 607 Subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes 445 Total loan capital 1,071 607 Subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes classified as equity 444 The subordinated guaranteed US$ bonds $500m have a redemption date of 15 October 2029.
The rate of interest payable on the US$ bonds is 8.95%.
The subordinated guaranteed Euro bonds 1500m have a redemption date of 15 October 2019.
1200m of the Euro bonds bear interest at a fixed rate of 6.875% until 15 October 2009 and a floating rate thereafter.
1300m of the Euro bonds bear interest at a floating rate from the date of issue.
The Parent Company has the option to repay the Euro bonds on specific dates from 15 October 2009.
Subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes of 450m 444m net of discount and fees were issued on 23 July 2004.
The notes pay an annual coupon of 8.50% with an option to call the notes, or if not called for the coupon rate to be reset, on 8 December 2014 and every five years thereafter.
IFRS requires perpetual debt to be classified as equity where the issuer has no contractual obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset to another party.
Once classified as equity the subsequent interest payments and related income tax benefits are recognised directly in equity.
Under the original terms of the loan agreement the Company had an option to defer interest payments indefinitely, provided no dividend was declared or distribution paid in respect to any class of share capital since the most recent AGM.
Accordingly, the interest payments for the year ended 31 December 2004 of 14m net of tax 10m were recognised directly in equity.
During the year ended 31 December 2005, the loan agreement was amended such that the subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes became a financial liability.
The bonds and the notes are contractually subordinated to all other creditors of the Parent Company such that in the event of a winding up or of bankruptcy, they are to be repaid only after the claims of all other creditors have been met.
The fair value of the dated loan capital and subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes at 31 December 2005 was 1,271m 2004: 1,206m.
Insurance contract liabilities 2005 2004 m m Provision for unearned premiums 3,001 2,903 Provision for losses and loss adjustment expenses 14,203 14,288 Total gross insurance contract liabilities 17,204 17,191 Provision for unearned premiums The following changes have occurred in the provision for unearned premiums during the year: 2005 2004 m m Provision for unearned premiums at 1 January 2,903 3,863 Premiums written 6,420 6,655 Less: premiums earned 6,424 7,538 Changes in provision for unearned premiums 4 883 Gross portfolio transfers and acquisitions 41 55 Exchange adjustment 61 10 Other movements 12 Provision for unearned premiums at 31 December 3,001 2,903 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 83 20.
Insurance contract liabilities continued Provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses 2005 2004 m m Provision for losses and loss adjustment expenses at 1 January 14,288 14,923 Claim losses and expenses incurred 4,451 5,816 Total claims payments made in the year, net of recoveries 5,225 6,004 Gross portfolio transfers and acquisitions 15 150 Exchange adjustment 637 385 Other movements 67 88 Provision for losses and loss adjustment expenses at 31 December 14,203 14,288 To be settled within 12 months 7,616 8,202 To be settled after 12 months 6,587 6,086 Assumptions The total value of outstanding claims provisions less related reinsurance recoveries before discounting amounted to 10,843m 2004: 10,852m.
Claims on certain classes of business have been discounted as follows: Average number of Discount rate years to settlement 2005 2004 2005 2004 Category % % Years Years UK Asbestos and environmental 5.00 5.00 13 14 Scandinavia Disability 3.57 3.14 12 11 US Asbestos and environmental 5.00 5.00 9 9 Disability 5.00 5.00 15 15 Canada Asbestos and environmental 5.00 5.00 6 6 In determining the average number of years to ultimate claims settlement, estimates have been made based on the underlying claims settlement patterns.
Claims development tables The tables below present changes in the historical general insurance provisions that were established in 2001 and the general insurance provisions arising in each subsequent accident year.
The tables are presented at current year cumulative average exchange rates and have been adjusted for operations disposed of.
The top triangle of the tables presents the estimated provision for ultimate incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses at the end of each accident year as at each Balance Sheet date.
The lower paid triangle of the tables presents the amounts paid against those provisions in each subsequent accounting period.
The estimated provision for ultimate incurred losses changes as more information becomes known about the actual losses for which the initial provisions were set up and as the rate of exchange changes.
The 2005 redundancy deficiency presents the claims development of earlier accident years incurred in the current accounting period.
The redundancy deficiency is equal to the current estimate of cumulative claims less the cumulative claims paid.
Royal & SunAlliance 84 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the financial statements continued 20.
Insurance contract liabilities continued Consolidated claims development table gross of reinsurance 2001 and prior 2002 2003 2004 2005 Total m m m m m m Estimate of cumulative claims At end of accident year 14,262 4,209 4,252 2,998 2,742 One year later 15,603 4,099 3,934 2,579 Two years later 16,969 4,306 3,891 Three years later 17,445 4,370 Four years later 17,994 Claims paid One year later 4,763 1,621 1,458 952 Two years later 2,699 733 581 Three years later 2,085 504 Four years later 1,493 Cumulative claims paid 11,040 2,858 2,039 952 2005 redundancy deficiency Core Group 352 53 84 234 19 US 197 117 41 185 170 549 64 43 419 151 Reconciliation to the Balance Sheet Current year provision before discounting 6,954 1,512 1,852 1,627 2,742 14,687 Exchange adjustment to closing rates 384 Discounting 868 Present value recognised in the Balance Sheet 14,203 Consolidated claims development table net of reinsurance 2001 and prior 2002 2003 2004 2005 Total m m m m m m Estimate of cumulative claims At end of accident year 10,056 3,076 2,996 2,422 2,194 One year later 10,666 2,925 2,746 2,090 Two years later 11,308 2,972 2,626 Three years later 11,830 3,118 Four years later 12,034 Claims paid One year later 3,283 1,198 993 709 Two years later 1,803 450 365 Three years later 1,347 436 Four years later 873 Cumulative claims paid 7,306 2,084 1,358 709 2005 redundancy deficiency Core Group 108 21 85 153 151 US 96 167 35 179 49 204 146 120 332 102 Reconciliation to the Balance Sheet Current year provision before discounting 4,728 1,034 1,268 1,381 2,194 10,605 Exchange adjustment to closing rates 238 Discounting 748 Present value recognised in the Balance Sheet 10,095 In 2005 there has been net positive development of 151m for the Group excluding the US reflecting the favourable experience in the 2002 to 2005 accident years, partially offset by some general reserve strengthening in the 2001 and prior accident years.
US reserves show a significant reduction as the Group continues to settle claims proactively.
The split between accident years has been distorted by the treatment of general litigation provisions where the provisions held and any settlements made may be reported in different accident years.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 85 21.
Insurance and reinsurance liabilities 2005 2004 m m Direct insurance creditors 196 302 Reinsurance creditors 279 476 Total insurance and reinsurance liabilities 475 778 To be settled within 12 months 458 739 To be settled after 12 months 17 39 22.
Borrowings 2005 2004 m m Secured debenture loans 10 10 Amounts owed to credit institutions unsecured: Under committed credit facilities 233 317 Other 8 22 Total borrowings 251 349 Borrowings at 31 December were repayable as follows: 2005 2004 m m One year or less 242 104 After one year and within two years 1 236 After two years and within three years 1 2 After three years and within four years 1 1 After four years and within five years 2 1 After five years 4 5 Total borrowings 251 349 Loans from credit institutions of 233m at 31 December 2005 2004: 317m under committed credit facilities have been classified by reference to the earliest date on which repayment may be demanded by the lender.
At 31 December 2005 total committed credit facilities available to the Group were 233m 2004: 317m, of which 233m 2004: 84m expire within one year and nil 2004: 233m expire within one to two years.
400m 2004: 400m was originally committed under a deal comprising a 150m revolving facility and 250m amortising loan which expires in October 2006.
This facility currently bears interest at 125 basis points over LIBOR and there is a commitment fee charged at 50% of the applicable margin of any unused portion of the facility.
The facility is subject to cross default conditions.
A new facility was entered into by the Group on 7 March 2006.
At 31 December 2005 and 2004 the Group had in place a one billion US dollar Euro commercial paper program.
There were no amounts outstanding at 31 December 2005 2004: nil.
The weighted average interest rate on short term borrowings at 31 December 2005 was 5.79% 2004: 6.17%.
At 31 December 2005 interest payable on amounts repayable within five years was 20m 2004: 25m and after five years 1m 2004: 1m.
Royal & SunAlliance 86 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
Current and deferred tax Current tax liability 2005 2004 m m To be settled within 12 months 33 57 To be settled after 12 months 22 21 55 78 Deferred tax 2005 2004 m m Deferred tax assets 33 174 Deferred tax liabilities 236 101 Net deferred tax position at 31 December 203 73 The movement for the year in the Groups net deferred tax position was as follows: 2005 2004 m m Net deferred tax position at1 January 73 45 Charge credit to the Income Statement for the year 277 27 Charge credit to equity for the year 9 5 Net liability disposed of on disposal of subsidiary 86 Exchange adjustment 10 Net deferred tax position at 31 December 203 73 The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and their movements during the year: Deferred tax liabilities Claims equalisation Revaluation of Other temporary reserves investments differences Total m m m m Deferred tax liabilities at 1 January 2004 85 106 10 201 Charge credit to the Income Statement for the year 12 16 33 29 Charge credit to equity for the year 5 5 Disposals 124 124 Deferred tax liabilities at 31 December 2004 97 85 81 101 Charge to the Income Statement for the year 7 5 98 110 Charge to equity for the year 28 533 Disposals Exchange adjustment 8 8 Deferred tax liabilities at 31 December 2005 104 118 14 236 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 87 23.
Current and deferred tax continued Deferred tax assets Retirement benefit Other temporary obligations differences Total m m m Deferred tax assets at 1 January 2004 161 6 155 Charge to the Income Statement for the year 9 47 56 Disposals 37 37 Exchange adjustment Deferred tax assets at 31 December 2004 170 4 174 Charge to the Income Statement for the year 91 76 167 Charge to equity for the year 24 24 Exchange adjustment 22 Deferred tax assets at 31 December 2005 103 70 33 The deferred income tax charged credited to equity is as follows: 2005 2004 m m Fair value reserves in shareholders equity Available for sale financial assets 28 5 Group occupied property 5 Retirement benefit obligations 24 The aggregate current tax relating to items that were charged or credited to equity is 21m 2004: nil.
At the Balance Sheet date, the Group had unused tax losses of 1,812m 2004: 1,324m available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of 4m 2004: 14m of these losses.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining 1,808m 2004: 1,328m due to the unpredictability of future profit streams.
Included in unrecognised tax losses are losses of 1,086m 2004: 723m which will expire between 2007 and 2024.
Other losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
Provisions Pensions and Reorganisation post retirement Other provisions benefits provisions Total m m m m Provisions at1 January 2005 74 714 126 914 Exchange adjustment 521 329 Credited charged 101 47 88 142 Utilised 138 35 42 215 Released 3 180 2 185 Acquisition disposal of subsidiary undertaking 9 1 8 Provisions at 31 December 2005 48 473 172 693 Reorganisation provisions comprise costs relating to reorganisations mainly within the US and UK businesses.
These provisions primarily comprise severance and property costs and are part of a programme to achieve business improvement and expense savings, to be substantially achieved by year end 2006.
Other provisions include various litigation provisions of 4m 2004: 4m, the payment of which is dependent upon legal processes.
In addition, there are provisions of 54m 2004: 66m held relating to vacant property leases, dilapidations and refurbishments, the costs relating to which will be borne across the period over which the leases expire, which is up to 20 years.
Of the above 468m is due to be settled outside of 12 months 2004: 699m.
See note 26 for further information regarding the pensions and post retirement benefits provision.
Royal & SunAlliance 88 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the financial statements continued 25.
Other liabilities 2005 2004 m m Deposits received from reinsurers 347 290 Derivative trading liabilities 130 125 Other creditors 624 643 Accruals and deferred income 377 368 Total other liabilities 1,478 1,426 To be settled within 12 months 994 880 To be settled after 12 months 484 546 26.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates defined contribution pension schemes, funded and unfunded defined benefit pension schemes, and has other post retirement obligations.
Defined contribution pension schemes Contributions of 28m 2004: 31m were made to defined contribution schemes across the Group, including 24m 2004: 27m in respect of schemes in Denmark and Sweden.
The defined contribution schemes in Denmark and Sweden are fully funded and are administered, as with all the overseas schemes, in accordance with local law and practice.
Defined benefit pension schemes and other post retirement benefits The major defined benefit pension schemes are located in the UK and US.
The assets of these schemes are held mainly in separate trustee administered funds.
In April 2002, the primary UK defined benefit schemes were effectively closed to new entrants following the introduction of a new, primarily defined contribution, scheme the 2002 Scheme.
However, due to a small defined benefit underpin, the 2002 Scheme is still disclosed under IAS 19 as a defined benefit scheme.
In 2005, following discussions with the Trustees and consultation with the members, the UK defined benefit schemes were altered from providing benefits on a final salary basis to benefits on a revalued average salary basis with effect from 1 January 2006.
Under the new benefit formula, the accrued benefits of current active members are based on salaries at the date of change and will increase in line with inflation each year limited to 5% in any year up to their retirement date.
Benefits earned in future years will be based on salaries in that year and similarly will be revalued up to retirement.
As a result of the changes, the projected benefit obligations of the schemes are reduced from the date of change.
The figures shown in the tables below reflect that reduction at the Balance Sheet date and the one off benefit of 180m arising from the reduction is recorded in the Income Statement in 2005.
In addition to these changes, the 2002 Scheme which was the scheme to which new UK employees have been admitted since the closure of the defined benefit schemes to new members has been closed to further accrual from 1 January 2006.
It has been replaced by a stakeholder arrangement and members of the 2002 Scheme and future new employees in the UK will accrue future benefits on a defined contribution basis under the stakeholder plan.
For the two main UK defined benefit schemes, the level of contributions in 2005 were 23% and 21% of pensionable salaries 2004: 23% and 20%.
Additional contributions totalling 86m 2004: 43m were made to the schemes, in accordance with the plan to reduce their deficits.
The major defined benefit schemes are subject to regular valuation using the projected unit method which is the basis of the pension cost in the consolidated Income Statement.
Independent, qualified actuaries carry out valuations of the major defined benefit schemes for the purposes of assessing pension costs.
The Group also provides post retirement healthcare benefits to certain current and retired US and Canadian employees.
The benefits are not pre funded.
Life insurance benefits, which provide varying levels of coverage, are provided at no cost to retirees.
Healthcare benefits, which also provide varying levels of coverage, require retiree contributions in certain instances.
Benefits are generally payable for life.
The estimated discounted present values of the unfunded accumulated obligations are calculated in accordance with the advice of independent, qualified actuaries.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 89 26.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Movement in deficit during the year: 2005 2004 m m Deficit at 1 January 713 705 Total pension credit expense 121 99 Employer contribution 215 150 Actuarial loss 74 70 Exchange adjustment 21 11 Deficit at 31 December 472 713 Unrecognised past service cost 1 1 Pension and post retirement liability on Balance Sheet 473 714 Deferred tax in respect of net pension and post retirement liability 103 170 Net liability on Balance Sheet 370 544 The amounts recognised in the Income Statement are as follows: 2005 2004 UK US Other Total Total m m m m m Current service cost 64 4 6 74 80 Interest cost 221 23 12 256 246 Expected return on scheme assets 226 19 12 257 241 Past service cost benefit 4 11 1 6 22 Gains on curtailment 182 6 188 8 Total included in staff costs 119 9 7 121 99 The actuarial loss recognised in equity is as follows: 2005 2004 UK US Other Total Total m m m m m Actual return on scheme assets 652 16 23 691 386 Less: expected return on scheme assets 226 19 12 257 241 Actual return on assets in excess of expected 426 3 11 434 145 Experience losses gains on liabilities 66 1 17 50 87 Change in actuarial assumptions 429 1 28 458 302 Actuarial losses on pension benefits 69 5 74 70 2005 2004 UK US Other Total Total %%%% % Gains losses between expected and actual return as a percentage of scheme assets 11.2 1.2 6.7 10.3 3.5 Experience losses gains as a percentage of scheme liabilities 1.5 0.3 8.6 1.0 1.8 Total actuarial loss to be recognised in Statement of Recognised Income and Expense as a percentage of scheme liabilities 1.1 1.3 1.1 1.3 The accumulated actuarial losses since 1 January 2004 are 144m 2004: 70m.
Royal & SunAlliance 90 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the financial statements continued 26.
Retirement benefit obligations continued 2005 2004 UK US Other Total Total m m m m m Present value of funded obligations 4,763 377 194 5,334 4,844 Present value of unfunded obligations 12 41 52 105 95 Present value of obligations 4,775 418 246 5,439 4,939 Equities 2,141 159 106 2,406 2,076 Bonds 1,947 122 99 2,168 1,831 Cash 124 6 2 132 103 Property 261 261 216 Total assets in the schemes 4,473 287 207 4,967 4,226 Net deficit 302 131 39 472 713 Unrecognised past service credit 11 1 Net liability on Balance Sheet 302 131 40 473 714 Analysed: Defined benefit pension schemes 302 112 12 426 659 Other post retirement benefits 192847 55 Net liability on Balance Sheet 302 131 40 473 714 To be settled within 12 months 86 86 97 To be settled after 12 months 216 131 40 387 617 The following is a reconciliation of the Groups retirement benefit obligation: 2005 2004 m m Retirement benefit obligation at 1 January 4,939 4,633 Current service costs 74 80 Past service benefits costs 6 22 Interest costs 256 246 Contributions by scheme participants 10 4 Actuarial loss on obligations 508 215 Gain on curtailments 188 8 Benefits paid 229 227 Exchange rate adjustment 75 26 Retirement benefit obligation at 31 December 5,439 4,939 The following is a reconciliation of the Groups pension scheme assets: 2005 2004 m m Pension scheme assets at 1 January 4,226 3,928 Expected return on scheme assets 257 241 Actual return on assets in excess of expected 434 145 Contributions by the employer 215 150 Contributions by scheme participants 10 4 Benefits paid 229 227 Exchange rate adjustment 54 15 Pension scheme assets at 31 December 4,967 4,226 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 91 26.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The principal actuarial assumptions used were as follows: UK US Other 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 % % % % % % Assumptions used in calculation of retirement benefit obligation: Discount rate 4.7 5.2 5.8 5.8 5.0 6.0 Annual rate of general inflation 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.0 2.0 Annual rate of increase in salaries 4.0 4.0 3.7 4.8 4.1 4.0 Annual rate of increase in pensions 2.5 2.5 2.0 2.0 Assumptions used in calculation of Income Statement credit charge in year: Discount rate 5.2 5.4 5.8 6.0 6.0 6.5 Expected return on: Equities 7.3 7.3 9.0 9.0 8.0 9.5 Bonds 4.5 4.8 6.0 6.0 5.5 6.0 Other 6.1 6.3 2.0 2.0 3.5 3.0 The weighted average expected return on assets across the Group for 2005 was 6.1% 2004: 6.3%.
The assumptions made for the expected return on assets have been derived by considering best estimates for the expected long term real rates of return from the main asset classes and from rates of return assumed elsewhere within the operation of the business.
The mortality assumptions are set following investigations of the main schemes recent experience by the scheme actuaries for their funding valuations.
The last such valuations were carried out in 2004 and the next ones are due in 2006.
Following the last investigations, the mortality assumptions adopted used the PMA92 and PFA92 mortality tables for males and females respectively, with age ratings to reflect the schemes recent experience compared with that expected under these tables.
Reductions in future mortality rates were allowed for using the medium cohort projection and using the projected mortality rates applicable to calendar year 2012 for current pensioners and 2030 for future pensioners.
The weighted average assumptions imply that a current pensioner aged 60 has an expected future lifetime of 24.7 years males and 26.8 years females and a future pensioner aged 60 has a future lifetime of 26.1 years males and 28.1 years females.
The valuation of liabilities for post retirement benefits in the US assumes a pre 65 premium inflation rate of 8% decreasing to 5% by 2012 2004: 9% decreasing to 5% by 2011 and a post 65 premium inflation rate of 10% decreasing to 5% by 2014 2004: 11% decreasing to 5% by 2013.
The valuation of liabilities for post retirement liabilities in Canada assumes 10% decreasing to 5% in 10 years for drugs 2004: 8% decreasing to 5% in nine years and 4% 2004: 4% for hospitals and 3% 2004: 3% for other.
The effect of an increase of one percentage point and the effect of a decrease of one percentage point in the assumed medical cost trend rates on the following is set out below: 1% increase 1% decrease 2005 2004 2005 2004 m m m m Aggregate of the current service cost and interest components of net periodic post employment medical costs 0.3 0.5 0.3 0.3 Accumulated post employment benefit obligation for medical costs 3.1 4.1 2.5 3.5 27.
Share based payment The Group has four types of share based payment plans which are settled in the form of ordinary shares: the Executive Share Option Scheme: the Equity Incentive Scheme for US Employees: the International Sharesave Plan: and the Share Matching Plan.
Dilution levels for all schemes are held strictly within ABI limits.
In addition, in the US there are a number of cash settled share based payment plans.
The total employment cost recorded in the Income Statement for all plans was 9m in 2005 2004:4m.
These costs include the costs associated with plans which are settled in the form of ordinary shares for awards that have been granted after 7 November 2002.
The value of equity settled awards granted prior to this date have been excluded in accordance with the transitional provisions contained in IFRS 2 Share Based Payment.
Royal & SunAlliance 92 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the financial statements continued 27.
Share based payment continued Executive Share Option Scheme and Equity Incentive Scheme for US Employees The Group operates an Executive Share Option Scheme and an Equity Incentive Scheme for US Employees, which provide options to purchase ordinary shares to officers and other key employees at prices not less than the fair value of the ordinary shares at the date of grant.
The exercise of awards made under the Equity Incentive Scheme for US Employees can be accelerated dependent on the performance of the US subsidiary to between one and three years.
The performance conditions in respect of awards under the Executive Share Option Scheme are described in the footnote to the options table audited part on page 51.
The exercise price of all options is the fair value of the ordinary shares on the date of grant.
All options expire 10 years after the date of the grant.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 93 27.
Share based payment continued Under the schemes, the weighted average estimated fair value per option granted by the Company during 2005 was 27.42p 2004: 26.07p.
The fair value of the share options granted under the plans during 2005 was 8m 2004: 5m.
The value of the awards is charged in the Income Statement over the vesting period.
Fair values for the options granted under the schemes were estimated as of the date of grant using the Black Scholes pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions: dividend yields of 5.0% 2004: 6.0% : expected volatilities of 50% 2004: 55% : risk free interest rates of 4.4% 2004: 4.8% : expected terms of five years for Executive Share Option Scheme grants made prior to the 2003 AGM, four years for Executive Share Option Scheme grants made after the 2003 AGM and four years for grants made under the Equity Incentive Scheme for US Employees: and the assumption that all performance criteria are expected to be met.
An estimate based on past experience is made of the number of forfeitures during the vesting period due to employees leaving the Group.
International Sharesave Plan Under the Groups International Sharesave Plan savings related eligible employees can receive options to purchase ordinary shares at a price equal to 80% of the fair value of the ordinary shares on the date of grant.
All options vest either three or five years from the grant date and expire six months after vesting.
The number of shares available for purchase from the plan by each participant is limited to the whole number of shares purchasable from the aggregate value of the individuals savings contract upon maturity.
An individuals maximum monthly contribution to all current savings contracts is 250.
Royal & SunAlliance 94 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the financial statements continued 27.
Share based payment continued Under the International Sharesave Plan, the weighted average estimated fair value per option granted by the Company during 2005 was 36.62p 2004: 28.09p.
The fair value of share options granted under the International Sharesave Plan during 2005 was 6m 2004: 6m.
Fair values for the options granted under the International Sharesave Plan were estimated as of the date of grant using the Black Scholes pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions: dividend yields of 5.0% 2004: 6.0% : expected volatilities of 50% 2004: 55% : risk free interest rates of 4.2% 2004: 4.8% : and expected terms equal to the vesting terms of three or five years.
Share Matching Plan The Groups Share Matching Plan for executive directors and other selected executives was adopted following approval obtained at the 2004 AGM.
Awards were made during 2004 and 2005 and the awards granted in 2005 were the final awards under the plan.
The performance conditions in respect of awards under the Share Matching Plan are described in the footnote to the options table audited part on page 52.
Under the plan, Deferred Share awards granted are held in trust for three years and are normally forfeited upon an employee leaving the Group.
No further performance conditions apply.
Participants may also receive Matching Share awards up to a maximum of three times the number of Deferred Shares awarded.
Matching Share awards are subject to the achievement of total shareholder return targets over a single two year period, with performance measured by comparison against other UK listed companies.
Matching Share awards vest with the Deferred Share awards on the third anniversary of the date of grant to the extent that the performance conditions have been met.
Further information on the Share Matching Plan may be found in the footnote to the long term incentive scheme table audited part on page 52.
Additional information with respect to Deferred and Matching Share awards at 31 December is as follows: 2005 2004 Shares Price Shares Price Outstanding Deferred Share awards at 1 January 1,559,056 Granted 2,704,444 1,593,302 Exercised 25,374 Forfeited 162,958 34,246 Outstanding Deferred Share awards at 31 December 4,075,168 1,559,056 Potential Matching Share awards 12,225,504 4,677,168 Total potential share awards outstanding at 31 December 16,300,672 6,236,224 Price refers to weighted average exercise price in sterling pence.
Under the Share Matching Plan, the fair values of each Deferred Share award granted by the Company during 2005 was 71.40p 2004: 66.24p and the fair value of each potential Matching Share award was 23.80p 2004: 22.08p.
The total fair value of the awards granted under the plan during 2005 was 4m 2004: 2m.
The fair value of the Deferred Share awards was calculated based upon the ordinary share price at grant date after deducting from it the estimated value of the dividends that will not be received during the vesting period.
The fair value of the potential Matching Share awards was estimated by calculating the expected value arising from modelling the awards that would arise under different performance scenarios.
Other share based payments In the US, there are plans under which awards have been granted to certain employees in the form of cash settled share based awards.
Under these plans, if the vesting conditions are satisfied, cash awards are made based upon the underlying performance of the Companys ordinary shares.
Awards were made in 1999 and 2001 under old schemes and during 2004 and 2005 on terms that provide the same potential benefits as the Share Matching Plan.
The liability in respect of these plans at 31 December 2005 was 1m 2004: nil.
The intrinsic value of awards that had vested at 31 December 2005 was nil 2004: nil.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 95 28.
Management of risks As an insurance company, the Group is fundamentally concerned with the management of risk.
This note summarises these risks and the way the Group manages them.
As set out in the Corporate Governance report, the Groups Board defines the risk appetite of the organisation.
The Group employs a comprehensive risk management framework to identify, assess, manage and monitor the risks arising as a result of operating the business.
The framework includes a comprehensive suite of risk policies, procedures, measurement and monitoring techniques and a series of stress tests and scenario analyses to ensure that the Groups exposures do not exceed risk appetite.
The Group is exposed to financial risk through its financial assets, financial liabilities investment contracts and borrowings, reinsurance assets and insurance liabilities.
In particular the key financial risk is that the proceeds from the realisation of its financial assets are not sufficient to fund the obligations arising from its insurance and investment contracts.
The Group manages its financial assets within a framework that has been developed to seek to ensure the ability to meet its obligations under insurance and investment contracts.
A key principle behind this process is to hold assets that provide a broad match against the liabilities arising from insurance and investment contracts.
Risks arise within the investment portfolio from the inappropriate matching of cash and fixed interest assets against liabilities by duration eg inflation and reinvestment risk.
However, the relatively short duration of a general insurance portfolio together with the Groups strategy of broadly matching assets and liabilities by duration provides mitigation against these risks.
The Group reviews the duration of its liabilities and asset portfolios to ensure that they remain broadly matched.
Regional investment directives limit permissible duration ranges within the individual portfolios.
These directives also include objectives for liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality.
The components of risk credit, market, liquidity and insurance and reinsurance risks are addressed below: Credit risk The Board Risk Committee BRC is responsible for ensuring that the Board approved Group credit risk appetite is not exceeded.
In defining its risk appetite the Group draws a distinction between credit risks incurred as a result of offsetting insurance risks or operating in the insurance market eg reinsurance credit risks and insurance operations credit risks for which risk tolerances and target profiles are identified, and credit risks incurred for the purposes of generating a return eg invested assets credit risk for which strict exposure limits are set.
The Group controls its credit exposures according to a series of Group credit risk policies that reflects the individual considerations of the risk categories.
These policies are supported by a series of procedures eg counterparty assessment processes and limits eg investment and bank counterparty limits, which are designed to ensure that the Groups risk appetite is not exceeded.
Reinsurance counterparties are subject to a rigorous internal assessment process on an ongoing basis to ensure that their creditworthiness continues to be satisfactory.
Collateral is taken to mitigate exposures where appropriate to the size or credit quality of the exposure.
Further discussion on credit risk arising from reinsurance ceded is discussed within the section below on reinsurance risk.
Insurance operations credit risks are incurred on a devolved basis with regional operations undertaking the responsibility for assessing and monitoring the creditworthiness of their counterparties eg brokers and policyholders.
Local credit committees are responsible for ensuring these exposures are within the risk appetite of the local operations within the overall financial control framework.
Exposure monitoring and reporting is embedded throughout the organisation with aggregate credit positions reported at Group level.
Invested assets credit risk is discussed in more detail below.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk can be set out as follows: 2005 2004 Maximum Maximum credit risk credit risk carrying value carrying value m m Cash and cash equivalents 1,617 1,866 Debt securities 11,609 11,158 Other financial assets 146 137 Short term investments 95 183 Derivative assets 31 30 Insurance debtors 1,978 1,867 Reinsurance debtors 569 817 Reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities 4,406 4,424 Royal & SunAlliance 96 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the financial statements continued 28.
Management of risks continued The Groups investments comprise a broad range of financial investments issued principally in the UK, US and Scandinavia.
The mix of investments and their carrying values which include fixed maturities and equity securities is set out below.
Analysis of debt securities The credit profile of the Groups fixed income portfolios reflects the Groups commitment to matching its liabilities with investment rated liquid instruments for the protection of the policyholder.
The ratings set out above are assigned by Standard & Poors.
Includes UK government guaranteed fixed income securities that are not rated.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 97 28.
Management of risks continued Analysis of equity securities The Groups equity portfolio is diversified as follows across sectors: 2005 2004 m % m % By country region UK 1,077 64 1,017 61 US 82 5 95 6 Scandinavia 11 1 17 1 International 513 30 528 32 Total 1,683 100 1,657 100 By industry Banks 217 13 360 22 Pharmaceuticals 80 5 77 5 Insurance 82 5 69 4 Manufacturing 83 5 62 4 Utilities 101 6 104 6 Construction 22 1 30 2 Mining 183 11 142 9 Retail 52 3 65 4 Telecommunications 70 4 86 5 Services 155 9 201 12 Other 638 38 461 27 Total 1,683 100 1,657 100 Maturity periods or contractual repricing The following table summarises the contractual repricing or maturity dates whichever is earlier for financial assets and financial liabilities, that are subject to fixed and variable interest rates.
Equity instruments are not subject to interest rate risk.
Less than One to Two to Three to Four to Greater than one year two years three years four years five years five years Total m m m m m m m 2005 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 1,617 1,617 Debt securities 2,615 2,147 1,734 1,520 999 2,594 11,609 Other financial assets 104 1 8 1 32 146 Short term investments 95 95 Derivative assets 1355224 31 Total 4,444 2,153 1,739 1,530 1,002 2,630 13,498 Financial liabilities Borrowings: Secured debenture loans 111124 10 Amounts owed to credit institutions unsecured: Under committed credit facilities 233 233 Other 8 8 Subordinated guaranteed US$ bonds 285 285 Subordinated guaranteed Euro bonds 341 341 Subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes 445 445 Derivative trading liabilities 20 11 99 130 Total 262 1 1 1 13 1,174 1,452 Royal & SunAlliance 98 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the financial statements continued 28.
Management of risks continued Less than One to Two to Three to Four to Greater than one year two years three years four years five years five years Total m m m m m m m 2004 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 1,866 1,866 Debt securities 3,056 1,989 1,903 1,230 959 2,021 11,158 Other financial assets 97 3 7 30 137 Short term investments 183 183 Derivative assets 12 43326 30 Total 5,214 1,993 1,909 1,240 991 2,027 13,374 Financial liabilities Borrowings: Secured debenture loans 111115 10 Amounts owed to credit institutions unsecured: Under committed credit facilities 84 233 317 Other 19 2 1 22 Subordinated guaranteed US$ bonds 255 255 Subordinated guaranteed Euro bonds 352 352 Subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes 444 444 Derivative trading liabilities 9 23 93 125 Total 113 259 2 1 1 1,149 1,525 Market risk The Group is exposed to the risk of potential losses from adverse movements in market rates and prices as follows: Interest rate risk, Equity price risk, Property price risk, Foreign currency exchange risk, Derivatives.
The investment risk policy governs the Groups exposure to market risks.
Exposures are controlled by the setting of investment limits in line with the Groups risk appetite.
The Group Investment Committee GIC, on behalf of the Group Board, is responsible for reviewing and approving the investment strategy for the Groups investment portfolios.
It provides approval for all major changes of the Groups investment strategy and, in particular, approves any substantive changes to the balance of the Groups funds between the major asset classes.
Importantly the GIC also approves the terms of reference of the Groups main operational investment committee, the Group Asset Management Committee GAMC.
The BRC issues GAMC with risk limits.
Interest rate risk The fair value of the Groups portfolio of fixed income securities is inversely correlated to changes in the market interest rates.
Thus if interest rates fall the fair value of the portfolio would tend to rise and vice versa as set out in the sensitivity analysis.
Equity price risk The Groups portfolio of equity securities is subject to equity risk arising from changes in market price.
Thus if the value of equities rise so will the fair value of its portfolio and vice versa as set out in the sensitivity analysis.
The Group sets appropriate risk limits to ensure that no significant concentrations to individual companies or sectors arise.
The Group takes a long term view in selecting stocks and looks to build value over a sustained period of time rather than churning the portfolio looking for short term gains from its equity holdings.
The Group makes use of derivative products as appropriate to protect the portfolio from losses outside of risk appetite.
The Group does not have material holdings of unquoted equities.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 99 28.
Management of risks continued Property price risk The Groups portfolio of properties is subject to property price risk arising from changes in the market value of properties.
Thus if the value of property falls so will the fair value of the portfolio as set out in the sensitivity analysis.
A number of the Groups property holdings are Group occupied and therefore appear as property and equipment within the reported accounts.
The Groups investment in investment property is recorded as such and is invested in as part of an efficient portfolio management strategy.
Foreign currency exchange risk The Group operates in 28 countries.
Accordingly, its net assets are subject to foreign currency exchange rate movements.
The Groups primary foreign currency exposures are to the US dollar, Canadian dollar, Danish kroner, Swedish krona and Euro.
If the value of the British pound strengthens then the value of non British pound net assets will decline when translated into British pounds and consolidated.
The Group incurs exposure to foreign currency exchange risk in two ways: Operational foreign currency exchange risk by underwriting liabilities in currencies other than the currency of the primary environment in which the business units operate non functional currencies, Structural foreign currency exchange risk by investing in overseas subsidiaries and operating an international insurance group.
Operational foreign currency exchange risk is managed within the Groups individual operations by broadly matching assets and liabilities by currency.
Structural foreign currency exchange risk is managed at a Group level.
In managing structural foreign currency exchange risk net assets maintained by the Groups subsidiaries in local currencies are taken into account to satisfy local regulatory solvency and internal risk based capital assessment requirements.
These assets should prove adequate to support local insurance activities irrespective of foreign currency exchange rate movements.
Consequently, this may affect the value of the consolidated shareholders equity expressed in British pounds.
Derivatives The Group may use derivative financial instruments for the purpose of reducing its exposure to adverse fluctuations in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity price risk.
The Group does not use derivatives to leverage its exposure to markets and does not hold or issue financial instruments for speculative purposes.
In addition forward contracts may be used to reduce exposure to adverse currency movements on loan capital in the Parent Company.
Forward contracts are used to reduce the risk of adverse currency movements on certain forecast future cash transactions.
The policy on use of derivatives is approved by BRC.
While these derivative instruments are subject to fluctuations in value, such fluctuations are generally offset by the changes in value of the underlying exposures.
Derivatives are generally held until their maturity date.
Remaining life Notional principal amounts Fair value Less than One to More than one year five years five years 2005 2004 2005 2004 m m m m m m m Cross currency Asset 5 141 Liability 1 30 1 1 1 Interest rate Asset 13 5 Liability 13 2 Credit Asset 23 38 38 23 25 Liability 2 11 99 226 289 112 121 Equity index Asset 8 see below see below 8 Liability 17 see below see below 17 1 At 31 December 2005 there were derivative contracts in place to protect the value of the UK equity portfolios of the Group.
These provided limited protection against declines in market levels whilst also capping participation in any appreciation of the market.
In total, this strategy covered an underlying equity value of approximately 500m.
The impact of these derivatives as of 31 December 2005 if world equity markets decreased by 15% would be to decrease the impact of the decline by 18m 2004: 25m.
Royal & SunAlliance 10 0 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the financial statements continued 28.
Management of risks continued Sensitivity analysis Change in fair value of investments and borrowings note 1 and note 5 Decrease increase 2005 2004 m m Interest rate markets note 2 : Impact on fixed interest securities of increase in interest rates of 100bps 295 299 Impact on loan capital of increase in interest rates of 100bps 132 112 Equity markets note 3 : Decrease of equity markets of 15% 252 249 Impact arising from derivatives 18 25 Property markets note 3 : Decrease of property markets of 15% 65 63 Currency markets note 4 : Decrease of major currencies versus British pound of 15% 1,154 1,028 Impact arising from derivatives 18 Notes 1.
This analysis assumes that there is no correlation between equity price, interest rate, property market and foreign currency exchange rate risks.
It also assumes that all other assets and liabilities remain unchanged and that no management action is taken.
This analysis does not represent managements view of future market change.
The sensitivity of the bond assets of the Group has been modelled by reference to a reasonable approximation of the average interest rate sensitivity of the investments held within each of the portfolios.
The effect of movements in equity and property markets is reflected as a one time decrease of worldwide equity and property markets on 1 January 2006 and 1 January 2005 which results in a 15% decline in the value of the Groups assets in these investment categories.
The effect of currency movements on investments is reflected as a one time decrease in the value of major currencies against the British pound on 1 January 2006 and 1 January 2005.
This analysis has not considered the impact of the above market changes on the valuation of the Groups insurance liabilities.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that cash may not be available to pay obligations when due at a reasonable cost.
The Group has no appetite for incurring liquidity risk and is committed to meeting all liabilities as they fall due.
The investment limits ensure the Groups portfolio is kept in highly liquid marketable securities sufficient to meet its liabilities as they come due based on actuarial assessment.
The limits are monitored at a Group level as part of the Group Risk exposure monitoring and BRC reporting process.
In addition the Group has committed credit facilities available as set out in note 22.
Insurance risk The Groups insurance activities are primarily concerned with the pricing, acceptance and management of risks from its customers.
In accepting risk the Group is committing to the payment of claims and therefore these risks must be understood and controlled.
The Group manages its exposure to insurance risk through the BRC which considers aggregation of risk and establishes how much risk the Group is willing to assume.
The BRC also oversees an emerging risk identification process, including the identification of emerging issues and the setting of these into risk scenarios as part of an overall process of self appraisal.
For a portfolio of insurance contracts where the theory of probability is applied to pricing and provisioning, the principal risk that the Group faces under its insurance contracts is that the actual claims and benefit payments exceed the expected amount of the insurance liabilities.
This could occur because the frequency or severity of claims and benefits payable are greater than estimated.
Insurance events are random and the actual number and amount of claims and benefits will vary from year to year from the estimate established using statistical techniques.
Experience shows that the larger the portfolio of similar insurance contracts, the smaller will be the relative variability about the expected outcome.
In addition, a more diversified portfolio is less likely to be affected across the board by a change in any subset of the portfolio.
The Group has developed its insurance underwriting strategy to diversify the type of insurance risks accepted and within each of these categories to achieve a sufficiently large population of risks to reduce the variability of the expected outcome.
Further discussion on underwriting risk, estimation of claims provisions, emerging and legal risks and aggregation of risks is set out below.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 10 1 28.
Management of risks continued Underwriting risk Disciplined underwriting, encompassing risk assessment, risk management, pricing and exposure control is critical to the Groups success.
The Group has an Underwriting and Claims Policy statement that clearly identifies the approach to be adopted in respect of risk selection and management, pricing adequacy, identification and management of aggregation to exposure and claims handling and servicing.
These principles are adapted to local market, legal and regulatory environments and further embodied in detailed underwriting procedures.
The goal is for its underwriters to be in a position to: Understand and assess each risk, Make appropriate decisions within their area of competence and authority limits, Differentiate between risks, Apply suitable terms and conditions in order to manage the portfolio, Control exposure, Improve the predictability of the loss experience and make appropriate use of the Groups technical capacity.
In establishing prices, each of the Groups businesses has access to extensive customer data from its own records and access to appropriate market data.
Each of the Groups underwriters has a specific license that sets clear parameters for the business they can underwrite, based on the competence of the individual underwriter.
Additionally, the Group has a centrally managed forum looking at Group underwriting issues, reviewing and agreeing underwriting direction and setting policy and directives where appropriate.
The management of the underwriting and claims risks uses a number of key tools, including the licensing of business units to write certain higher risk classes of business, reviewing the performance and management of all the individual insurance portfolios throughout the Group and the investigation of potential emerging insurance risks.
Pricing for property and casualty products is generally based upon historical claims frequencies and claims severity averages, adjusted for inflation and trended forward to recognise anticipated changes in claims patterns.
While claims remain the Groups principal cost, allowance is also made in the pricing procedures for acquisition expenses, administration expenses, investment income, the cost of reinsurance and for a profit loading that adequately covers the cost of the capital exposed to risk.
Specific considerations in relation to casualty insurance risks and property insurance risks are set out below: Casualty insurance risks The Group manages these risks through its underwriting strategy, adequate reinsurance arrangements and proactive claims handling.
The underwriting strategy attempts to ensure that the underwritten risks are well diversified in terms of type and amount of risk, industry and geography.
Underwriting limits are in place to enforce appropriate risk selection criteria.
For example, the Group has the right not to renew individual policies, it can impose deductibles and it has the right to reject the payment of a fraudulent claim.
In certain territories, legislation requires that the maximum loss under each employers liability contract is never lower than a prescribed amount.
All the Group employers liability contracts offer maximum cover in compliance with such minimums.
Reinsurance arrangements in place include excess, stop loss and catastrophe coverage.
The effect of such reinsurance arrangements is that the Group should not suffer total net insurance losses of more than a specified amount in any one year.
In addition to the overall Group reinsurance programme, individual business units are permitted to purchase additional reinsurance protection.
The Group has specialised claims units dealing with the mitigation of risks surrounding known asbestos claims.
These units investigate and adjust all asbestos claims.
The asbestos claims are reviewed individually at least semi annually and adjusted to reflect the latest information on the underlying facts, current law, jurisdiction, contractual terms and conditions, and other factors.
The Group actively manages and pursues early settlements of asbestos claims to reduce its exposure to unpredictable developments.
Property insurance Property insurance covers a diverse collection of risks and therefore property insurance contracts are subdivided into four risk groups: fire, business interruption, weather damage and theft.
The insurance risk arising from these contracts is not concentrated in any of the territories in which the Group operates, and there is a balance between commercial and personal properties in the overall portfolio of insured buildings.
Large risks are reinsured via treaty reinsurance arrangements.
The Group has the right to re price the risk on renewal.
It also has the ability to impose deductibles and reject fraudulent claims.
These contracts are underwritten by reference to the commercial replacement value of the properties and contents insured, and claims payment limits are always included to limit the amount payable on occurrence of the insured event.
Cost of rebuilding properties, of replacement or indemnity for contents and time taken to restart operations for business interruption are the key factors that influence the level of claims under these policies.
The greatest likelihood of significant losses on these contracts arises from storm, flood damage or other weather related incidents.
The Group has reinsurance cover for such damage to limit losses.
Royal & SunAlliance 10 2 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the financial statements continued 28.
Management of risks continued Estimation of claims provisions non asbestos reserves Reserves are analysed by line of business within the various regions.
A single line of business may be written in one or more of the regions.
Case reserves are established on each individual claim and are adjusted as new information becomes known during the course of handling the claim.
Lines of business for which claims data eg paid claims and case reserves emerge over a long period of time are referred to as long tail lines of business.
Lines of business for which claims data emerge more quickly are referred to as short tail lines of business.
Within the Groups operations a typical short tail line of business is property.
The longest tail lines of business include personal accident in Scandinavia, workers compensation in the US, commercial liability and professional liability.
Our reserving managers regularly review reserves for both current and prior accident years using the most current claims data.
These reserve reviews incorporate a variety of actuarial methods and judgements and involve extensive analysis.
For most lines of business a variety of actuarial methods are reviewed and the reserving managers select methods and specific assumptions appropriate for each line of business based on the current circumstances affecting that line of business.
These selections incorporate input from claims personnel, underwriters and operating management on reported claims trends and other factors that could affect the reserve estimates.
For short tail lines of business, development of paid claims and case reserves is reliable and indicative of ultimate losses.
The method used is based on the amount of paid and case estimates for reported claims.
For long tail lines of business, initial development of paid claims and case reserves is less reliable and, accordingly, may not be fully indicative of ultimate losses.
For this reason, within these lines, methods which incorporate a development pattern assumption are given less weight in calculating the reserves for the early stages of loss development.
The estimation of reserves for these lines of business in the early stages of claims development is therefore largely influenced by prior accident years loss ratios and changes to pricing, claims costs, mix of business, ceded reinsurance and other factors that are expected to affect the loss ratio.
For later periods of loss emergence, methods which incorporate a development pattern assumption are given more weight in estimating ultimate losses.
Based on the results of the reserve reviews and after consideration of other factors such as the maturity of the accident year, trends observed over the recent past and the level of volatility within a particular line of business, we determine the appropriate level of reserves to book.
The Group is a multi line multi national property and casualty insurer.
It is therefore subject to reserve uncertainty stemming from a number of conditions, including but not limited to those noted above, any of which could be material at any point in time for any line of business.
Certain issues may become more or less important over time as conditions change.
As various market conditions develop, we must assess whether those conditions constitute a long term trend that should result in a reserving action ie increasing or decreasing the reserve.
Estimation of claims provisions asbestos reserves The Group has exposure to liabilities for asbestos related losses arising from the sale of commercial liability and multi peril policies prior to 1987.
After 1987, policy wordings contained more prescriptive, and in many cases absolute, exclusions for these types of exposure thereby considerably reducing the potential for loss.
In the US, coverages provided under which these liabilities have emerged were in most cases with smaller commercial customers and involved small policy aggregate limits and limits to coverage.
The Group wrote a limited amount of excess coverage in the US, most of which were excess policies on top of our own primary covers as opposed to primary policies written by other insurers.
As a result, to a large extent, the Group was able to maintain underwriting and policy wording discipline.
Excess policies are insurance policies which provide coverage in excess of the policy limits of another insurance policy, sometimes referred to as the primary policy.
In other words, primary policies provide insurance coverage only to a defined limit of liability.
Excess policies provide additional coverage beyond this liability limit.
In the UK, asbestos liabilities have emerged most frequently in the employers liability line.
This coverage indemnifies individuals injured in the workplace.
The effect of reinsurance purchased against large individual losses is dampened by the often multi year nature of the liabilities which means a deductible for each year of exposure applies.
Reserving for asbestos claims is subject to a range of uncertainties that are generally greater than those presented by other types of claims.
These include long reporting delays, unresolved legal issues on policy coverage and the identity of the insureds.
As a consequence, traditional loss reserving techniques cannot wholly be relied on and we have employed specialised techniques to determine reserves in a prudent manner using the extensive knowledge of both internal asbestos experts and external legal and professional advisors.
UK risks written in the UK The majority of business in this area is employers liability EL written through our UK Commercial business with a small amount of public and products liability.
The underlying method for the estimation of asbestos requirements for UK EL depends critically on establishing a distribution of expected deaths from asbestos related disease, which is then adjusted to allow for the delay between claim and death of claimant.
Calibration of the resultant distribution to Group experience of reported claims allows an estimate of future numbers of claims against the Group to be produced.
Average claim cost is monitored from claim notifications over time and, from this data, after adjustment for inflation, a view is taken of current average claims cost taking into account evidence of trends etc.
The average costs observed will reflect the proportion of claims cost being borne by the Group as a result of current sharing agreements amongst insurers, which in turn reflects the Groups proportion of claimant exposure periods.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 10 3 28.
Management of risks continued UK Government Health & Safety Executive projections of probable numbers of future deaths from mesothelioma, published in December 2003, have been used as the basis to determine our UK reserves for future expected asbestos cases and we have applied this to our average cost, which is adjusted to allow for future inflation.
The effect of using this data on our reserves is to increase the anticipated number of asbestos claims which are spread over an extended reporting period.
US risks written in the UK US asbestos exposure arises from a variety of sources including: London market direct business written through Marine operations many years ago, inward reinsurance exposures also written through the London market and from participation in UK aviation pools.
In establishing reserves for US asbestos claims we evaluate each insureds estimated liability for such claims using a ground up approach.
We consider a variety of factors, including the state where underlying claims have been brought, past, current and anticipated future claim activity, disease mix, past settlement amounts for similar claims, dismissal rates, allocated claim adjustment expenses, and potential bankruptcy impact.
Having evaluated the insureds probability for asbestos claims we then evaluate each insureds insurance program for such claims.
We consider each insureds total available coverage, including policies issued by us.
We also consider relevant judicial interpretations of policy language and applicable defences or determinations.
Once the gross ultimate exposure for indemnity and allocated claim adjustment expenses is determined for each insured by each policy year, we calculate our ceded reinsurance projection based on any applicable facultative or treaty reinsurances.
US risks written in the US Claimants include both primary defendants and peripheral defendants.
Primary asbestos defendants manufactured and distributed asbestos products and most are expected to exhaust the majority of available insurance coverage.
The peripheral category is a newer group of defendants brought into litigation due to bankruptcies in the primary defendant group.
Some may have manufactured, distributed or installed asbestos containing products, but exposure is more limited.
Others owned or operated premises where asbestos products were used, giving rise to premises rather than products claims.
A similar approach, to the one outlined above in US risks written in the UK, is used to establish reserves.
Asbestos reserves contain a high degree of uncertainty.
Factors contributing to this higher degree of uncertainty include: Plaintiffs expanding theories of liability, compounded by inconsistent court decisions and judicial interpretations, A few large claims, accompanied by a very large number of small claims or claims made with no subsequent payment, often driven by intensive advertising by lawyers seeking claimants, The tendency for speculative, inflated and or unsupported claims to be made to insurers, with the aim of securing a settlement on advantageous terms, The long delay in reporting claims and exposures, since the onset of illness and disability arising from exposure to harmful conditions may only become apparent many years later, for example, cases of mesothelioma can have a latent period of up to 40 years, Inadequate development patterns, Difficult issues of allocation of responsibility among potentially responsible parties and insurers, Complex technical issues that may give rise to delays in notification arising from unresolved legal issues on policy coverage and the identity of the insureds, The tendency for social trends and factors to influence jury verdicts, Developments pertaining to the Groups ability to recover reinsurance for claims of this nature.
The position in the US is particularly problematic, as plaintiffs have expanded their focus to defendants beyond the traditional asbestos manufacturers and distributors.
This has arisen as a consequence of the increase in the number of insureds seeking bankruptcy protection because of asbestos related litigation and the exhaustion of their policy limits.
Plaintiffs, supported by lawyers remunerated on a contingent fee basis, are now seeking to draw in a wide cross section of defendants who previously only had peripheral or secondary involvement in asbestos litigation.
This may include companies which have distributed or incorporated asbestos containing parts in their products or operated premises where asbestos was present.
There are also increasing signs of attempts to reopen and reclassify into other insurance coverages previously settled claims, and the filing of claims under the non aggregate premises or operation section of general liability policies.
There are also indications that plaintiffs may seek damages by asserting that insurers had a duty to protect the public from the dangers of asbestos.
Royal & SunAlliance 10 4 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the financial statements continued 28.
Management of risks continued Emerging and legal risks These are risks that have been identified as potentially affecting the Group but for which the extent of risk has not yet been identified.
Existing or potential future risk exposures are investigated in a structured way, using internal and external resources, and appropriate proposals for actions to mitigate, contain or remove these risks are made to the BRC.
In addition, to the extent that legal decisions in any of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates worldwide may increase court awards, and that the impact may be applied prospectively or retrospectively, claims and benefits provisions may prove insufficient to cover actual losses, loss adjustment expenses or future policy benefits.
In such an event, or where it has been previously estimated that no liability would apply, the Group would add to its loss provisions and incur a charge to earnings.
Such insufficiencies could have a material adverse effect on the Groups future consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cashflows.
In the ordinary course of its insurance activities, the Group is routinely involved in legal or arbitration proceedings with respect to liabilities, which are the subject of policy claims.
As insurance industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge.
These issues can have a negative effect on the Groups business by either extending coverage beyond its underwriting intent or by increasing the number and size of claims.
Aggregation of risks The Group is exposed to multiple insured losses arising out of a single occurrence, whether a natural peril event such as a hurricane, flood or an earthquake, or man made catastrophes such as an explosion or fire at a major industrial facility.
Any such catastrophic event could generate insured losses under one or more of its policies.
The ability of the businesses in each territory to assess the aggregation risk of a single event impacting on thousands of policyholders is vital.
The Group employs proprietary exposure measurement systems to assess these risks.
In some markets, particularly in the UK, the Group has in addition developed its own expertise in catastrophe modelling that is used in conjunction with outside consultants.
The accurate estimation of the potential expected maximum loss for a catastrophe is critical and is the primary factor considered in designing the Groups catastrophe reinsurance programme.
The expertise within the Group on catastrophe modelling is shared through the Worldwide Reinsurance Practice Group, which also provides an overview of the company wide catastrophe exposures and reinsurance adequacy.
A reinsurance program is considered to be adequate only if it covers at least 199 out of 200 possible events by loss size.
This is referred to as the 1 in 200 year expected maximum loss.
Since 1999, the Group has set its total retention for a single catastrophic event based on geographic location.
The subsidiaries of the Group are responsible for buying reinsurance to protect their results against catastrophes and for determining their own retentions.
The Group Corporate Centre reviews the operations proposed catastrophe purchases to check that they at least meet the Groups 1 in 200 year standard.
Group Corporate Centre also checks to see that total Group exposures are within the limits set out above and also are consistent with the required risk based capital.
As a result the Group may decide to purchase further catastrophe coverage at the Group level.
Reinsurance risk The Group reinsures a portion of the risks underwritten to control exposure to losses to reduce volatility and protect capital.
The Groups reinsurance strategy is to purchase reinsurance in the most effective manner from reinsurers who meet its security standards.
The Group uses financial analysis models to assess the risk and reward effects of different reinsurance structures and prices.
The Group remains primarily liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured, although the reinsurer is liable to the Group to the extent of the reinsurance ceded.
To limit the risk that the reinsurer is unable to pay in full, under certain reinsurance agreements the Group holds collateral, including escrow funds and letters of credit.
The Group monitors the financial condition of reinsurers on an ongoing basis, and reviews its reinsurance arrangements regularly to ensure that its total counterparty exposure to individual reinsurance groups is within the limits set by the BRC and the Financial Services Authority for insurers domiciled in the UK.
In selecting the reinsurers with whom the Group does business: Its strategy is to seek reinsurers with the best combination of credit rating, price and capacity.
The Group publishes internally a list of authorised reinsurers who pass its security review process and which its operations may use for new transactions, The Group reviews the financial security of each of its reinsurers having regard to the work of rating agencies and specialist advice from other sources, such as the counterparty risk assessment units of its reinsurance brokers, As part of this review work, the Group assesses public ratings of its reinsurers.
Reinsurers that have a Financial Strength Rating of less than A with Standard & Poors, or a comparable rating with AM Best, are removed from the Groups authorised list unless the Groups own review discovers exceptional circumstances in favour of the reinsurer.
Further, if a rating agency reduces a reinsurers rating, the Group carries out its own review of that reinsurer to see whether it should remain on the list of authorised reinsurers, The BRC sets targets for the credit profile of reinsurers on the Groups treaty purchases.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 10 5 28.
Management of risks continued The Group limits the credit risk exposure to individual captive reinsurers, with whom it deals as part of the commercial lines business, by analysis of their finances and controlling the maximum exposure to each captive each time the reinsurance contract is renewed.
The Group monitors changes in the financial security of all of its reinsurers to see whether their ability to pay recoverables in full is doubtful.
Where a reinsurers ability to pay in full is believed to be doubtful, the Group Corporate Centre sets guidelines for provisioning for uncollectable reinsurance.
These guidelines apply to all operations.
Group Corporate Centre analyses local provisions against the Groups guidelines.
Credit profile of Group reinsurance counterparties The table below sets forth the rating assigned by Standard & Poors to the Groups primary property and casualty treaty reinsurers and the amounts ceded to them under outward reinsurance contracts during 2005 and 2004.
This type of reinsurance requires the reinsurer to assume insurance risk, on a predetermined basis, for all of the contracts underwritten by the Group and that are covered by the treaty.
For each reinsurance group, the table shows the rating category of each reinsurance group as of 31 December 2005 together with the rating category of that reinsurance group as of 1 January 2005.
2005 2004 Ceded treaty S&P rating at Ceded treaty S&P rating at premiums 31 December premiums 1 January Reinsurance group m 2005 m 2005 Munich Re Group 280 A 584 A HDI Group 56 AA 50 AA Lloyds of London 44 A 59 A Renaissance Re Holdings 37 A 55 AA Swiss Re Group 37 AA 40 AA During 2005, over 99% of the Groups property and casualty treaty cessions by premium were to reinsurers that had a Standard & Poors financial strength rating of at least A or better, or equivalent from AM Best, as at the start date of the contract.
The Groups property and casualty facultative placements, other than those with captive reinsurers of its major retail clients, are mainly with the same reinsurers used on treaty placements.
Facultative placements, or risks under facultative treaties, reinsure all or part of a single policy determined on a contract by contract basis.
As of 31 December 2005 total provisions for uncollectable reinsurance were 141m 2004: 129m.
Certain of the Groups subsidiaries are members of government mandated pools in various parts of the world.
As of 31 December 2005 the largest pool by premium volume was Pool Re operated by the UK government to provide terrorism cover.
Hedge accounting At 1 January 2005, the Group designated the loan capital as denominated in foreign currencies as hedging instruments against the net investment in designated subsidiaries to reduce the foreign currency exchange risk exposure.
The book value of the hedging instruments at 31 December 2005 was 626m.
The fair value of the hedging instruments at 31 December 2005 was 735m.
Segment reporting The Groups internal reporting is organised into distinguishable components based on the major geographical regions in which it operates.
These components represent the primary format for reporting segment information.
The secondary segment reporting format is the Groups business segments: Personal and Commercial.
Items of segment revenue, segment expense, segment assets and segment liabilities include amounts of such items that are directly attributable to a segment and amounts of such items that can be allocated to a segment on a reasonable basis.
Items are allocated consistently, such that an item of segment revenue is allocated to the segment that holds the income generating asset.
Royal & SunAlliance 10 6 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the financial statements continued 30.
Segment reporting continued Primary segment geographical Year ended 31 December 2005 Central functions UK Scandinavia International and eliminations Core Group US Group m m m m m m m Gross written premiums 3,359 1,368 1,680 170 6,237 183 6,420 Less: reinsurance premiums 727 44 343 177 937 83 1,020 Net written premiums 2,632 1,324 1,337 7 5,300 100 5,400 Underwriting result 154 65 63 19 263 145 118 Investment income 274 108 116 498 118 616 Realised gains 61 23 25 109 20 129 Unrealised gains losses, impairments and foreign exchange 723 12 12 Unwind of discount 21 18 39 22 61 Investment result 321 115 144 580 116 696 Insurance result 475 180 207 19 843 29 814 Other activities 1 8 2 93 100 16 116 Operating result management basis 474 172 209 112 743 45 698 Amortisation 6 5 11 6 17 Reorganisation costs 37 37 49 86 Benefit from change of pension scheme design180 180 180 Profit on disposal of significant shareholding in Rothschilds 61 61 61 Share of associates 3 3 3 Results of operating activities per Income Statement 617 166 201 51 933 100 833 Interest costs 2 5 100 107 107 Profit loss on disposals of subsidiaries 65 65 71 136 Share of associates net of tax 3 3 3 Profit loss before tax 615 161 204 86 894 29 865 Income tax expense 259 1 260 Profit loss for the year 635 30 605 Other segment items included in the Income Statement: Depreciation and amortisation expenses 38 18 23 4 83 10 93 Other significant non cash expenses include unwind of discount and the benefit from change of pension scheme design.
The segment assets and liabilities at 31 December 2005 and capital expenditure for the year then ended are as follows: Central functions UK Scandinavia International and eliminations Core Group US Group m m m m m m m Segment assets 9,098 4,182 4,991 1,332 19,603 4,893 24,496 Associates 3 2629 29 Income tax assets 3 6 60 3 72 72 Total assets 9,101 4,191 5,051 1,361 19,704 4,893 24,597 Segment liabilities 7,939 3,054 3,901 1,754 16,648 4,524 21,172 Income tax liabilities 26 116 71 75 288 3 291 Total liabilities 7,965 3,170 3,972 1,829 16,936 4,527 21,463 Capital expenditure: Property and equipment 34 13 13 60 1 61 Goodwill and other intangible assets 102 8 72 182 182 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 10 7 30.
Segment reporting continued Year ended 31 December 2004 Central functions UK Scandinavia International and eliminations Core Group US Group m m m m m m m Gross written premiums 3,585 1,326 1,596 156 6,351 304 6,655 Less: reinsurance premiums 1,030 98 410 159 1,379 194 1,573 Net written premiums 2,555 1,228 1,186 3 4,972 110 5,082 Underwriting result 95 54 45 9 185 462 277 Investment income 244 96 103 443 108 551 Realised gains 61 25 26 112 1 113 Unrealised gains losses, impairments and foreign exchange 2 1 1 4 2 2 Unwind of discount 21 29 50 21 71 Investment result 282 91 128 501 90 591 Insurance result 377 145 173 9 686 372 314 Other activities 32 13 4 86 63 7 56 Operating result management basis 409 132 177 95 623 365 258 Amortisation 7 7 14 8 22 Reorganisation costs 62 7 69 49 118 Share of associates 3 9 2 14 14 Results of operating activities per Income Statement 344 125 154 97 526 422 104 Total interest costs 75 75 75 Profit loss on disposals of subsidiaries 1 5 3 9 7 2 Share of associates net of tax 2 6 8 8 Profit loss before tax on continuing operations 346 124 155 175 450 415 35 Income tax expense 111 23 88 Profit loss for the year from continuing operations 339 392 53 Discontinued life 27 27 Profit loss for the year 312 392 80 Other segment items included in the Income Statement: Depreciation and amortisation expenses 23 18 18 5 64 15 79 Other significant non cash expenses include unwind of discount.
The segment assets and liabilities at 31 December 2004 and capital expenditure for the year then ended are as follows: Central functions UK Scandinavia International and eliminations Core Group US Group m m m m m m m Segment assets 9,162 4,016 4,149 154 17,481 6,964 24,445 Associates 3 1 25 29 29 Income tax assets 3 4 37 136 180 180 Total assets 9,165 4,023 4,187 315 17,690 6,964 24,654 Segment liabilities 8,068 2,956 3,308 450 14,782 6,560 21,342 Income tax liabilities 34 91 45 7 177 2 179 Total liabilities 8,102 3,047 3,353 457 14,959 6,562 21,521 Capital expenditure: Property and equipment 17 32 8 57 57 Goodwill and other intangible assets 101 4 20 125 125 Royal & SunAlliance 10 8 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the financial statements continued 30.
Segment reporting continued Secondary segment business Year ended 31 December 2005 Core Group US Central functions Personal Commercial and eliminations Core Group Personal Commercial Total m m m m m m m Gross written premiums from external customers 2,805 3,602 170 6,237 183 6,420 Total assets 5,717 12,626 1,361 19,704 949 3,944 24,597 Capital expenditure: Property and equipment 18 42 60 1 61 Goodwill and other intangible assets 47 135 182 182 Year ended 31 December 2004 Core Group US Central functions Personal Commercial and eliminations Core Group Personal Commercial Total m m m m m m m Gross written premiums from external customers 2,770 3,737 156 6,531 304 6,655 Total assets 5,306 12,069 315 17,690 1,350 5,614 24,654 Capital expenditure: Property and equipment 23 34 57 57 Goodwill and other intangible assets 26 99 125 125 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 10 9 31.
Subsidiaries Country of incorporation Principal activity United Kingdom note 1 Royal Insurance Holdings plc note 2 Holding company Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc General insurance British Aviation Insurance Company Limited 57.1% General insurance The Globe Insurance Company Limited General insurance The Marine Insurance Company Limited General insurance Royal International Insurance Holdings Limited General insurance Royal & Sun Alliance Reinsurance Limited General insurance Sun Alliance and London Insurance plc General insurance Sun Insurance Office Limited General insurance Argentina Royal & Sun Alliance Seguros Argentina SA General insurance La Republica Compania Argentina fide Seguros Generales SA General insurance Bahrain Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Middle East Limited E. C. 50.01% General insurance Brazil Royal & Sun Alliance Seguros Brasil SA General insurance Canada Roins Financial Services Limited Holding company Compagnie dAssurance du Quebec General insurance The Johnson Corporation General insurance Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Company of Canada General insurance Western Assurance Company General insurance Chile Royal & Sun Alliance Seguros Chile SA 97.5% General insurance Compania fide Seguros Generales Cruz del Sur SA General insurance Colombia Royal & Sun Alliance Seguros Colombia SA 86.5% General insurance Denmark Codan A S 71.7% Holding company Codan Forsikring A S 71.7% General insurance Guernsey Insurance Corporation of the Channel Islands Limited General insurance Hong Kong Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Hong Kong Limited General insurance Isle of Man Tower Insurance Company Limited General insurance Mexico Royal & Sun Alliance Seguros Mexico SA General insurance Netherlands Antilles Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Antilles NV 51.0% General insurance Singapore Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Singapore Limited General insurance Sweden Trygg-Hansa Frskrings AB, Publikt 71.7% General insurance United States of America Royal & Sun Alliance USA, Inc Holding company Guaranty National Insurance Company General insurance Royal Indemnity Company General insurance Royal Surplus Lines Insurance Company General insurance Security Insurance Company of Hartford General insurance Uruguay Royal & Sun Alliance Seguros Uruguay SA General insurance Venezuela Royal & Sun Alliance Seguros Venezuela SA 99.9% General insurance Notes: 1.
All UK companies are incorporated in Great Britain and are registered in England.
100% direct subsidiary of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc.
Except where indicated all holdings are of equity shares and represent 100% of the nominal issued capital.
In all cases the proportion of voting power held equals the proportion of ownership interest.
Some subsidiaries have been omitted from this statement to avoid providing particulars of excessive length but none materially affects the results or assets of the Group.
Royal & SunAlliance 1 10 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the financial statements continued 32. Business combinations Acquisition of subsidiaries On 15 November 2005 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Compania fide Seguros Generales Cruz del Sur SA located in Chile and on 1 December 2005 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of La Republic Compania Argentina fide Seguros Generales SA located in Argentina.
The total consideration was 69m and goodwill of 42m arose on the acquisitions.
m Investments 37 Cash and cash equivalents 6 Other assets 79 Insurance contract liabilities 82 Other liabilities 13 Net assets 27 Cash consideration including acquisition costs 69 Goodwill on acquisition 42 Fair value adjustment 4 Goodwill 38 The total income and profit after tax of the acquired entities for the 11 months to 30 November 2005 was 49m and nil respectively.
The total income and profit after tax of the acquired entities for the one month to 31 December 2005 was 5m and nil respectively.
During 2004, the Group acquired for 5m further minority interests in existing subsidiaries.
Disposal of subsidiaries During the year, disposals of subsidiary undertakings and books of business were made for a total consideration of 181m, giving rise to a pre tax profit of 136m.
Group disposals during the year comprise: 1.
The disposal of its Japanese business on 28 February 2005.
The transaction generated proceeds, net of costs, of 59m and generated a pre tax profit of 59m.
The disposal of its specialty US Nonstandard Auto business, Viking Insurance Company of Wisconsin, on 2 November 2005.
The transaction generated proceeds, net of costs, of 112m and generated a pre tax profit of 71m.
The disposal of its Latvian life interests and adjustments relating to prior year disposals generated proceeds of 10m and a pre tax profit of 6m.
The fair value of assets and liabilities disposed of were as follows: m Investments 78 Cash 68 Other assets 37 Technical provisions 123 Other liabilities 15 Profit on disposal 136 Total cash consideration 181 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 111 33.
Cash generated from continuing operations 2005 2004 m m Net profit for the year before tax on continuing operations 865 35 Adjustments for: Depreciation 37 39 Amortisation 56 40 Fair value gains losses including gain loss on disposal on property and equipment 3 10 Fair value gains losses including gain loss on disposal on investments 186 120 Fair value gains losses including gain loss on disposal on investment property 51 27 Impairment charge on available for sale financial assets 5 16 Share of loss profit from associates 3 8 Profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries 136 2 Foreign exchange loss gain 25 32 Amortisation of available for sale investments 70 82 Other non cash movements 24 24 Changes in operating assets liabilities: Movement in technical provisions Unearned premiums 18 664 Outstanding claims 318 135 Movement in working capital 345 802 Movement in deferred acquisition costs 32 201 Reclassification of interest received paid 558 509 Cash generated from continuing operations 462 244 34.
Related party transactions The ultimate Parent Company of the Group is Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc which is incorporated in England.
The following transactions were carried out with related parties: Key management compensation 2005 2004 m m Salaries and other short term employee benefits 5 4 Bonus awards 3 3 Pension benefits 1 1 Share based awards 1 1 Total 10 9 A number of the directors, other key managers, their close families and entities under their control have general insurance policies with subsidiary companies of the Group.
Such policies are on normal commercial terms except that executive directors and key managers are entitled to special rates which are also available to other members of staff.
Year end balances arising from insurance transactions 2005 2004 m m Receivables from associates 1 4 Royal & SunAlliance 1 12 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the financial statements continued 35.
Commitments Capital commitments The Groups significant capital commitments in respect of investment property, property and equipment, intangible assets and associates are detailed in the table below: 2005 2004 m m Property and equipment 4 4 Financial instrument commitments The Group has a number of guarantees and commitments.
Bank loan guarantees In Canada, the Group guarantees outstanding loan repayments in the event of bank loan default by broker subsidiaries and special relationship brokers.
The bank loan guarantees amount in total to 9m 2004: 11m and have a term of up to 10 years.
It is not anticipated that any of the brokers will default, and full recourse is available on any default.
Scandinavia has financial and performance guarantees totalling 2m 2004: 2m.
The fair value of the guarantees did not materially impact the consolidated financial position of the Group.
Financial enhancement products Within the financial enhancement product portfolio of the UK operations, are a number of credit default swaps, residual value insurance contracts, bonds, residential property loan and lease guarantees.
The guarantees are accounted for as derivative instruments at fair value.
The carrying amount of the guarantees in total is a liability of 21m 2004: 29m and the maximum term is 16 years 4 months.
The total maximum potential amount of future payments in respect of these guarantees is 112m 2004: 104m.
There is recourse available on one of the above guarantees of 39m 2004: 38m.
The majority of the guarantee contracts are 100% reinsured with the relating recoverable held as a derivative asset.
Operating lease commitments The Group leases various outlets and offices under non cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
Operating lease commitments where the Group is the lessee The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non cancellable operating leases are as follows: Land and buildings Other 2005 2004 2005 2004 m m m m One year or less 58 62 5 4 Between one and five years 179 186 2 5 After five years 162 182 399 430 7 9 Recoveries under sub tenancies 104 131 Total 295 299 7 9 Operating lease commitments where the Group is the lessor The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non cancellable operating leases are as follows: Land and buildings 2005 2004 m m One year or less 4 9 Between one and five years 4 9 After five years 2 1 Total 10 19 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 11 3 36.
Discontinued operations, non current assets and assets and liabilities of operations held for sale Discontinued operations The UK Life, Codan Life, Poland Life and Peru Life operations part of the Life business segment have been presented as discontinued operations following their sale.
The completion dates for the transactions were 30 September 2004 UK Life, 1 October 2004 Codan Life, 16 April 2004 Poland Life and 1 January 2004 Peru Life.
An analysis of the result of discontinued operations, and the result recognised on the remeasurement of assets of the disposal group is as follows: 2005 2004 m m Net earned premiums 890 Net investment return 1,276 Claims incurred 1,885 Policy acquisition costs 46 Movements in funds for future appropriations 48 Other expenses 93 Profit before tax of discontinued operations 190 Tax 110 Profit after tax of discontinued operations 80 Loss after tax on disposal tax: nil 107 Loss for the year from discontinued operations 27 Non current assets and assets and liabilities of operations held for sale At 31 December 2005 a Group occupied property within the UK segment was presented as held for sale following the decision to dispose of it and the sale being considered highly probable.
At 31 December 2004 the assets and liabilities relating to the Groups operations in Japan part of International segment were presented as held for sale following the approval by the Groups management to sell and initiation of an active programme to locate a buyer.
The disposal transaction was completed in February 2005.
2005 2004 m m Assets Total investments 36 46 Insurance and reinsurance debtors 11 Deferred acquisition costs 2 Other debtors and other assets 7 Cash and cash equivalents 15 Total assets 36 81 Liabilities Insurance contract liabilities 39 Insurance and reinsurance liabilities 4 Other liabilities 34 Total liabilities 77 Royal & SunAlliance 1 14 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Independent auditors report to the members of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of Royal & and Financial review, the Corporate Responsibility section, the Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 Share and shareholder analysis, the Directors Report, the Corporate which comprise the Parent Company Balance Sheet, Statement of Governance statement, the Remuneration Report and the unaudited Changes in Equity of the Parent Company, the Parent Company part of Directors Interests.
We consider the implications for our Cashflow Statement and the related notes on pages 118 to 125. report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material These Parent Company financial statements have been prepared inconsistencies with the Parent Company financial statements.
Our under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
information in the Directors Emoluments and the Directors Interests Basis of audit opinion that is described as having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards We have reported separately on the consolidated financial statements on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc for the year ended An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to 31 December 2005. the amounts and disclosures in the Parent Company financial statements and the sections on Directors Emoluments and the Directors Interests Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors that are described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in Directors Emoluments and the Directors Interests and the Parent the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements, and of Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
European Union are set out in the Directors Report.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Our responsibility is to audit the Parent Company financial statements and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide and the sections on Directors Emoluments and the Directors Interests us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the that are described as having been audited in accordance with relevant Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Emoluments and Directors Interests to be audited are free from Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for of the presentation of information in the Parent Company financial no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume statements and the sections on Directors Emoluments and the responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom Directors Interests that are described as having been audited.
this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Opinion In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the The Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in Parent Company financial statements and the sections on Directors accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as applied Emoluments and the Directors Interests that are described as having in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2005 and Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the cashflows for the year then ended, Directors Report is not consistent with the Parent Company financial The Parent Company financial statements and the sections on statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if Directors Emoluments and the Directors Interests that is described we have not received all the information and explanations we require as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors with the Companies Act 1985. remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
 LLP We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors whether it is consistent with the audited Parent Company financial London statements.
The other information comprises only the Highlights, 8 March 2006 the Key business information, the Chairmans statement, the Group CEOs review, the Royal & SunAlliance today section, the Operating Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 11 5 Parent Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2005 2005 2004 Notes m m Assets Investments 3 4,870 3,981 Amounts owed by subsidiaries 10 1,149 913 Current income tax assets 7 27 63 Deferred tax assets 7 2 Other debtors and other assets 4 7 73 1,185 1,049 Cash and cash equivalents 1 Total assets 6,055 5,031 Equity, reserves and liabilities Equity and reserves Share capital 5 932 926 Subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes 6 444 Reserves 3,174 2,186 Retained earnings 338 3 Total equity and reserves 4,444 3,553 Liabilities Amounts owed to subsidiaries 10 474 808 Loan capital 6 1,071 607 Deferred tax liabilities 7 14 Accruals and other liabilities 66 49 Total liabilities 1,611 1,478 Total equity, reserves and liabilities 6,055 5,031 The attached notes form an integral part of these separate financial statements.
The separate financial statements were approved on 8 March 2006 by the Board of Directors and are signed on its behalf by: George Culmer Chief Financial Officer Royal & SunAlliance 1 16 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Statement of Changes in Equity of the Parent Company for the year ended 31 December 2005 Changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2005 Capital Subordinated Ordinary Ordinary Preference Revaluation redemption guaranteed Retained Total share capital share premium shares reserves reserve perpetual debt earnings equity m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 801 790 125 1,388 8 444 3 3,553 Profit for the year 476 476 Dividends paid note 8 144 144 Issued by scrip 5 13 18 Issued for cash 1 1 2 Share options 9 9 Fair value gains losses net of tax 974 974 Reclassification to debt note 6 444 444 Balance at 31 December 807 804 125 2,362 8 338 4,444 All items are stated net of tax.
Changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2004 Capital Subordinated Ordinary Ordinary Preference Revaluation redemption guaranteed Retained Total share capital share premium shares reserves reserve perpetual debt earnings equity m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 792 775 125 1,335 8 14 3,049 Profit for the year 128 128 Dividends paid note 8 139 139 Issued by scrip 9 15 24 Share options 4 4 Fair value gains losses net of tax 53 53 Issue of subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes note 6 444 444 Interest on subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes net of tax note 6 10 10 Balance at 31 December 801 790 125 1,388 8 444 3 3,553 All items are stated net of tax.
The attached notes form an integral part of these separate financial statements.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 11 7 Parent Company Cashflow Statement for the year ended 31 December 2005 2005 2004 Note m m Cash generated from operations 9 112 176 Income tax refunded paid Net cashflows from operating activities 112 176 Net movement in amounts owed to by subsidiaries 235 1 Investments in subsidiaries 5 Net cashflows from investing activities 235 4 Proceeds from issue of share capital 2 Dividends paid 126 126 Repayment of long term borrowings 150 Net movement in other borrowings 449 Net cashflows from financing activities 124 173 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 1 7 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 1 8 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 1 The attached notes form an integral part of these separate financial statements.
Royal & SunAlliance 1 18 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the separate financial statements 1.
Significant accounting policies Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc, domiciled in the United Kingdom is the ultimate Parent Company the Company for the Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group.
The principal activity of the Company is to hold investments in its subsidiaries and the receipt and payment of dividends.
These separate financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Except where otherwise stated, all figures included in the separate financial statements are presented in millions of British pounds sterling m, rounded to the nearest million.
In accordance with Section 230 of Companies Act 1985, the Companys Income Statement and related notes have not been presented in these separate financial statements.
The accounting policies that are used in preparation of these separate financial statements are consistent with the accounting policies used in preparation of the consolidated financial statements of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group as set out in those financial statements.
The additional accounting policies that are specific to the separate financial statements of the Company are set out below.
Investment in subsidiaries The Company accounts for its investments in directly owned subsidiaries as available for sale financial assets, which are included in the accounts at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of the investments in subsidiaries are recognised directly in equity in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
Where there is a decline in the fair value of a directly owned subsidiary below cost, and there is objective evidence that the investment is impaired, the cumulative loss that has been recognised in equity is removed from equity and recognised in the Income Statement.
Dividend income Dividend income from investments in subsidiaries is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards The Companys separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 are the first separate financial statements that comply with IFRS.
The Company has applied IFRS 1 First Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, in preparing these separate financial statements.
The Companys transition date is 1 January 2004 and an opening IFRS Balance Sheet has been prepared at that date.
In preparing these separate financial statements in accordance with IFRS 1, the Company has applied the applicable mandatory exceptions and the following optional exemption from full retrospective application of IFRS.
Explanations of the adjustments are also set out below.
Profit for the year ended 31 December 2004 Note m Profit for the year ended 31 December 2004 as reported under UK GAAP 379 Adjusted for: Dividend income from subsidiaries a 260 Loan capital finance costs b 3 Subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes c 10 Other d 4 Profit for the year ended 31 December 2004 as reported under IFRS 128 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 11 9 2.
First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards continued Equity at 31 December 2004 and 1 January 2004 31 December 1 January 2004 2004 Notes m m Total equity and reserves as reported under UK GAAP 2,672 2,986 Adjusted for: Dividend income from subsidiaries a 390 130 Loan capital derivatives b 2 1 Subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes c 444 Dividends e 86 83 Investment in subsidiaries carried at fair value f 739 111 Total equity and reserves as reported under IFRS 3,553 3,049 Explanations a Dividend income from subsidiaries Under UK GAAP, dividend income from a subsidiary proposed up to the date of the approval of the subsidiarys financial statements was recognised in that accounting period.
Under IFRS, only dividends approved by subsidiaries during the year are recognised as income.
The adjustment reflects the impact of reversing dividends receivable, proposed but not approved at 31 December 2004.
The effect of this was a reduction of equity and reserves of 390m at 31 December 2004 and a reduction in profit for the year of 260m.
b Loan capital Under UK GAAP, the separate financial statements reflect an accrual or prepayment for the interest accrued on derivatives on dated loan capital.
Under IFRS, this accrual or prepayment is reversed and the fair value of the derivative contracts is reflected in the separate financial statements.
At 31 December 2004 the impact was an increase in equity and reserves for the year of 2m.
A further increase of 1m arose regarding the calculation of a loss of the cancellation of interest rate swaps during the year.
c Subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes Under UK GAAP, the subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes issued during 2004 are classified as a liability.
As described in note 6, IFRS requires the perpetual notes to be classified as equity and the interest payments to be recognised directly in equity.
The impact of this adjustment is to increase the profit for the year by 10m and to increase equity and reserves by 444m.
d Other Other includes other miscellaneous adjustments.
e Dividends proposed Under UK GAAP, all dividends relating to an accounting period that are proposed up to the date of the approval of the financial statements by the Board of Directors were accrued in that accounting period.
The adjustment reflects the impact of reversing the proposed dividend, which at 31 December 2004 was 86m.
f Investment in subsidiaries Under UK GAAP, investments in subsidiaries are carried at current value and unrealised gains and losses are recognised in the revaluation reserve.
Under IFRS, investments in subsidiaries are recognised in the Balance Sheet at fair value.
The adjustment reflects the reversal of the current asset value adjustment under UK GAAP and the impact of the recognition of the fair value of investment in subsidiaries.
Cashflow reconciliation for year ended 31 December 2004 The Companys Cashflow Statement is presented under IFRS in accordance with IAS 7 Cashflow Statements.
No Cashflow Statement was presented under UK GAAP.
Royal & SunAlliance 12 0 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the separate financial statements continued 3.
Investments 2005 2004 m m Investments at 1 January at valuation 3,981 3,549 Disposals additions during the year 85 394 Fair value adjustments 974 53 Impairments 15 Investments at 31 December at valuation 4,870 3,981 The balances at 31 December comprise: 2005 2004 m m Investment in subsidiaries 4,547 3,573 Loans to subsidiaries 323 323 Other equity investments 85 4,870 3,981 The investments in subsidiaries are recognised in the Balance Sheet at fair value measured in accordance with the Companys accounting policies.
Fair value of the Companys significant subsidiary is determined by reference to the market value derived from relevant indices of the Companys ordinary shares and loan capital instruments at the Balance Sheet date, being the most transparent independent available indicator.
The market value is adjusted for the fair value of the Companys preference shares, assets and liabilities, excluding directly owned subsidiaries.
The adjusting items have been fair valued by determining the present value of future cashflow projections, using an appropriate arms length discount rate.
The remaining subsidiaries are held at fair value which has been determined to be net asset value.
The directors believe that the methodology used supports the inclusion of the investments in subsidiaries on the Balance Sheet, at the fair values ascribed to them.
The market value of the Companys ordinary shares at 31 December 2005 was 125.75p.
A movement of 1% in the share price would have an impact of 37m on the fair value.
The principal subsidiaries of the Company are set below.
Country of incorporation Principal activity United Kingdom note 1 Royal Insurance Holdings plc note 2 Holding company Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc General insurance British Aviation Insurance Company Limited 57.1% General insurance The Globe Insurance Company Limited General insurance The Marine Insurance Company Limited General insurance Royal International Insurance Holdings Limited General insurance Royal & Sun Alliance Reinsurance Limited General insurance Sun Alliance and London Insurance plc General insurance Sun Insurance Office Limited General insurance Argentina Royal & Sun Alliance Seguros Argentina SA General insurance La Republica Compania Argentina fide Seguros Generales SA General insurance Bahrain Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Middle East Limited E. C. 50.01% General insurance Brazil Royal & Sun Alliance Seguros Brasil SA General insurance Canada Roins Financial Services Limited Holding company Compagnie dAssurance du Quebec General insurance The Johnson Corporation General insurance Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Company of Canada General insurance Western Assurance Company General insurance Chile Royal & Sun Alliance Seguros Chile SA 97.5% General insurance Compania fide Seguros Generales Cruz del Sur SA General insurance Colombia Royal & Sun Alliance Seguros Colombia SA 86.5% General insurance Denmark Codan A S 71.7% Holding company Codan Forsikring A S 71.7% General insurance Guernsey Insurance Corporation of the Channel Islands Limited General insurance Hong Kong Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Hong Kong Limited General insurance Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 12 1 3.
Investments continued Country of incorporation Principal activity Isle of Man Tower Insurance Company Limited General insurance Mexico Royal & SunAlliance Seguros Mexico SA General insurance Netherlands Antilles Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Antilles NV 51.0% General insurance Saudi Arabia Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Middle East Limited E. C. 50.01% General insurance Singapore Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Singapore Limited General insurance Sweden Trygg-Hansa Frskrings AB, Publikt 71.7% General insurance United States of America Royal & Sun Alliance USA, Inc Holding company Guaranty National Insurance Company General insurance Royal Indemnity Company General insurance Royal Surplus Lines Insurance Company General insurance Security Insurance Company of Hartford General insurance Uruguay Royal & Sun Alliance Seguros Uruguay SA General insurance Venezuela Royal & Sun Alliance Seguros Venezuela SA 99.9% General insurance Notes: 1.
100% direct subsidiary of the Company.
Some subsidiaries have been omitted from this statement to avoid providing particulars of excessive length.
Other debtors and other assets to be settled within 12 months 2005 2004 m m Accrued interest and rent 1 Other prepayments and accrued income 3 66 Other debtors 4 6 Total other debtors and other assets 7 73 5.
Share capital Ordinary and preference shares During the year 2,137,513 2004: 449,832 ordinary shares were issued on the exercise of employee share options for a cash consideration of 2m 2004: 0.3m.
The Parent Company also issued 20,661,210 2004: 31,669,408 ordinary shares during the year under the scrip scheme approved by the shareholders at the 2005 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Royal & SunAlliance 12 2 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the separate financial statements continued 6.
Loan capital 2005 2004 m m Subordinated guaranteed US$ bonds 285 255 Subordinated guaranteed Euro bonds 341 352 Total dated loan capital 626 607 Subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes 445 Total loan capital 1,071 607 Subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes 444 The subordinated guaranteed US$ bonds have a redemption date of 15 October 2029.
The Company has the option to repay the Euro bonds on specific dates from 15 October 2009.
IFRS require perpetual debt to be classified as equity where the issuer has no contractual obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset to another party.
Accordingly, the interest payments for the year ended 31 December 2004 of 14m net 10m were recognised directly in equity.
The bonds and the notes are contractually subordinated to all other creditors of the Company such that in the event of a winding up or of bankruptcy, they are to be repaid only after the claims of all other creditors have been met.
The fair value of the loan capital and subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes at 31 December was 1,271m 2004: 1,206m.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 12 3 7.
Current and deferred tax Current income tax 2005 2004 m m To be settled within 12 months 27 63 To be settled after 12 months 27 63 Deferred tax 2005 2004 m m Deferred tax assets 2 Deferred tax liabilities 14 Net deferred tax position at 31 December 2 14 The movement for the year in the Companys net deferred tax position was as follows: 2005 2004 m m Net deferred tax position at 1 January 14 1 Charge to the Income Statement for the year 13 Net liability transferred to a subsidiary company 16 Net deferred tax position at 31 December 2 14 The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Company and their movements during the year: Deferred tax liabilities Other temporary differences m Deferred tax liabilities at 1 January 2004 1 Charge to the Income Statement for the year 13 Deferred tax liabilities at 31 December 2004 14 Transferred to a subsidiary company 14 Deferred tax liabilities at 31 December 2005 Deferred tax assets Accelerated capital allowances m Deferred tax assets at 1 January 2004 Charge to the Income Statement for the year Exchange adjustment Deferred tax assets at 31 December 2004 Charge to the Income Statement for the year Transfers 2 Deferred tax assets at 31 December 2005 2 At the Balance Sheet date, the Company had unused tax losses of 4m 2004: 4m available for offset against future profits.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the tax losses of 4m 2004: 4m due to the unpredictability of future profit streams.
The losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
The aggregate current tax relating to items that were charged or credited to equity is 2m 2004: 6m.
Royal & SunAlliance 12 4 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the separate financial statements continued 8.
Dividends 2005 2004 2005 2004 p p m m Ordinary dividend: Final paid in respect of prior year 2.96 2.90 86 83 Interim paid in respect of current year 1.69 1.65 49 47 135 130 Preference dividend 9 9 144 139 At the AGM on 22 May 2006, a dividend in respect of 2005 of 3.05p per share amounting to a total dividend of 89m is to be proposed.
Cash generated from operations 2005 2004 m m Net profit for the year before tax 450 78 Realised losses 2 Loss on disposal of subsidiaries 3 Foreign exchange loss gain 7 21 Dividends received 590 230 Changes in operating assets liabilities 19 6 Cash generated from operations 112 176 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 12 5 10.
Related party transactions Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc incorporated in England is the ultimate Parent Company of the Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group.
The following transactions were carried out with related parties: Provision of services and benefits Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc provides services and benefits to its subsidiary companies operating within the UK and Overseas as follows: Provision of technical support in relation to risk management, information technology and reinsurance services.
Services are charged for annually on a cost plus basis, allowing for a margin of 5% 2004: 4.1%.
Issue of share options and share awards to employees of subsidiaries.
Costs are charged for annually based on the underlying value of the awards granted calculated in accordance with the guidance set out within IFRS 2 Share Based Payment.
Key management compensation 2005 2004 m m Salaries and other short term employee benefits 5 4 Bonus awards 3 3 Pension benefits 1 1 Share based awards 1 1 Total 10 9 A number of the directors, other key managers, their close families and entities under their control have general insurance policies with subsidiary companies of the Group.
Year end balances with related parties are set out below 2005 2004 m m Receivable from related parties: Receivable from subsidiaries, interest bearing loans 955 525 Receivable from subsidiaries, non interest bearing 194 388 Total receivable from related parties 1,149 913 Payable to related parties: Payable to subsidiaries, interest bearing loans 369 673 Payable to subsidiaries, non interest bearing 105 135 Total payable to related parties 474 808 Interest is charged on interest bearing loans, which are repayable on 24 hours written notice, at three month LIBOR 1.2%.
Additional loans to subsidiaries of 323m 2004: 323m as disclosed within note 3 have been made.
Of this, 294m 2004: 294m is a subordinated loan on which interest is charged at 8.5% with the remaining loan balance interest free with no specified repayment date.
Share based payments Full details of share based payment plans are provided in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements.
