Shareholder information continued Taxation for US Holders The following discussion summarises certain US federal and If a corporate US Holder is subject to UK corporation tax by UK tax consequences of the acquisition, ownership and reason of carrying on a trade in the UK through a permanent disposition of non-cumulative dollar preference shares, ADSs, establishment and its non-cumulative dollar preference share X-CAPs or PROs by a beneficial owner that is a citizen or or ADS is, or has been, used, held or acquired for the resident of the United States or that otherwise will be subject purposes of that permanent establishment, certain provisions to US federal income tax on a net income basis in respect of introduced by the Finance No.
2 Act 2005 will apply if the US the non-cumulative dollar preference shares, ADSs, X-CAPs or Holder holds its non-cumulative dollar preference share or ADS PROs a US Holder.
This summary assumes that a US for a tax avoidance purpose.
If these provisions apply, Holder is holding non-cumulative dollar preference shares, dividends on the non-cumulative dollar preference share or 264 ADSs, X-CAPs or PROs, as applicable, as capital assets.
This ADS, as well as certain fair value credits and debits arising in summary does not address the tax consequences to a US respect of such share or ADS, will be brought within the Holder i that is resident or, in the case of an individual, charge to UK corporation tax on income and the UK tax ordinarily resident in the UK for UK tax purposes or ii generally, position outlined in the preceding paragraphs will not apply in that is a corporation which alone or together with one or more relation to such US Holder.
associated companies, controls, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of the company.
Taxation of capital gains A US Holder that is not resident or, in the case of an The statements and practices set forth below regarding US individual, ordinarily resident in the UK will not normally be and UK tax laws, including the US UK double taxation liable for UK tax on capital gains realised on the disposition of convention relating to income and capital gains which entered such holders non-cumulative dollar preference share or ADS into force on 31 March 2003 the Treaty, and the US UK unless at the time of the disposal, in the case of a corporate double taxation convention relating to estate and gift taxes the US Holder, such US Holder carries on a trade in the UK Estate Tax Treaty, are based on those laws and practices as through a permanent establishment or, in the case of any other in force and as applied in practice on the date of this Report.
US Holder, such US Holder carries on a trade, profession or This summary is not exhaustive of all possible tax vocation in the UK through a UK branch or agency and such considerations and holders are advised to satisfy themselves non-cumulative dollar preference share or ADS is or has been as to the overall tax consequences, including specifically the used, held or acquired by or for the purposes of such trade or consequences under US federal, state, local and other laws, profession or vocation, permanent establishment, branch or and possible changes in taxation law, of the acquisition, agency.
Special rules apply to individuals who are temporarily ownership and disposition of non-cumulative dollar preference not resident or ordinarily resident in the UK.
shares, ADSs, X-CAPs or PROs by consulting their own tax advisers.
A US Holder will, upon the sale, exchange or redemption of a non-cumulative dollar preference share or ADS, generally For the purposes of the Treaty, the Estate Tax Treaty and the recognise capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended the Code, assuming that in the case of a redemption, such US Holder US Holders of ADSs will be treated as owners of the nondoes not own, and is not deemed to own, any ordinary shares of cumulative dollar preference shares underlying such ADSs.
the company in an amount equal to the difference between the amount realised excluding in the case of a redemption any Preference shares or ADSs amount treated as a dividend for US federal income tax Taxation of dividends purposes, which will be taxed accordingly and the US Holders The company is not required to withhold tax at source from tax basis in the non-cumulative dollar preference share or ADS.
dividend payments it makes or from any amount including any amounts in respect of accrued dividends distributed by the A US Holder who is liable for both UK and US tax on gain company.
recognised on the disposal of a non-cumulative dollar preference share or ADS will generally be entitled, subject to Dividends paid by the company will constitute foreign source certain limitations, to credit the UK tax against its US federal dividend income for US federal income tax purposes to the income tax liability in respect of such gain.
extent paid out of the current or accumulated earnings and profits of the company, as determined for US federal income Estate and gift tax tax purposes.
Payments will not be eligible for the dividendsA non-cumulative dollar preference share or ADS beneficially received deduction allowed to corporate US Holders.
owned by an individual, whose domicile is determined to be the United States for purposes of the Estate Tax Treaty and Subject to applicable limitations that may vary depending upon who is not a national of the UK, will not be subject to UK a holders individual circumstances, dividends paid to certain inheritance tax on the individuals death or on a lifetime transfer non-corporate US Holders in taxable years beginning before of the non-cumulative dollar preference share or ADS, except 1 January 2009 will be taxable at a maximum tax rate of 15%.
in certain cases where the non-cumulative dollar preference Non-corporate US Holders should consult their own tax share or ADS i is comprised in a settlement unless, at the advisers to determine whether they are subject to any special time of the settlement, the settlor was domiciled in the United rules that limit their ability to be taxed at this favourable rate.
States and was not a national of the UK : ii is part of the Shareholder information business property of a UK permanent establishment of an A US Holder who is liable for both UK and US tax on gain enterprise: or iii pertains to a UK fixed base of an individual recognised on the disposal of the X-CAPs will generally be used for the performance of independent personal services.
entitled, subject to certain limitations, to credit the UK tax The Estate Tax Treaty generally provides a credit against US against its US federal income tax liability in respect of such gain.
federal estate or gift tax liability for the amount of any tax paid in the UK in a case where the non-cumulative dollar preference Gain or loss will not be recognised by a US Holder upon the share or ADS is subject to both UK inheritance tax and US exchange of X-CAPs for preference shares or ADSs pursuant federal estate or gift tax.
to the companys exercise of its exchange right.
A US Holders basis in the preference shares or ADSs received in exchange UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax SDRT for its X-CAPs will be the same as the US Holders basis in the 265 The following is a summary of the UK stamp duty and SDRT X-CAPs at the time of the exchange and the US Holders holding consequences of transferring an ADS in registered form period for the preference shares or ADSs received in the exchange otherwise than to the custodian on cancellation of the ADS or will include the holding period of the X-CAPs exchanged.
of transferring a non-cumulative dollar preference share.
A transfer of a registered ADS executed and retained in the United Kingdom United States will not give rise to stamp duty and an agreement Taxation of payments of interest to transfer a registered ADS will not give rise to SDRT.
Payments on the X-CAPs will constitute interest rather than Stamp duty or SDRT will normally be payable on or in respect dividends for UK withholding tax purposes.
However, the of transfers of non-cumulative dollar preference shares and X-CAPs will constitute quoted eurobonds within the meaning accordingly any holder who acquires or intends to acquire of section 349 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act non-cumulative dollar preference shares is advised to consult 1988, and therefore payments of interest will not be subject its own tax advisers in relation to stamp duty and SDRT.
to withholding or deduction for or on account of UK taxation as long as the X-CAPs remain at all times listed on the New X-CAPs York Stock Exchange or some other recognised stock United States exchange within the meaning of section 841 of the Income Because the X-CAPs have no stated maturity, can be and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
In all other cases an amount exchanged for preference shares or ADSs at the option of the must be withheld on account of UK income tax at the lower company, would be treated as if they were preference shares in rate currently 20% subject to any direction to the contrary a winding-up of the company, and the company may elect not by HM Revenue & Customs under the Treaty and except that to make payments on the X-CAPs, the X-CAPs will be treated the withholding obligation is disapplied in respect of payments as equity for US federal income tax purposes.
to persons who the company reasonably believes are within the charge to corporation tax or fall within various categories Payments including any UK withholding tax, as to which see enjoying a special tax status including charities and pension below will constitute foreign source dividend income for US funds, or are partnerships consisting of such persons unless federal income tax purposes to the extent paid out of the HM Revenue & Customs directs otherwise.
current or accumulated earnings and profits of the company, as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
Payments If interest were paid under deduction of UK income tax e. g. will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction allowed if the X-CAPs lost their listing, US Holders may be able to to corporate US Holders.
A US Holder who is entitled under the claim a refund of the tax deducted under the Treaty.
Treaty to a refund of UK tax, if any, withheld on a payment will not be entitled to claim a foreign tax credit with respect to such tax.
Any paying agent or other person through whom interest is paid to, or by whom interest is received on behalf of, an Subject to applicable limitations that may vary depending upon individual, may be required to provide information in relation a holders individual circumstances, dividends paid to certain to the payment and the individual concerned to HM Revenue & non-corporate US Holders in taxable years beginning before Customs.
HM Revenue & Customs may communicate this 1 January 2009 will be taxable at a maximum tax rate of 15%.
information to the tax authorities of other jurisdictions.
section Non-corporate US Holders should consult their own tax advisers to determine whether they are subject to any special HM Revenue & Customs confirmed at around the time of issue 05 rules that limit their ability to be taxed at this favourable rate.
of the X-CAPs that interest payments should not be treated as distributions for UK tax purposes by reason of i the fact that A US Holder will, upon the sale, exchange or redemption of interest may be deferred under the terms of issue or ii the X-CAPs, generally recognise capital gain or loss for US federal undated nature of the X-CAPs, provided that at the time an income tax purposes assuming that in the case of a interest payment is made, the X-CAPs are not held by a redemption, such US Holder does not own, and is not deemed company which is associated with the company or by a to own, any ordinary shares of the company in an amount funded company.
A company will be associated with the equal to the difference between the amount realised excluding company if, broadly speaking, it is in the same group as the in the case of a redemption any amount treated as a dividend company.
A company will be a funded company for these for US federal income tax purposes, which will be taxed purposes if there are arrangements involving that company accordingly and the US Holders tax basis in the X-CAPs.
being put in funds directly or indirectly by the company, or an entity associated with the company.
In this respect, Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Shareholder information Shareholder information Shareholder information continued Taxation for US Holders continued Inheritance tax HM Revenue & Customs has confirmed that a company X-CAPs in bearer form physically held outside the UK should holding an interest in X-CAPs which incidentally has banking not be subject to UK inheritance tax in respect of a lifetime facilities with any company associated with the company will transfer by, or the death of, a US Holder who is neither not be a funded company by virtue of such facilities.
domiciled nor deemed to be domiciled in the UK for inheritance tax purposes.
However, in relation to X-CAPs held Interest on the X-CAPs constitutes UK source income for UK through DTC or any other clearing system, the position is not tax purposes and, as such, may be subject to income tax by free from doubt and the HM Revenue and Customs is known to direct assessment even where paid without withholding.
consider that the situs of securities held in this manner is not However, interest with a UK source received without deduction necessarily determined by the place in which the securities are 266 or withholding on account of UK tax will not be chargeable to physically held.
If X-CAPs in bearer form are or become UK tax in the hands of a US Holder unless, in the case of a situated in the UK, or if X-CAPs are held in registered form, corporate US Holder, such US Holder carries on a trade in the there may be a charge to UK inheritance tax as a result of a UK through a UK permanent establishment or in the case of lifetime transfer at less than fair market value by, or on the other US Holders, such persons carry on a trade, profession death of, such US Holder.
However, exemption from, or a or vocation in the UK through a UK branch or agency in reduction of, any such UK tax liability may be available under connection with which the interest is received or to which the the Estate Tax Treaty in the same manner as for non-cumulative X-CAPs are attributable.
There are exemptions for interest dollar preference shares.
US Holders should consult their received by certain categories of agents such as some professional advisers in relation to such potential liability.
Stamp duty and SDRT EU Directive on taxation of savings income No UK stamp duty is payable on the transfer by delivery or The European Union has adopted a directive regarding the redemption of bearer X-CAPs, whether in definitive form or in taxation of savings income.
The Directive requires Member the form of one or more global X-CAPs.
No SDRT is payable States of the European Union to provide to the tax authorities on any agreement to transfer bearer X-CAPs, provided that the of other Member States details of payments of interest or other agreement is not made in contemplation of, or as part of an similar income paid by a person to an individual in another arrangement for, a takeover of the company.
Member State, except that Belgium, Luxembourg and Austria are instead imposing a withholding system for a transitional No UK stamp duty will be payable in respect of any instrument period unless during such period they elect otherwise.
of transfer of depositary interests representing X-CAPs, provided that any instrument relating to such transfer is not Disposal including redemption executed in the UK, and remains at all times outside the UK.
A disposal including redemption of X-CAPs by a nonDepositary interests representing X-CAPs will not be corporate US Holder will not give rise to any liability to UK chargeable securities for SDRT purposes, and consequently taxation on capital gains unless the US Holder carries on a a transfer of such depositary interests will not be subject to trade which for this purpose includes a profession or vocation SDRT.
Although the position is not clear, the transfer on the sale in the UK through a branch or agency and the X-CAPs are, of X-CAPs in registered form may attract ad valorem UK stamp or have been, held or acquired for the purposes of that trade, duty or if an unconditional agreement to transfer X-CAPs is branch or agency.
The exchange by such US Holder of not completed by a duly stamped transfer UK SDRT, generally X-CAPs for preference shares or ADSs pursuant to the at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration paid, which, in the companys exercise of its exchange right will not give rise to case of stamp duty, will be rounded up to 5 or multiples a charge to UK tax on capital gains even if such US Holder thereof.
The transfer of X-CAPs in registered form to, or to a would be subject to tax on a disposal of such holders X-CAPs nominee or agent for, a person whose business i is or in accordance with the tax treatment referred to previously.
includes issuing depositary receipts or ii is or includes the provision of clearance services, may give rise to a liability to A transfer of X-CAPs by a US Holder will not give rise to a UK stamp duty or to the extent that UK stamp duty is not paid charge to UK tax on accrued but unpaid interest payments, on an instrument of transfer UK SDRT, generally at the rate of unless the US Holder is an individual or other non-corporate 1.5% of the price of the X-CAPs transferred, which, in the case taxpayer and at any time in the relevant year of assessment of stamp duty, will be rounded up to 5 or multiples thereof.
or accounting period carries on a trade in the UK through a Such transfer of X-CAPs in bearer form may give rise to a branch or agency to which the X-CAPs are attributable.
charge to UK SDRT generally at the rate of 1.5% of the price of the X-CAPs transferred.
A charge to UK SDRT may also Annual tax charges arise on the issue of X-CAPs whether in registered or bearer Corporate US Holders of X-CAPs may be subject to annual UK form to, or to a nominee or agent for, a person whose business tax charges or relief by reference to fluctuations in exchange is or includes issuing depositary receipts or includes the rates and in respect of profits, gains and losses arising from provision of clearance services, generally at the rate of 1.5% the X-CAPs, but only if such corporate US Holders carry on a of the price of the X-CAPs issued.
trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a UK permanent establishment to which the X-CAPs are attributable.
Shareholder information PROs Any paying agent or other person by or through whom interest United States is paid to, or by whom interest is received on behalf of, an Payments of interest on a PRO including any UK withholding individual, may be required to provide information in relation to tax, as to which see below will constitute foreign source the payment and the individual concerned to HM Revenue & dividend income for US federal income tax purposes to the Customs.
HM Revenue & Customs may communicate this extent paid out of the current or accumulated earnings and information to the tax authorities of other jurisdictions.
profits of the company, as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
Payments will not be eligible for the dividendsHM Revenue & Customs confirmed at around the time of the received deduction allowed to corporate US Holders.
A US issue of the PROs that interest payments would not be treated Holder who is entitled under the Treaty to a refund of UK tax, as distributions for UK tax purposes by reason of i the fact 267 if any, withheld on a payment will not be entitled to claim a that interest may be deferred under the terms of issue or foreign tax credit with respect to such tax.
ii the undated nature of the PROs, provided that at the time an interest payment is made, the PROs are not held by a Subject to applicable limitations that may vary depending upon company which is associated with the company or by a a holders individual circumstances, dividends paid to certain funded company.
A company will be associated with the non-corporate US Holders in taxable years beginning before 1 company if, broadly speaking, it is part of the same group as January 2009 will be taxable at a maximum tax rate of 15%.
A company will be a funded company for these Non-corporate US Holders should consult their own tax purposes if there are arrangements involving that company advisers to determine whether they are subject to any special being put in funds directly or indirectly by the company, or an rules that limit their ability to be taxed at this favourable rate.
entity associated with the company.
In this respect, HM Revenue & Customs has confirmed that a company holding an A US Holder will, upon the sale, exchange or redemption of a interest in the PROs which incidentally has banking facilities PRO, generally recognise capital gain or loss for US federal with any company associated with the company will not be a income tax purposes assuming that in the case of a funded company by virtue of such facilities.
redemption, such US Holder does not own, and is not deemed to own, any ordinary shares of the company in an amount Interest on the PROs constitutes UK source income for UK tax equal to the difference between the amount realised excluding purposes and, as such, may be subject to income tax by any amount in respect of mandatory interest and any Missed direct assessment even where paid without withholding.
Payments which are to be satisfied on a Missed Payment However, interest with a UK source received without deduction Satisfaction Date, which would be treated as ordinary income or withholding on account of UK tax will not be chargeable to and the US Holders tax basis in the PRO.
UK tax in the hands of a US Holder unless, in the case of a corporate US Holder, such US Holder carries on a trade in the A US Holder who is liable for both UK and US tax on gain UK through a UK permanent establishment or in the case of recognised on the disposal of PROs will generally be entitled, other US Holders, such persons carry on a trade, profession or subject to certain limitations, to credit the UK tax against its US vocation in the UK through a UK branch or agency in federal income tax liability in respect of such gain.
connection with which the interest is received or to which the PROs are attributable.
There are exemptions for interest United Kingdom received by certain categories of agents such as some Taxation of payments on the PROs brokers and investment managers.
Payments on the PROs will constitute interest rather than dividends for UK withholding tax purposes.
However, the PROs EU Directive on taxation of savings income will constitute quoted eurobonds within the meaning of section The European Union has adopted a directive regarding the 349 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 and therefore taxation of savings income.
The Directive requires Member payments of interest will not be subject to withholding or States of the European Union to provide to the tax authorities deduction for or on account of UK taxation as long as the PROs of other Member States details of payments of interest and remain at all times listed on a recognised stock exchange within other similar income paid by a person to an individual resident section the meaning of section 841 of the Income and Corporation Taxes in another Member State, except that Belgium, Luxembourg Act 1988.
In all other cases, an amount must be withheld on and Austria are instead imposing a withholding system for a 05 account of UK income tax at the lower rate currently 20% transitional period unless during such period they elect subject to any direction to the contrary by HM Revenue & otherwise.
Customs under the Treaty and except that the withholding obligation is disapplied in respect of payments to persons who Disposal including redemption the company reasonably believes are within the charge to A disposal including redemption of PROs by a non-corporate corporation tax or fall within various categories enjoying a special US Holder will not give rise to any liability to UK taxation on capital tax status including charities and pension funds, or are gains unless the US Holder carries on a trade which for this partnerships consisting of such persons unless HM Revenue & purpose includes a profession or a vocation in the UK through Customs directs otherwise.
Where interest has been paid under a branch or agency and the PROs are, or have been, held or deduction of UK withholding tax, US Holders may be able to acquired for the purposes of that trade, branch or agency.
recover the tax deducted under the Treaty.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Shareholder information Shareholder information
