Financial results Summary financial statement Important note this standard for statutory reporting from 1 January 2004.
The This summary financial statement is a summary of information Group has therefore taken advantage of the option in IFRS 1 in the 2005 Report and Accounts the R&A.
It does not First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting contain sufficient information to allow for a full understanding of Standards to implement IAS 39, together with IAS 32 Financial the results of the Group and of the state of affairs of the Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IFRS 4 company or of the Group.
For further information, the 2005 Insurance Contracts from 1 January 2005 without restating its R&A, the auditors report on those accounts and the report of 2004 profit and loss account and balance sheet.
58 the directors should be consulted.
A copy of the R&A may be obtained, free of charge, from the companys registrar at the However, given the importance of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4, address shown on the inside back cover.
All shareholders the Group has also provided detailed comparative information receive the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement.
on a pro forma basis that includes the estimated effect of Shareholders who also wish to receive the R&A should these standards for the year ended 31 December 2004 to complete if they have not done so previously the request facilitate comparison.
card which accompanies this document and return it to the companys registrar.
The pro forma income statement for the year ended 31 December 2004 has been prepared as though the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS requirements of IAS 32, IAS 39 as amended by the revised The annual accounts have, for the first time, been prepared in fair value option and IFRS 4 had been applied from 1 January accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 2004 except for the requirements relating to hedge accounting: issued by the International Accounting Standards Board no hedge ineffectiveness has been recognised in profit or loss.
IASB and interpretations issued by the International Impairment provisions reflect the information and estimates on Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee of the IASB and which previous GAAP provisions were established.
endorsed by the European Union.
Classification at 1 January 2004 of financial assets into held-tomaturity, held-for-trading, available-for-sale, loans and In preparing its results, the Group has applied IFRS extant at receivables or designated as at fair value through profit or loss 31 December 2005. and of financial liabilities into held-for-trading, designated as at fair value through profit or loss and amortised cost is As a result of continued amendments to IAS 39 Financial consistent with the approach adopted on 1 January 2005 for Instruments: Recognition and Measurement during 2004 and the statutory information.
into 2005 the Group was not in a position fully to implement Financial results
