Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards Share based payments IFRS 2 Share-based Payment has been The annual accounts have, for the first time, been prepared in applied to equity instruments granted after 7 November 2002. accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board Implementation of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 Insurance IASB, and interpretations issued by the International Financial Contracts incorporating the adoption of FRS 27 Life Reporting Interpretations Committee of the IASB together IFRS Assurance as allowed by IFRS 1, the Group and the as endorsed by the European Union EU.
The EU has not company implemented IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 with effect endorsed the complete text of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: from 1 January 2005 without restating the income statement, Recognition and Measurement: it has relaxed some of the balance sheet and notes for 2004.
The Group has adopted the standards hedging requirements.
The Group has not taken Amendment to IAS 39 The Fair Value Option issued by the 136 advantage of this relaxation and has adopted IAS 39 as issued IASB in June 2005 also from 1 January 2005.
The date of transition to IFRS for the Group and implementing IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 on the Group and the company The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc and the company balance sheets and shareholders funds as at 1 date of their opening IFRS balance sheets was 1 January 2004.
January 2005 is set out on pages 219 to 220.
In preparing the The company accounts have been presented in accordance 2004 comparatives, UK GAAP principles then current have with the Companies Act 1985. been applied to financial instruments.
The main differences between UK GAAP and IFRS on financial instruments are The main differences between IFRS and previously applied summarised on pages 212 to 214. generally accepted accounting principles UK GAAP and the effect of implementing IFRS on the Group and company IFRS 1 prohibits retrospective application of some aspects of IFRS: balance sheets and shareholders funds as at 1 January and 31 December 2004 and on the Groups 2004 consolidated Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities nonincome statement are set out on pages 210 to 218. derivative financial assets and liabilities derecognised before 1 January 1992 the date from which the On initial adoption of IFRS, the Group and the company derecognition requirements of IAS 39 have been where relevant applied the following exemptions from the implemented under the Groups previous GAAP have not requirements of IFRS and from their retrospective application been recognised in its opening IFRS balance sheet.
as permitted by IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards: Hedge accounting hedging relationships of a type that does not qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39 are not Business combinations the Group has applied IFRS 3 reflected in the Groups opening IFRS balance sheet.
Business Combinations to business combinations that occurred on or after 1 January 2004. Business combinations Discontinued operations and assets classified as held for sale before that date have not been restated.
Under UK GAAP, the Group has applied IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held goodwill arising on acquisitions after 1 October 1998 was for Sale and Discontinued Operations from 1 January 2005. capitalised and amortised over its estimated useful economic life.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 October 1998 The Group has adopted the Amendment Actuarial Gains and was deducted from equity.
The carrying amount of goodwill in Losses, Group Plans and Disclosures to IAS 19 Employee the Groups opening IFRS balance sheet was 13,131 million, Benefits from 1 January 2004.
Actuarial gains and losses are its carrying value under UK GAAP as at 31 December 2003. recognised in full as they occur outside profit or loss.
Fair value or revaluation as deemed cost under UK GAAP, the 2.
Accounting convention Groups freehold and long leasehold property occupied for its The company is incorporated in the UK and registered in own use was recorded at valuation on the basis of existing use Scotland.
The financial statements have been prepared on the value.
The Group has elected to use this valuation as at 31 historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities December 2003 as deemed cost for its opening IFRS balance are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments, sheet.
At this date, the carrying value under UK GAAP of held-for-trading financial assets and financial liabilities, financial freehold and long leasehold property occupied for own use assets and financial liabilities that are designated as at fair value was 2,391 million.
through profit or loss, available-for-sale financial assets and investment property.
Recognised financial assets and financial Compound financial instruments the Group has not liabilities in fair value hedges are adjusted for changes in fair value separated compound instruments between liability and equity in respect of the risk that is hedged.
components, as required by IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, where the liability component 3.
Basis of consolidation was not outstanding at 1 January 2004.
UK GAAP did not The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial permit compound instruments to be separated between liability statements of the company and entities including certain and equity components on issue.
special purpose entities controlled by the Group its subsidiaries.
Control exists where the Group has the power Derecognition the Group has applied the derecognition to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity: requirements of IAS 39 to transactions occurring on or after generally conferred by holding a majority of voting rights.
On acquisition of a subsidiary, its identifiable assets, liabilities and Accounting policies contingent liabilities are included in the consolidated accounts at services income is usually charged to the customers account, their fair value.
Any excess of the cost the fair value of assets monthly or quarterly in arrears.
Accruals are raised for services given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments provided but not charged at period end.
issued by the Group plus any directly attributable costs of an acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired is Card related services: fees from credit card business include: recognised as goodwill.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at their share of the fair value of the subsidiarys net assets.
Commission received from retailers for processing credit and debit card transactions: income is accrued to the The results of subsidiaries acquired are included in the income statement as the service is performed.
consolidated income statement from the date control passes 137 to the Group.
The results of subsidiaries sold are included up Interchange received: as issuer, the Group receives a fee until the Group ceases to control them.
interchange each time a cardholder purchases goods and services.
The Group also receives interchange fees from All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses other card issuers for providing cash advances through its are eliminated on consolidation.
The consolidated accounts are branch and Automated Teller Machine networks.
These fees prepared using uniform accounting policies.
are accrued once the transaction has taken place.
Revenue recognition An annual fee payable by a credit card holder is deferred Interest income on financial assets that are classified as loans and taken to profit or loss over the period of the service i. e. and receivables, available-for-sale or held-to-maturity and 12 months.
interest expense on financial liabilities other than those at fair value through profit or loss are determined using the effective Insurance brokerage: this is made up of fees and commissions interest rate method.
The effective interest rate method is a received from the agency sale of insurance.
Commission on the method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset sale of an insurance contract is earned at the inception of the or financial liability or group of financial assets or liabilities policy as the insurance has been arranged and placed.
However, and of allocating the interest income or interest expense over provision is made where commission is refundable in the event of the expected life of the asset or liability.
The effective interest policy cancellation in line with estimated cancellations.
rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash flows to the instruments initial carrying amount.
Calculation of Investment management fees: fees charged for managing the effective interest rate takes into account fees receivable, investments are recognised as revenue as the services are that are an integral part of the instruments yield, premiums or provided.
Incremental costs that are directly attributable to discounts on acquisition or issue, early redemption fees and securing an investment management contract are deferred and transaction costs.
All contractual terms of a financial charged as expense as the related revenue is recognised.
instrument are considered when estimating future cash flows.
Insurance premiums see note 11 below.
Financial assets and financial liabilities held-for-trading or designated as at fair value through profit or loss are recorded 5.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits at fair value.
Changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss The Group provides post-retirement benefits in the form of together with dividends and interest receivable and payable.
pensions and healthcare plans to eligible employees.
Commitment and utilisation fees are determined as a percentage For defined benefit schemes, scheme liabilities are measured on of the outstanding facility.
If it is unlikely that a specific lending an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method and arrangement will be entered into, such fees are taken to profit discounted at a rate that reflects the current rate of return on a or loss over the life of the facility otherwise they are deferred high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to and included in the effective interest rate on the advance.
Scheme assets are measured at their fair value.
Any surplus or deficit of scheme assets over liabilities is section Fees in respect of services are recognised as the right to recognised in the balance sheet as an asset surplus or liability consideration accrues through the provision of the service to deficit.
The current service cost and any past service costs 03 the customer.
The arrangements are generally contractual and together with the expected return on scheme assets less the the cost of providing the service is incurred as the service is unwinding of the discount on the scheme liabilities is charged to rendered.
The price is usually fixed and always determinable.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised The application of this policy to significant fee types is outlined in full in the period in which they occur outside profit or loss and below.
presented in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are Payment services: this comprises income received for payment recognised in the income statement when payable.
services including cheques cashed, direct debits, Clearing House Automated Payments the UK electronic settlement 6.
Intangible assets and goodwill system and BACS payments the automated clearing house Intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at that processes direct debits and direct credits.
These are cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
generally charged on a per transaction basis.
The income is Amortisation is charged to profit or loss using methods that earned when the payment or transaction occurs.
Payment best reflect the economic benefits over their estimated useful Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Accounting policies Financial statements Accounting policies continued economic lives and is included in Depreciation and amortisation.
market interest rates adjusted for risks specific to the asset or The estimated useful economic lives are as follows: cash generating unit that have not been reflected in the estimation of future cash flows.
If the recoverable amount of an intangible or Core deposit intangibles 7 years tangible asset is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is Other acquired intangibles 5-10 years recognised immediately in profit or loss and the carrying value of Computer software 3-5 years the asset reduced by the amount of the loss.
A reversal of an impairment loss on intangible assets excluding goodwill or Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is property, plant and equipment is recognised as it arises provided written-off as incurred.
Acquired goodwill being the excess of the increased carrying value does not exceed that which it would the cost of an acquisition over the Groups interest in the net have been had no impairment loss been recognised.
Impairment 138 fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent losses on goodwill are not reversed.
liabilities of the subsidiary, associate or joint venture acquired is initially recognised at cost and subsequently at cost less any 9.
Foreign currencies accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill arising on the The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in acquisition of subsidiaries and joint ventures is included in the sterling which is the functional currency of the company.
balance sheet caption Intangible fixed assets and that on associates within their carrying amounts.
The gain or loss on Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture includes the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
the carrying value of any related goodwill.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange 7.
Property, plant and equipment ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less arising on translation are recognised in profit or loss except for accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses.
differences arising on cash flow hedges and hedges of net Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises investments in foreign operations.
Non-monetary items major components having different useful lives, they are denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value accounted for separately.
Property that is being constructed or are translated into sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at developed for future use as investment property is classified as the dates the values were determined.
Translation differences property, plant and equipment and stated at cost until arising on non-monetary items measured at fair value are construction or development is complete, at which time it is recognised in profit or loss except for differences arising on reclassified as investment property.
available-for-sale non-monetary financial assets, for example equity shares, which are included in the available-for-sale Depreciation is charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis reserve in equity unless the asset is the hedged item in a fair so as to write-off the depreciable amount of property, plant value hedge.
and equipment including assets owned and let on operating leases except investment property see note 20 below over The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including their estimated useful lives.
The depreciable amount is the cost goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are of an asset less its residual value.
translated into sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the Estimated useful lives are as follows: balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at average exchange Freehold and long leasehold buildings 50 years rates unless these do not approximate to the foreign exchange Short leaseholds unexpired period rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange of the lease differences arising on the translation of foreign operations are Property adaptation costs 10 to 15 years recognised directly in equity.
Computer equipment up to 5 years Other equipment 4 to 15 years 10.
Leases Contracts to lease assets are classified as finance leases if 8.
Impairment of intangible assets and property, they transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of plant and equipment ownership of the asset to the customer.
Other contracts to At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any lease assets are classified as operating leases.
indication that its intangible assets, or property, plant and equipment are impaired.
If any such indication exists, the Group Finance lease receivables are stated in the balance sheet at estimates the recoverable amount of the asset and the impairment the amount of the net investment in the lease being the loss if any.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more minimum lease payments and any unguaranteed residual value frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it discounted at the interest rate implicit in the lease.
If an asset does not generate cash flows that lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to give a are independent from those of other assets or groups of assets, constant periodic rate of return before tax on the net investment.
recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to Unguaranteed residual values are subject to regular review to which the asset belongs.
The recoverable amount of an asset is identify potential impairment.
If there has been a reduction in the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
the estimated unguaranteed residual value, the income Value in use is the present value of future cash flows from the allocation is revised and any reduction in respect of amounts asset or cash-generating unit discounted at a rate that reflects accrued is recognised immediately.
Accounting policies Rental income from operating leases is credited to the income The Group has reinsurance treaties that transfer significant statement on a receivable basis over the term of the lease.
Liabilities for reinsured contracts are calculated Operating lease assets are included within Property, plant gross of reinsurance and a separate reinsurance asset recorded.
and equipment and depreciated over their useful lives see note 7 above.
Premiums on long-term insurance contracts are recognised as income when receivable.
Claims on long term insurance 11.
Insurance contracts reflect the cost of all claims arising during the year, General insurance including claims handling costs.
Claims are recognised when General insurance comprises short-duration contracts the Group becomes aware of the claim.
principally property and liability insurance contracts.
Due to 139 the nature of the products sold retail-based property and 12.
Taxation casualty, motor, home and personal health insurance contracts Provision is made for taxation at current enacted rates on the insurance protection is provided on an even basis taxable profits, arising in income or in equity, taking into throughout the term of the policy.
account relief for overseas taxation where appropriate.
Deferred taxation is accounted for in full for all temporary Premiums from general insurance contracts are recognised in differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability the accounting period in which they begin.
Unearned premiums for accounting purposes and its carrying amount for tax represent the proportion of the net premiums that relate to purposes, except in relation to overseas earnings where periods of insurance after the balance sheet date and are remittance is controlled by the Group, and goodwill.
calculated over the period of exposure under the policy, on a daily basis, 24ths basis or allowing for the estimated incidence Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is of exposure under policies which are longer than twelve probable that they will be recovered.
Provision is made where necessary for the estimated amount of claims over and above unearned premiums including 13.
Financial assets that in respect of future written business on discontinued lines Financial assets are classified into held-to-maturity investments: under the run-off of delegated underwriting authority available-for-sale financial assets: held-for-trading: designated arrangements.
It is designed to meet future claims and related as at fair value through profit or loss: or loans and receivables.
expenses and is calculated across related classes of business on the basis of a separate carry forward of deferred acquisition Held-to-maturity investments a financial asset is classified as expenses after making allowance for investment income.
a held-to-maturity investment only if it has fixed or determinable payments, a fixed maturity and the Group has the positive Acquisition expenses relating to new and renewed business intention and ability to hold to maturity.
Held-to-maturity for all classes are expensed over the period during which the investments are initially recognised at fair value plus directly premiums are earned.
The principal acquisition costs so related transaction costs.
They are subsequently measured at deferred are commissions payable, costs associated with the amortised cost using the effective interest method see note 4 telesales and underwriting staff and prepaid claims handling above less any impairment losses.
costs in respect of delegated claims handling arrangements for claims which are expected to occur after the balance sheet Held-for-trading a financial asset is classified as held-fordate.
Claims and the related reinsurance are recognised in the trading if it is acquired principally for the purpose of selling in accounting period in which the loss occurs.
Provision is made the near term, or forms part of a portfolio of financial for the full cost of settling outstanding claims at the balance instruments that are managed together and for which there is sheet date, including claims estimated to have been incurred but evidence of short-term profit taking, or it is a derivative not in not yet reported at that date, and claims handling expenses.
Held-for-trading financial related reinsurance receivable is recognised at the same time.
assets are recognised at fair value with transaction costs being recognised in profit or loss.
Subsequently they are measured Life assurance at fair value.
Gains and losses on held-for-trading financial The Groups long-term assurance contracts include whole-life assets are recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
section term assurance, endowment assurance, flexible whole-life, pension and annuity contracts that are expected to remain in Designated as at fair value through profit or loss financial 03 force for an extended period of time.
Long-term assurance assets that the Group designates on initial recognition as being contracts under which the Group does not accept significant at fair value through profit or loss are recognised at fair value, insurance risk are classified as financial instruments.
with transaction costs being recognised in profit or loss and The Group recognises the value of in-force long-term are subsequently measured at fair value.
Gains and losses on assurance contracts as an asset.
Cash flows associated with financial assets that are designated as at fair value through in-force contracts and related assets, including reinsurance profit or loss are recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
cash flows, are projected, using appropriate assumptions as to future mortality, persistency and levels of expenses and Financial assets may be designated as at fair value through profit or loss only if such designation a eliminates or excluding the value of future investment margins, to estimate future surpluses attributable to the Group.
These surpluses, significantly reduces a measurement or recognition discounted at a risk-adjusted rate, are recognised as a inconsistency: or b applies to a group of financial assets, separate asset.
Changes in the value of this asset, which is financial liabilities or both that the Group manages and determined on a post-tax basis, are included in operating profit.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Accounting policies Financial statements Accounting policies continued evaluates on a fair value basis: or c relates to an instrument Financial assets carried at amortised cost if there is objective that contains an embedded derivative which is not evidently evidence that an impairment loss on a financial asset or group of closely related to the host contract.
financial assets classified as loans and receivables or as heldto-maturity investments has been incurred, the Group measures The principal category of financial assets designated as at fair the amount of the loss as the difference between the carrying value through profit or loss is policyholders assets amount of the asset or group of assets and the present value of underpinning insurance and investment contracts issued by estimated future cash flows from the asset or group of assets the Group's life assurance businesses.
Fair value designation discounted at the effective interest rate of the instrument at initial significantly reduces the measurement inconsistency that recognition.
Impairment losses are assessed individually for would arise if these assets were classified as available-for-sale.
financial assets that are individually significant and individually 140 or collectively for assets that are not individually significant.
In Loans and receivables non-derivative financial assets with making collective assessment of impairment, financial assets fixed or determinable repayments that are not quoted in an are grouped into portfolios on the basis of similar risk active market are classified as loans and receivables except characteristics.
Future cash flows from these portfolios are those that are classified as available-for-sale or as held-forestimated on the basis of the contractual cash flows and trading, or designated as at fair value through profit or loss.
historical loss experience for assets with similar credit risk Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus characteristics.
Historical loss experience is adjusted, on the directly related transaction costs.
They are subsequently basis of current observable data, to reflect the effects of current measured at adjusted cost using the effective interest method conditions not affecting the period of historical experience.
see note 4 above less any impairment losses.
Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss and the Available-for-sale financial assets that are not classified as carrying amount of the financial asset or group of financial held-to-maturity: held-for-trading: designated at fair value assets reduced by establishing an allowance for impairment through profit or loss: or loans and receivables are classified as losses.
If in a subsequent period the amount of the impairment available-for-sale.
Financial assets can be designated as loss reduces and the reduction can be ascribed to an event available-for-sale on initial recognition.
Available-for-sale after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus directly loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance.
Once an related transaction costs.
They are subsequently measured at impairment loss has been recognised on a financial asset or fair value.
Impairment losses and exchange differences group of financial assets, interest income is recognised on the resulting from retranslating the amortised cost of currency carrying amount using the rate of interest at which estimated monetary available-for-sale financial assets are recognised in future cash flows were discounted in measuring impairment.
profit or loss together with interest calculated using the effective interest rate see note 4 above.
Other changes in the fair value Financial assets carried at fair value when a decline in the of available-for-sale financial assets are reported in a separate fair value of a financial asset classified as available-for-sale component of shareholders equity until disposal, when the has been recognised directly in equity and there is objective cumulative gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss is removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss.
The loss Regular way purchases of financial assets classified as loans is measured as the difference between the amortised cost of and receivables are recognised on settlement date: all other the financial asset and its current fair value.
Impairment losses regular way purchases are recognised on trade date.
on available-for-sale equity instruments are not reversed through profit or loss, but those on available-for-sale debt Fair value for a net open position in a financial asset that is instruments are reversed, if there is an increase in fair value quoted in an active market is the current bid price times the that is objectively related to a subsequent event.
number of units of the instrument held.
Fair values for financial assets not quoted in an active market are determined using 15.
Financial liabilities appropriate valuation techniques including discounting future A financial liability is classified as held-for-trading if it is cash flows, option pricing models and other methods that are incurred principally for the purpose of selling in the near term, consistent with accepted economic methodologies for pricing or forms part of a portfolio of financial instruments that are financial assets.
managed together and for which there is evidence of shortterm profit taking, or it is a derivative not in a qualifying hedge 14.
Impairment of financial assets relationship.
Held-for-trading financial liabilities are recognised The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there at fair value with transaction costs being recognised in profit or is any objective evidence that a financial asset or group of loss.
Subsequently they are measured at fair value.
Gains and financial assets classified as held-to-maturity, available-for-sale losses are recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
Financial or loans and receivables is impaired.
A financial asset or liabilities that the Group designates on initial recognition as portfolio of financial assets is impaired and an impairment loss being at fair value through profit or loss are recognised at fair incurred if there is objective evidence that an event or events value, with transaction costs being recognised in profit or loss since initial recognition of the asset have adversely affected and are subsequently measured at fair value.
Gains and losses the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset.
on financial liabilities that are designated as at fair value through profit or loss are recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
Accounting policies Financial liabilities may be designated as at fair value through evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after profit or loss only if such designation a eliminates or the deduction of liabilities.
The components of a compound significantly reduces a measurement or recognition financial instrument issued by the Group are classified and inconsistency: or b applies to a group of financial assets, accounted for separately as financial assets, financial liabilities financial liabilities or both that the Group manages and or equity as appropriate.
evaluates on a fair value basis: or c relates to an instrument that contains an embedded derivative which is not evidently 18.
Derivatives and hedging closely related to the host contract.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially, and subsequently measured, at fair value.
Derivative fair values are The principal categories of financial liabilities designated as at determined from quoted prices in active markets where 141 fair value through profit or loss are a structured liabilities available.
Where there is no active market for an instrument, issued by the Group: designation significantly reduces the fair value is derived from prices for the derivatives components measurement inconsistency between these liabilities and the using appropriate pricing or valuation models.
related derivatives carried at fair value, and b investment contracts issued by the Group's life assurance businesses: fair A derivative embedded in a contract is accounted for as standvalue designation significantly reduces the measurement alone derivative if its economic characteristics are not closely inconsistency that would arise if these liabilities were related to the economic characteristics of the host contract: unless measured at amortised cost.
the entire contract is carried at fair value through profit or loss.
All other financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value of a using the effective interest method see note 4 above.
derivative are recognised as they arise in profit or loss unless the derivative is the hedging instrument in a qualifying hedge.
Fair value for a net open position in a financial liability that is The Group enters into three types of hedge relationship: quoted in an active market is the current offer price times the hedges of changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or number of units of the instrument held or issued.
Fair values liability or firm commitment fair value hedges : hedges of the for financial liabilities not quoted in an active market are variability in cash flows from a recognised asset or liability or a determined using appropriate valuation techniques including forecast transaction cash flow hedges : and hedges of the net discounting future cash flows, option pricing models and other investment in a foreign entity.
methods that are consistent with accepted economic methodologies for pricing financial liabilities.
Hedge relationships are formally documented at inception.
The documentation includes identification of the hedged item and 16.
Derecognition the hedging instrument, details the risk that is being hedged and A financial asset is derecognised when it has been transferred the way in which effectiveness will be assessed at inception and and the transfer qualifies for derecognition.
A transfer requires during the period of the hedge.
If the hedge is not highly that the Group either: a transfers the contractual rights to effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows receive the assets cash flows: or b retains the right to the attributable to the hedged risk, consistent with the documented assets cash flows but assumes a contractual obligation to pay risk management strategy, hedge accounting is discontinued.
those cash flows to a third party.
After a transfer, the Group assesses the extent to which it has retained the risks and Fair value hedge in a fair value hedge, the gain or loss on the rewards of ownership of the transferred asset.
If substantially hedging instrument is recognised in profit or loss.
The gain or all the risks and rewards have been retained, the asset remains loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is on the balance sheet.
If substantially all of the risks and recognised in profit or loss and adjusts the carrying amount of rewards have been transferred, the asset is derecognised.
Hedge accounting is discontinued if the substantially all the risks and rewards have been neither hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or if retained nor transferred, the Group assesses whether or not it the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or has retained control of the asset.
If it has not retained control, exercised or if hedge designation is revoked.
If the hedged item section the asset is derecognised.
Where the Group has retained is one for which the effective interest rate method is used, any control of the asset, it continues to recognise the asset to the cumulative adjustment is amortised to profit or loss over the life 03 extent of its continuing involvement.
of the hedged item using a recalculated effective interest rate.
A financial liability is removed from the balance sheet when the Cash flow hedge where a derivative financial instrument is obligation is discharged, or cancelled, or expires.
designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast 17.
Capital instruments transaction, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the The Group classifies a financial instrument that it issues as a hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity.
The financial asset, financial liability or an equity instrument in ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss.
When the accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
forecast transaction results in the recognition of a financial asset An instrument is classified as a liability if it is a contractual or financial liability, the cumulative gain or loss is reclassified obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset, or to from equity in the same periods in which the asset or liability exchange financial assets or financial liabilities on potentially affects profit or loss.
Otherwise the cumulative gain or loss is unfavourable terms.
An instrument is classified as equity if it removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss at the same Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Accounting policies Financial statements Accounting policies continued time as the hedged transaction.
Hedge accounting is Critical accounting policies and key sources of estimation discontinued if the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge uncertainty accounting: if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, The reported results of the Group are sensitive to the terminated or exercised: if the forecast transaction is no longer accounting policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie expected to occur: or if hedge designation is revoked.
On the the preparation of its financial statements.
UK company law discontinuance of hedge accounting except where a forecast and IFRS require the directors, in preparing the Group's transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative financial statements, to select suitable accounting policies, unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in apply them consistently and make judgements and estimates profit or loss when the hedged cash flow occurs or, if the that are reasonable and prudent.
In the absence of an forecast transaction results in the recognition of a financial asset applicable standard or interpretation, IAS 8 Accounting 142 or financial liability, in the same periods during which the asset Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, or liability affects profit or loss.
Where a forecast transaction is requires management to develop and apply an accounting no longer expected to occur, the cumulative unrealised gain or policy that results in relevant and reliable information in the loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately.
light of the requirements and guidance in IFRS dealing with similar and related issues and the IASBs Framework for the Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation where a Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
foreign currency liability hedges a net investment in a foreign operation, the portion of foreign exchange differences arising The judgements and assumptions involved in the Groups on translation of the liability determined to be an effective accounting policies that are considered by the Board to be the hedge is recognised directly in equity.
Any ineffective portion is most important to the portrayal of its financial condition are recognised in profit or loss.
The use of estimates, assumptions or models that differ from those adopted by the Group would affect its 19.
The Group grants options over shares in The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc to its employees under various share option Loan impairment provisions schemes.
The Group has applied IFRS 2 Share-based Payment The Groups loan impairment provisions are established to to grants under these schemes after 7 November 2002 that had recognise incurred impairment losses in its portfolio of loans not vested on 1 January 2005.
The expense for these classified as loans and receivables and carried at amortised transactions is measured based on the fair value on the date the cost.
A loan is impaired when there is objective evidence that options are granted.
The fair value is estimated using valuation events since the loan was granted have affected expected techniques which take into account the options exercise price, its cash flows from the loan.
The impairment loss is the difference term, the risk free interest rate and the expected volatility of the between the carrying value of the loan and the present value market price of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plcs shares.
of estimated future cash flows at the loan's original effective Vesting conditions are not taken into account when measuring interest rate.
fair value, but are reflected by adjusting the number of options included in the measurement of the transaction such that the At 31 December 2005, gross loans and advances to amount recognised reflects the number that actually vest.
The fair customers totalled 421,110 million 2004 351,419 million value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
and customer loan impairment provisions amounted to 3,884 million 2004 4,168 million.
Investment property Investment property comprises freehold and leasehold There are two components to the Groups loan impairment properties that are held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation provisions: individual and collective.
It is not depreciated but is stated at fair value based on valuations by independent registered valuers.
Fair value is Individual component all impaired loans that exceed specific based on current prices in an active market for similar properties thresholds are individually assessed for impairment.
Individually in the same location and condition.
Any gain or loss arising from assessed loans principally comprise the Group's portfolio of a change in fair value is recognised in profit or loss.
Rental commercial loans to medium and large businesses.
Impairment income from investment property is recognised on a straight-line losses are recognised as the difference between the carrying basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives granted are value of the loan and the discounted value of managements recognised as an integral part of the total rental income.
best estimate of future cash repayments and proceeds from any security held.
These estimates take into account the 21.
Cash and cash equivalents customers debt capacity and financial flexibility: the level and Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash and demand quality of its earnings: the amount and sources of cash flows: deposits with banks together with short-term highly liquid the industry in which the counterparty operates: and the investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of realisable value of any security held.
Estimating the quantum cash and subject to insignificant risk of change in value.
and timing of future recoveries involves significant judgement.
The size of receipts will depend on the future performance of 22.
Shares in Group entities the borrower and the value of security, both of which will be The companys investments in its subsidiaries are stated at cost affected by future economic conditions: additionally, collateral less any impairment.
may not be readily marketable.
The actual amount of future cash flows and the date they are received may differ from these Accounting policies estimates and consequently actual losses incurred may differ statement.
Unrealised gains and losses on available-for-sale from those recognised in these financial statements.
financial assets are recognised directly in equity unless an impairment loss is recognised.
The carrying value of a financial Collective component this is made up of two elements: loan asset or a financial liability carried at cost or amortised cost that impairment provisions for impaired loans that are below individual is the hedged item in a qualifying hedge relationship is assessment thresholds collective impaired loan provisions adjusted by the gain or loss attributable to the hedged risk.
and for loan losses that have been incurred but have not been separately identified at the balance sheet date latent loss Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, provisions.
These are established on a portfolio basis taking or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in into account the level of arrears, security, past loss experience, an arm's length transaction.
Fair values are determined by 143 credit scores and defaults based on portfolio trends.
The most reference to observable market prices where available and significant factors in establishing these provisions are the reliable.
Where representative market prices for an instrument expected loss rates and the related average life.
These portfolios are not available or are unreliable because of poor liquidity, the include credit card receivables and other personal advances fair value is derived from prices for its components using including mortgages.
The future credit quality of these portfolios appropriate pricing or valuation models that are based on is subject to uncertainties that could cause actual credit losses to independently sourced market parameters, including interest differ materially from reported loan impairment provisions.
These rate yield curves, option volatilities and currency rates.
uncertainties include the economic environment, notably interest rates and their effect on customer spending, the unemployment Financial assets carried at fair value include government, asset level, payment behaviour and bankruptcy trends.
backed and corporate debt securities, reverse repos, loans, corporate equity shares and derivatives.
Financial liabilities Pensions carried at fair value include deposits, repos, short positions in The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension securities and debt securities issued.
Fair value for a substantial schemes as described in Note 3 on the financial statements.
proportion of these instruments is based on observable market The assets of the schemes are measured at their fair value at prices or derived from observable market parameters.
Where the balance sheet date.
Scheme liabilities are measured using observable prices are not available, fair value is based on the projected unit method, which takes account of projected appropriate valuation techniques or management estimates.
earnings increases, using actuarial assumptions that give the best estimate of the future cash flows that will arise under the The Groups derivative products include swaps, forwards, scheme liabilities.
These cash flows are discounted at the futures and options.
Exchange traded instruments are valued interest rate applicable to high-quality corporate bonds of the using quoted prices.
The fair value of over-the-counter same currency and term as the liabilities.
Any surplus or deficit instruments is derived from pricing models which take account of scheme assets over liabilities is recognised in the balance of contract terms, including maturity, as well as quoted market sheet as an asset surplus or liability deficit.
In determining the parameters such as interest rates and volatilities.
Most of the value of scheme liabilities, assumptions are made as to price Groups pricing models do not entail material subjectivity inflation, dividend growth, pension increases, earnings growth because the methodologies utilised do not incorporate and employees.
There is a range of assumptions that could be significant judgement and the parameters included in the adopted in valuing the schemes liabilities.
Different assumptions models can be calibrated to actively quoted market prices.
could significantly alter the amount of the deficit recognised in Values established from pricing models are adjusted for credit the balance sheet and the pension cost charged to the income risk, liquidity risk and future operational costs.
The assumptions adopted for the Groups pension schemes are set out in Note 3 on the financial statements.
The A negligible proportion of the Groups trading derivatives are pension deficit recognised in the balance sheet at 31 valued directly from quoted prices, the majority being valued December 2005 was 3,735 million 2004 2,940 million.
The fair value of substantially all securities positions carried at fair value is Fair value determined directly from quoted prices.
section Financial instruments classified as held-for-trading or designated as at fair value through profit or loss and financial Details of financial instruments carried at fair value are given in 03 assets classified as available-for-sale are recognised in the Note 34 on the financial statements.
financial statements at fair value.
All derivatives are measured at fair value.
In the balance sheet, financial assets carried at fair General insurance claims value are included within Treasury and other eligible bills, Loans The Group makes provision for the full cost of settling outstanding and advances to banks, Loans and advances to customers, claims arising from its general insurance business at the Debt securities and Equity shares as appropriate.
Financial balance sheet date, including claims estimated to have been liabilities carried at fair value are included within the captions incurred but not yet reported at that date and claims handling Deposits by banks, Customer accounts, Debt securities in issue expenses.
General insurance claims provisions amounted to and Subordinated liabilities.
Derivative assets and Derivative 4,913 million at 31 December 2005 2004 4,504 million.
liabilities are shown separately on the face of the balance sheets.
Gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of Provisions are determined by management based on financial instruments classified as held-for-trading or designated experience of claims settled and on statistical models which as at fair value through profit or loss are included in the income require certain assumptions to be made regarding the Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Accounting policies Financial statements Accounting policies continued incidence, timing and amount of claims and any specific IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures in August 2005. factors such as adverse weather conditions.
In order to calculate The standard replaces IAS 30 Disclosures in the Financial the total provision required, the historical development of Statements of Banks and Similar Financial Institutions and the claims is analysed using statistical methodology to extrapolate, disclosure provisions in IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure within acceptable probability parameters, the value of and Presentation.
IFRS 7 requires disclosure of the significance outstanding claims at the balance sheet date.
Also included in of financial instruments for an entitys financial position and the estimation of outstanding claims are other assumptions performance and of qualitative and quantitative information such as the inflationary factor used for bodily injury claims about exposure to risks arising from financial instruments.
The which is based on historical trends and, therefore, allows for standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 some increase due to changes in common law and statute.
144 Costs for both direct and indirect claims handling expenses are also included.
Outward reinsurance recoveries are accounted for At the same time the IASB issued an amendment Capital in the same accounting period as the direct claims to which they Disclosures to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
The outstanding claims provision is based on information requires disclosures about an entity's capital and the way it is available to management and the eventual outcome may vary managed.
This amendment is also effective for annual periods from the original assessment.
Actual claims experience may differ beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
Earlier application is from the historical pattern on which the estimate is based and encouraged.
the cost of settling individual claims may exceed that assumed.
The IASB has also issued three amendments to IAS 39 Goodwill Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The The Group capitalises goodwill arising on the acquisition of first, Cash Flow Hedge Accounting of Forecast Intragroup businesses, as disclosed in the Accounting policies.
The Transactions, published in April 2005, amends IAS 39 to carrying value of goodwill as at 31 December 2005 was permit the foreign currency risk of a highly probable forecast 18,823 million 2004 18,032 million.
intragroup transaction to qualify as a hedged item in consolidated financial statements.
The amendment is effective Goodwill is the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006. value of its net assets.
The determination of the fair value of assets and liabilities of businesses acquired requires the exercise The second, The Fair Value Option, published in June 2005, of management judgement: for example those financial assets places conditions on the option in IAS 39 to designate on initial and liabilities for which there are no quoted prices, and those recognition a financial asset or financial liability as at fair value non-financial assets where valuations reflect estimates of through profit or loss.
The amendment is effective for annual market conditions such as property.
Different fair values would periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006.
Earlier application result in changes to the goodwill arising and to the post-acquisition is encouraged.
The Group has adopted this amendment from performance of the acquisition.
Goodwill is not amortised but 1 January 2005 see accounting policies on page 136. is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
The third, Financial Guarantee Contracts, published in August 2005, amends IAS 39 and IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts.
The For the purposes of impairment testing goodwill acquired in a amendments define a financial guarantee contract.
They business combination is allocated to each of the Groups cashrequire such contracts to be recorded initially at fair value generating units or groups of cash-generating units expected to and subsequently at higher of the provision determined in benefit from the combination.
Goodwill impairment testing accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities involves the comparison of the carrying value of a cashand Contingent Assets and the amount initially recognised generating unit or group of cash generating units with its less amortisation.
The amendments are effective for annual recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006. unit's fair value and its value in use.
Value in use is the present value of expected future cash flows from the cash-generating In December 2005, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 21 unit or group of cash-generating units.
Fair value is the amount The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates to clarify obtainable for the sale of the cash-generating unit in an arms that a monetary item can form part of the net investment in length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties.
overseas operations regardless of the currency in which it is denominated and that the net investment in a foreign operation Impairment testing inherently involves a number of judgmental can include a loan from a fellow subsidiary.
The amendments areas: the preparation of cash flow forecasts for periods that are effective immediately but have not been endorsed by the EU.
are beyond the normal requirements of management reporting: the assessment of the discount rate appropriate to the The Group is reviewing IFRS 7 and the amendments to IAS 1 business: estimation of the fair value of cash-generating units: and IAS 21 and those to IAS 39 that it has not implemented, and the valuation of the separable assets of each business to determine their effect on its financial reporting.
whose goodwill is being reviewed.
US GAAP Accounting developments For a discussion of recent developments in US GAAP relevant International Financial Reporting Standards to the Group, see Note 46 on the accounts.
The International Accounting Standards Board IASB issued Accounting policies
