Shareholder information continued Taxation for US Holders continued Documents on display A transfer of PROs by a US Holder will not give rise to a charge Documents concerning the company may be inspected at to UK tax on accrued but unpaid interest payments, unless the 36 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 2YB.
US Holder is an individual or other non-corporate taxpayer and at any time in the relevant year of assessment or accounting Executive directors service contracts and copies of directors period carries on a trade in the UK through a branch or agency indemnities granted by the company in terms of section 309C to which the PROs are attributable.
of the Companies Act 1985 may be inspected at the companys office at Gogarburn, Edinburgh, EH12 1HQ Annual tax charges telephone 0131 626 4117.
Corporate US Holders of PROs may be subject to annual UK 268 tax charges or relief by reference to fluctuations in exchange In addition, we file reports and other information with the SEC.
rates and in respect of profits, gains and losses arising from You can read and copy these reports and other information at the PROs, but only if such corporate US Holders carry on a the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N. E. Room trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a UK permanent 1580, Washington, D. C. 20549.
You can call the SEC at 1-800- establishment to which the PROs are attributable.
SEC-0330 for further information on the Public Reference Room or contact the offices of The New York Stock Exchange, Inheritance tax on which certain of our securities are listed, at 20 Broad In relation to PROs held through DTC or any other clearing Street, New York, New York 10005.
The SEC also maintains system, the UK inheritance tax position is not free from doubt a website at www.
gov which contains in electronic form in respect of a lifetime transfer, or death of, a US Holder who each of the reports and other information that we have filed is not domiciled nor deemed to be domiciled in the UK for electronically with the SEC.
inheritance tax purposes: HM Revenue & Customs is known to consider that the situs of securities held in this manner is not necessarily determined by the place where the securities are registered.
In appropriate circumstances, there may be a charge to UK inheritance tax as a result of a lifetime transfer at less than fair market value by, or on the death of, such US Holder.
However, exemption from, or a reduction of, any such UK tax liability may be available under the Estate Tax Treaty.
US Holders should consult their professional advisers in relation to such potential liability.
Stamp duty and SDRT No stamp duty, SDRT or similar tax is imposed in the UK on the issue, transfer or redemption of the PROs.
Exchange controls The company has been advised that there are currently no UK laws, decrees or regulations which would prevent the remittance of dividends or other payments to non-UK resident holders of the companys non-cumulative dollar preference shares.
There are no restrictions under the articles of association of the company or under UK law, as currently in effect, which limit the right of non-UK resident owners to hold or, when entitled to vote, freely to vote the companys non-cumulative dollar preference shares.
Memorandum and articles of association The companys Memorandum of Association the Memorandum and Articles of Association the Articles as in effect at the date of this annual report are registered with the Registrar of Companies of Scotland.
The Articles were last amended on 29 April 2004 and have been filed with the SEC.
