43 Transactions with directors, officers and others a At 31 December 2005, the amounts outstanding in relation to transactions, arrangements and agreements entered into by authorised institutions in the Group, as defined by UK Law, were 149,537 in respect of loans to six persons who were directors of the company or persons connected with them at any time during the financial period and 2,055 to one person who was an officer of the company at any time during the financial period.
b For the purposes of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, key management comprise directors of the company and members of the Group Executive Management Committee.
The captions in the Groups primary financial statements include the following amounts attributable, in aggregate, to key management: 209 2005 2004 000 000 Loans and advances to customers 3,090 2,497 Customer accounts 12,604 8,021 Key management have banking relationships with Group entities which are entered into in the normal course of business.
Key management had no reportable transactions or balances with the company except for dividends.
44 Related parties a Group companies provide development and other types of capital support to businesses in their roles as providers of finance.
These investments are made in the normal course of business and on arms-length terms.
In some instances, the investment may extend to ownership or control over 20% or more of the voting rights of the investee company.
However, these investments are not considered to give rise to transactions of a materiality requiring disclosure under IAS 24. b The Group recharges The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Pension Fund with the cost of administration services incurred by it.
The amounts involved are not material to the Group.
c In accordance with IAS 24, transactions or balances between Group entities that have been eliminated on consolidation are not reported.
d The captions in the primary financial statements of the parent company include amounts attributable to subsidiaries.
These amounts have been disclosed in aggregate in the relevant notes to the financial statements.
section 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes on the accounts Financial statements
