RBS Insurance Profit contribution 926 million 2004 881 million Total income up 8% Profit up 5% 38 Churchill Home Insurance.
David and Catherine Barton switched to Churchill Home Insurance last year.
They loved the brand, saved 200 and found the quality of service excellent.
Make it happen RBS Insurance 39 In the United Kingdom, RBS Insurance is RBS Insurance is the second the No.
1 car insurer, with 8.7 million policies, and largest general insurer in the UK.
2 home insurer, with 4.6 million policies.
It sells and underwrites insurance RBS Insurance now has over 4.9 million car via the telephone, the internet, rescue policies sold through Direct Line, Churchill, Green Flag, Privilege and many partners under partnerships and a network of their brands.
Its brands, including Focus In continental Europe, RBS Insurance Direct Line, Churchill, Privilege, increased its car insurance policies by 14% to 1.9 million.
Green Flag and NIG, are some of the best known in the UK.
In 2005 RBS Insurance is the No.
2 travel insurance provider with 2.3 million policies: its pet policies Make it happen RBS Insurance increased its total increased by 20% to 0.6 million.
Direct Line launched several major enhancements to its car product, including a No The integration of the Direct Line and Claims Discount NCD for named drivers on Churchill businesses was completed at the start of a Direct Line policy, multi-car discounts, matched September 2005, within two years, ahead of time NCD and an NCD earned on company cars and and within budget.
The combined businesses now motorbikes.
Lnea Directa became Spains sixth largest We celebrated the 20th anniversary of the motor insurer this year with 1.2 million in-force Direct Line red telephone in 2005.
When it first policies and is now selling breakdown cover direct opened for business in April 1985, Direct Line to customers.
Direct Line in Germany launched employed just 63 people.
Today it employs around motor legal protection.
6,500 people and handles an average of 12,000 car quotes every day.
Since the re-launch of Privilege in August 2004, the you dont have to be posh to be Across its range of brands and products, privileged campaign has delivered excellent brand RBS Insurance increased its total policies in-force recognition and sales, with in-force car policies by 1.6 million to 25.9 million.
Within this, total car increasing by 50% and breakdown policies by policies increased by 5.7% to 10.6 million across 43% respectively.
the UK and continental Europe.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Divisional review RBS Insurance continued RBS Insurance is the strength behind some of the UKs biggest and best known insurance brands offering customers more choice and better products.
40 Churchill launched its new travel product in Awards June, with customers now able to tailor cover to Direct Line Car Insurer of the Year Personal Finance Magazine their individual travel needs.
TRACKER, which specialises in recovering Direct Line Best Motor Insurance Provider Your Money Magazine stolen vehicles, was acquired in 2005.
TRACKER traced and recovered more than 36 million worth of Direct Line Best Online Motor Insurance stolen cars and plant equipment over the year.
In one Provider case, a vehicle was recovered in just 21 minutes.
Your Money Magazine NIG held six SME Business Academy Direct Line Best Household Insurer roadshows throughout the country.
The key Your Mortgage Magazine objective of these events was to build NIGs profile in the regions and forge close links with brokers Direct Line Special Achievement Award and SME customers.
Superbrands NIG joined imarket, the industry e-commerce Churchill Best Home and Contents initiative designed to make it easier for brokers to Insurance Provider transact commercial business electronically.
Your Money Direct Awards Continuing their consumer champion roles, Churchill Travel Insurer of the Year Direct Line and Green Flag were again the headline International Travel Insurance Journal Awards sponsors of Road Safety Week.
Organised by road safety charity Brake each November to highlight Churchill Customer Service Complaints road safety issues, the 2005 theme was child Team of the Year pedestrian safety.
The National Customer Service Awards Direct Line partnered Durham Police in a Green Flag Best Breakdown Provider high profile campaign to tackle the problem of Your Money Magazine uninsured driving.
By the end of 2005, more than 1,000 uninsured vehicles, which Direct Line Green Flag Best Online Breakdown Provider estimates would have caused up to 2,000 Your Money Magazine accidents, had been removed from the streets of Durham County.
Green Flag UK Roadside Assistance Company of 2005 Institute of Transport Management Awards NIG Risk Management Product of the Year for All Risk Management ARM European Risk Management Awards Make it happen RBS Insurance 41 TRACKER has provided Balfour Beatty Power Networks with the ability to track its vehicles 24:7 via data on the internet.
It has greatly improved vehicle management, efficiency, flexibility and driver safety and reduced insurance premiums.
Over 1,000 uninsured cars have been taken off the roads as part of a joint initiative between Durham Police and Direct Line.
Drivers who can't provide evidence of insurance within 14 days have their cars crushed.
For the broker market, quick and accurate online quotations are an important part of their competitive offering.
NIGs Commercial Quotes system is regularly accessed by brokers such as Saffron Insurance to provide commercial insurance for their customers.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Divisional review
