Retail Markets Profit contribution 4,207 million 2004 4,064 million Total income up 7% Profit up 4% 22 RBS Child Trust Fund.
RBS was one of the first banks to offer a Child Trust Fund in response to the Governments commitment to give 250 to each child born after September 2002.
RBS has matched the 250 with discounted retail vouchers and created a new stakeholder product to capitalise on the value the child will receive at 18.
Make it happen Retail Markets 23 Retail Banking has the largest network of bank Retail Markets was established branches and ATMs in the UK and is the leading bank in June 2005 to strengthen for small business customers.
In 2005 Retail Banking increased its total income by 5% to 5,433 million.
co-ordination and delivery of Passion our full range of retail services In 2005 our measures to improve customer service were rewarded when The Royal Bank of through all our brands and Scotland secured top position amongst the high street banks, and NatWest moved into joint second position, channels.
It has brought together for customers who rate themselves extremely the three businesses Retail satisfied with their main current account provider.
Source: Gfk Financial Research Survey, 12 months to November Banking, Retail Direct and Wealth 2005: high street banks defined as RBS, NatWest, Barclays, Lloyds TSB, HSBC and HBOS.
Management which focus on Make it happen the interests of our personal We added nearly 800 people to our Royal Bank of Scotland and NatWest branch networks and small business customers.
and telephony service, improved personal access for customers by opening new branches and In a challenging market, Retail continuing our refurbishment programme, increased Markets increased total income the number of branches open on Saturdays and extended our mobile banking service.
Our quality of service has also been The number of personal Retail Banking enhanced by our new Customer Service Review customers increased by 274,000 2%, with personal Personal Service Review, which enables our people current accounts up 275,000 2% : Retail Direct to run a comprehensive financial health check increased its total customer accounts by 734,000 tailored to a customers individual circumstances.
4% : and Wealth Management increased its client The Review offers recommendations to meet the base with Coutts UK personal customers up 7% customers immediate and future needs.
revised Customer Account Opening system enables our customers to open additional accounts within In Retail Banking, average loans and minutes, whether they use our branches, telephone advances to customers grew by 11%, with average service or the internet.
mortgage balances up 12%, personal lending up 10% and small business lending up 9%.
In Retail Continued emphasis on long-term savings, Direct, average loans to customers grew by 15%, assisted by excellent salesforce recruitment and personal loan balances grew by 11% and retention, resulted in an increase of 25% in sales in mortgage lending grew by 34%.
In Wealth our joint venture for life assurance and investments.
Management, average loans to clients grew by The second half of 2005 saw record sales volumes, 20%, while average client deposits grew by 11%.
Our team of Financial Planning Managers continues to grow, with more of them located in our branches to broaden the services we can offer through the network.
The launch of new investment products enabled us to provide our customers with more choice and better value.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Divisional review Retail Markets continued Retail Banking provides customers with a choice of when and how they do their banking through access to branches, a 24-hour telephone banking service, a network of ATMs and a full internet banking service.
24 The Royal Bank of Scotland and NatWest the start of their loan, and can then update their attracted more than 135,000 new Stakeholder choices if their circumstances alter.
We also Child Trust Funds during 2005, making us one launched Client Money Services, a unique product of the key providers of this product.
that enables our business customers to manage their client funds simply and easily.
Partly through its network of 54 campus branches, NatWest yet again achieved No.
1 status Retail Direct has leading positions in the UK for student accounts.
Of first-year students in in credit card issuing, merchant acquiring, England and Wales, 44% chose to open a student consumer finance and supermarket banking.
In 2005 Retail Direct increased its total income by 11% to 1,966 million.
The Royal Bank of Scotland launched First Home Saver, a new savings account designed to Retail Directs Credit Cards business is help customers get onto the property ladder by one of Europes leading issuers of personal and encouraging them to save regularly for the deposit, commercial credit cards, as well as one of the and by giving a tax-free bonus on taking out a major global merchant acquirers.
Royal Bank of Scotland mortgage.
The personal cards issuing business issues In September 2005, Royal Bank of Scotland personal credit cards to customers of The Royal Business was voted No.
1 for service to small business Bank of Scotland and NatWest primarily through customers in Scotland.
branches, and also to non-banked customers using the MINT brand through direct channels.
Mentor, our Business Advice Service for Employment Law, Health & Safety and Tax, reached During 2005, we introduced an enhanced more than 15,000 customers last year.
It is the credit card offer for The Royal Bank of Scotland fastest-growing service of its type in the UK and and NatWest brand cards, with preferential pricing increased income by 18% whilst delivering significant for current account holders.
In addition, the MINT improvements to our proposition, including training brand continued to improve the quality and breadth in Health & Safety and Employment Law.
of service it offers to customers by launching motor and home insurance.
Loans to our small business customers were up 9% in 2005.
Deposits by small business The commercial cards business has customers, taking advantage of our competitive maintained its leading position in the UK.
It offers a range of products, grew by 4%.
range of corporate cards, purchasing cards and travel solutions to a broad range of businesses.
It 13,000 customers have opened a Flexible enhanced its services by including Smart data Business Loan, our market-leading product that online as part of the onecard package.
This allows enables business customers to customise their business customers to receive and analyse all loan.
They can choose from a range of options at transaction data centrally.
Make it happen Retail Markets 25 NatWest Business Managers.
In 2005 NatWest re-introduced local business managers covering 180 key branches.
In Fareham Chris Jack meets Nick Bowes of Airport Bodyshop on his premises.
Last year NatWest launched a new mobile bank in Cornwall bringing banking services to 13 local communities weekly, travelling around 20,000 miles per year.
Here it is seen on the Cornish coast.
Retailer Card Services provides Google with a multi-currency capability, which enables the processing and settlement of credit card transactions in a wide choice of major international currencies.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Divisional review Retail Markets continued Retail Direct offers a full range of financial services products through a number of brands and a variety of convenient channels in the UK and continental Europe.
26 Tesco Personal Finance in Hungary.
Our joint venture with Tesco is developing its presence in Europe.
Financial services products are now available through Tesco Personal Finance in Hungary.
Make it happen Retail Markets 27 Our merchant acquiring business is the Wealth Management provides private banking and fourth-largest merchant acquirer globally.
The investment services to its global clients through a business enhanced its product range during 2005, number of leading UK and overseas private banking enabling retailers to offer customers the ability to subsidiaries and offshore banking businesses.
top up their mobile phones through point-of-sale It has a network of more than 50 offices globally.
The business is now European leader in In 2005 Wealth Management increased its total online merchant acquiring.
Retail Direct has worked closely with the Investment assets under management Groups Irish mortgage business, First Active, increased by 18%.
Investment programmes within to launch the brand in the UK.
First Active has Wealth Management have grown by 18% to US$27 established itself as one of the fastest-growing UK billion and continue to perform competitively mortgage lenders with total gross lending of 3.9 against industry benchmarks.
Coutts is a significant billion in 2005, and has expanded its product range investor in multi-manager hedge funds with more with the launch of a buy-to-let mortgage product.
RBSs mortgage intermediary business was Adam & Company continued its eleven year brought under the stewardship of Retail Direct record of double-digit profit growth, and opened a during 2005, in order to co-ordinate the Groups new office in Aberdeen.
mortgage brand offer in the growing intermediary marketplace.
The Offshore Bank grew income by 7% and launched a Spanish Mortgage product During the year the number of customer available across the Group to all customers.
accounts at Tesco Personal Finance exceeded five Offshore mortgage balances increased by 35% million.
First Active supported the launch of two and Royal Bank of Scotland International is a new TPF mortgage products, making TPF the only leading provider in the UK offshore islands supermarket bank to offer mortgages.
Retail Direct of electronic banking services.
also continued to support the development of Tescos financial services operations in Central Coutts continued to enhance its position as Europe and Asia.
the leading private bank in the UK and increased its client base by 7%.
A philanthropy service was Elsewhere in Europe our relationship with launched in 2005, which won Coutts the title of Best Tchibo, a major German retailer, has grown Provider of Philanthropy Services.
Coutts also successfully, with the offer of consumer loans now launched its Family Business Service, offering extended across the store network in Germany specialist advice as well as education and and online.
networking forums for family business owners.
In parallel, Coutts created its family prize and sponsored the Guide to Giving.
Internationally, Coutts celebrated 10 years in Singapore in 2005.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Divisional review Retail Markets continued Wealth Management provides private banking and investment services to its global clients through a number of leading UK and overseas private banking subsidiaries and offshore banking businesses.
28 Selected Awards First Active Best Remortgage Lender The Royal Bank of Scotland Best for Overall Customer Service category Mortgage Magazine Awards and Mortgage Advisor 2005 Personal Finance and Savings Readership Awards & Homebuyer Awards NatWest Kirkham Branch Customer Service The One account Best Current Team of the Year Financial Services Award Account Mortgage Lender National Customer Service Awards 2005 Your Mortgage Magazine The Royal Bank of Scotland Best Direct Direct Line Best Personal Loan Provider Banking for the fifth year in a row MoneyFacts Your Money Direct Awards 2005 Streamline Best Merchant Acquirer The Royal Bank of Scotland Best Online 2005 Europe Business Banking Provider for the second year in a row Lafferty Group Your Money Direct Awards 2005 MINT Best Credit Card Direct Mail, Lombard Best Online Loan Provider Peoples Choice award Your Money Direct Awards 2005 Tank!
Direct Marketing Association NatWest Mortgages Direct Commercial Cards Best Business Best Mortgage Provider Charge Card Provider Your Money Direct Awards 2005 Business Moneyfacts Tesco Personal Finance Coutts Best Private Bank in the UK Best Overall Provider Euromoney Your Money Direct Awards 2005 Coutts Best Private Bank for super-affluent individuals US$500k to US$1m NatWest Mortgages Best Bank, Best Large Loans and Highly Commended Remortgage Lender Euromoney Your Mortgage Awards Coutts Best Private Bank for high net worth individuals US$1m to US$10m The Royal Bank of Scotland Best Business Bank Euromoney Start Your Business Magazine Coutts Best provider of services to First Active Best Mortgage Lender of the artists and entertainers Year and Innovator of the Year Euromoney Mortgage Strategy Awards Coutts Best provider of services to sports players Euromoney Make it happen Retail Markets 29 Stella McCartney is one of the most successful of Britains young fashion designers with a now well recognised luxury brand.
Stella and Coutts have a fruitful commercial relationship including exclusive customer events for Coutts clients.
For Jill Hewitt and her nine year old son Jack, value for money is important.
Last May after consolidating her mortgage and a home improvement loan into a fixed rate mortgage with First Active, she saved over 100 a month.
One Day as the advertisements say Ill have my own music studio.
Mark Young transferred his mortgage to The One account three years ago and saved enough to convert one of the bedrooms in the family home.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Divisional review
