Governance Directors responsibility statement 46 Directors responsibility statement The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with The Directors, having prepared the financial statements, have the report of the independent auditors, is made with a view to requested the auditors to take whatever steps and to undertake distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the whatever inspections they consider appropriate for the purpose of Directors and auditors in relation to the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and The statement from the Chairman and the Chief Executive on Accounts.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the pages 4 to 5 and the operating and financial review on pages Group keeps proper accounting records.
They are required by 6 to 17 contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to company law to prepare financial statements which give a true and the financial condition, and results of, operations and businesses fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group of the Group.
These statements and forecasts involve risk and at the end of the financial year and of the results for the year.
uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on They are also responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard circumstances that may occur in the future.
There are a number of the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ other irregularities.
materially from those expressed or implied by these forwardlooking statements and forecasts.
Nothing in this report should be The Directors remain satisfied that the Group has adequate construed as a profit forecast.
resources to continue in business and accordingly that the financial statements should be drawn up on a going concern basis.
Further, appropriate accounting policies consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates have been used in the preparation of these financial statements and applicable accounting standards have been followed.
These policies and standards, for which the Directors accept responsibility, have been discussed with the auditors.
