Annual General Meeting Notice of Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting 114 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the 2006 Annual General Meeting Election of Directors appointed since the last Annual of Schroders plc will be held at 31 Gresham Street, London General Meeting EC2V 7QA on Wednesday 26 April 2006 at 11.30 a. m. to transact the following business: 4.
That Luc Bertrand, who retires in accordance with Article 87, be elected as a Director of the Company.
That Alan Brown, who retires in accordance with Article 87, To consider and, if thought fit, to pass resolutions numbered be elected as a Director of the Company.
1 to 12 as Ordinary Resolutions requiring a majority of more than 50 per cent.
and resolutions 13 and 14 as Special Resolutions Under Article 87 of the Companys Articles of Association any requiring a majority of not less than 75 per cent.. Director appointed to office by the Board may only hold office until the next Annual General Meeting, when shareholders have the Report & Accounts opportunity to vote on his election.
Accordingly, Luc Bertrand, who was appointed on 1 March 2006, and Alan Brown, who was 1.
That the Report of the Directors and the Accounts of the appointed on 5 July 2005, are seeking election.
Company for the year ended 31 December 2005 be received and adopted.
Luc Bertrand was appointed a Director after careful consideration and brings to the Board a broad experience of business in For each financial year the Directors are required to present the continental Europe, a region which is of great importance to Report of the Directors and the Accounts of the Company for Schroders.
Accordingly, the Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005 are now presented and Alan Brown is the Head of Investment which is one of the key proposed for adoption.
functions within the Company and a senior member of the executive team.
Final dividend Profiles of Luc Bertrand and Alan Brown can be found on pages 2.
That a final dividend of 14.5 pence per share on the ordinary 21 and 19 respectively.
The Board supports the election of both shares and on the non-voting ordinary shares as recommended Luc Bertrand and Alan Brown.
by the Directors be declared payable on 28 April 2006 to shareholders on the register on 24 March 2006.
The payment of the final dividend of 14.5 pence per share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2005, which is recommended by the Board, requires the approval of shareholders in general meeting.
That the remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2005 be approved.
Under section 234B of the Companies Act 1985 the Directors must prepare an annual report detailing the remuneration of the Directors and the Companys remuneration policy.
Section 241A requires that a resolution be put to shareholders each year for their approval of that report.
The remuneration report can be found on pages 28 to 38.
This notice therefore contains a resolution to approve the remuneration report for the year to 31 December 2005.
The result of this resolution is advisory only.
Annual General Meeting Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notice of Annual General Meeting 115 Re-election of Directors having attained the age of seventy Auditors Resolutions 10 and 11 Resolutions 6 to 8 10.
That  LLP be and are hereby 6.
That George Mallinckrodt, who retires in accordance with reappointed as auditors of the Company to hold office from Article 89, be re-elected as a Director of the Company.
the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the 7.
That Michael Miles, who retires in accordance with Article 89, Company in accordance with section 241 of the Companies be re-elected as a Director of the Company.
That Bruno Schroder, who retires in accordance with Article 11.
That the Directors be authorised to fix the remuneration of 89, be re-elected as a Director of the Company.
 LLP as auditors of the Company.
Under Articles 84 and 89 of the Companys Articles of Association The Companys auditors must offer themselves for reappointment Directors must retire and offer themselves for re-election annually at each Annual General Meeting at which accounts are presented.
once they have attained the age of seventy.
This applies to Accordingly, the Board, on the recommendation of the Audit George Mallinckrodt, Michael Miles and Bruno Schroder and they Committee, proposes the re-appointment of offer themselves for re-election.
Profiles of these Directors are  LLP as the Companys auditors.
Resolution 11 authorises the Directors to agree the remuneration The Board believes that it is appropriate for George Mallinckrodt to of  LLP for their services as auditors.
be re-elected in view of his many years international business experience and therefore supports his re-election.
The Board feels The Schroders Equity Compensation Plan 2000 Michael Miles has led the Board ably over the past year and remains the most appropriate person to continue to lead the 12.
That the amendments to the Schroders Equity Compensation Board and therefore the Board supports his re-election.
The Board Plan 2000 the Plan described in this notice of meeting be further believes that it is appropriate for Bruno Schroder, as the and are hereby approved and the Directors be and are representative of our principal shareholder group, to be re-elected.
hereby authorised to do everything that may be necessary to implement the amendments.
Re-election of Directors not later than the third Annual General Meeting following last election or re-election The Board recommends and seeks shareholder approval for amendment to the rules of the Plan to allow share awards to be 9.
That Kevin Parry, who retires in accordance with Article 88, be made over voting ordinary shares in the Company.
re-elected as a Director of the Company.
Awards under this Plan represent the compulsory deferral of part Under Article 88 of the Companys Articles of Association Directors of the participants annual bonus.
Further details on how the Plan must retire and offer themselves for re-election not later than the works are contained in the remuneration report on page 30. third Annual General Meeting following his or her election or last Currently, awards may either consist of the right to acquire nonre-election to the Board.
Kevin Parry is retiring from office under voting ordinary shares in the Company at the end of the deferral this Article and offers himself for re-election.
Kevin Parrys profile is period or the right to be paid a cash sum representing notional contained on page 21. units in a range of Schroders investment products.
The Board supports the re-election of Kevin Parry who, in addition Where the award is in respect of non-voting ordinary shares, it is to his contribution to the Board, is Chairman of the Audit the Companys practice to fund, through an employee benefit Committee which has a significant role in the independent trust, the purchase of sufficient non-voting ordinary shares to monitoring of the Groups controls and scrutiny of the Companys satisfy outstanding awards.
However, the market in the financial statements.
Mr Parry is also a valuable member of the Companys non-voting ordinary shares is relatively thin and there Remuneration Committee.
have been times when the employee benefit trust has not been able easily or at a sensible cost to acquire sufficient non-voting The Chairman and the senior non-executive Director, Sir Peter Job, ordinary shares.
in respect of the Chairman, confirm that following the completion of the Board evaluation process in 2005, the election and re-election of the Directors named in resolutions 5 to 9 is recommended.
Annual General Meeting Notice of Annual General Meeting 116 Accordingly, it is proposed that the Plan be amended so that share If passed, this resolution would renew the Companys general awards may be over either voting or non-voting ordinary shares.
authority to make purchases of its non-voting ordinary shares.
This The proposed amendment will allow the share awards made in authority relates to 14,750,000 shares, representing approximately March this year to be converted into awards over voting ordinary 5 per cent.
of the total issued share capital and some 21 per cent.
Voting ordinary shares required for the purposes of share of the issued non-voting ordinary share capital.
The authority sets awards will be purchased in the market: no new voting ordinary limits on the price which may be paid for any shares and is limited shares will be issued for the purposes of the Plan.
to market purchases on the London Stock Exchange or so far as required under the Listing Rules by tender offer to all shareholders.
The revised draft of the rules of The Schroders Equity Compensation Plan 2000, showing the proposed changes, will Since the previous authority was granted at the Annual General be available for inspection as detailed on page 117.
Meeting on 19 April 2005 1,702,490 non-voting ordinary shares have been repurchased and cancelled at a total cost of Authority to purchase own shares 14,914,974.
The Board has no plans to use this authority generally if it is renewed.
However, they do intend that, if the 13.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and authority is given, the Company would exercise its right to make unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within purchases with a view to maintaining over the medium term the the meaning of section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 as ratio of ordinary shares to non-voting ordinary shares, taking into amended of non-voting ordinary shares of 1 each Shares, account the issue of non-voting ordinary shares under the subject to the following conditions: Companys share or share option plans.
a such authority be limited to a maximum number of If the authority is given, it will only be used if at all to purchase 14,750,000 Shares: shares in order to reduce the capital of the Company and accordingly any non-voting ordinary shares purchased pursuant to b the maximum price, exclusive of expenses, at which the authority sought in this resolution would be cancelled.
In Shares may be purchased is the higher of: addition, purchases would only be made where the Directors believed that they were in the best interests of the Company, i 5 per cent.
above the average of the middle market taking into account other available investment opportunities and quotations for the Shares as derived from the London the overall financial position of the Group.
Purchases would only Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business be made where earnings per share would be increased except days preceding the date of purchase or, in the case of a possibly in respect of purchases made in relation to the issue of tender offer, the date the tender offer is announced: and non-voting ordinary shares under the Companys share or share option plans.
ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange Official List at the time the purchase is carried out: c the minimum price at which Shares may be purchased is 1 per share, exclusive of expenses: d such authority shall, unless renewed prior to such time, expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company save that the Company may before such expiry enter into a contract to purchase Shares which would or might be completed or executed wholly or partly after its expiry and may make a purchase of Shares in pursuance of any such contract.
Annual General Meeting Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notice of Annual General Meeting 117 Notes Authority for buy back and cancellation of An ordinary shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to subscriber shares appoint one or more proxies to attend and insofar as permitted by the Companys Articles of Association to vote instead of him or her.
That the terms of the draft agreement between the Company A proxy need not be a member.
A form of proxy is enclosed for ordinary shareholders and the holders of the subscriber shares, for the purchase which should be completed and returned to the Companys registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6BN not later than 48 from these shareholders by the Company of 200 subscriber hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
Completion of the proxy will not preclude shares of one pence each in the capital of the Company, as an ordinary shareholder from attending and voting in person.
set out in the draft agreement produced to the meeting and Shareholders who prefer to register the appointment of their proxy electronically via initialled for the purposes of identification by the Chairman of the internet can do so at www.
co. uk where full instructions are given.
The the meeting, be and is hereby approved, and that the personal reference number, card ID and account number printed on the proxy form Company be and is hereby authorised to enter into that will be required.
Alternatively, shareholders who have already registered with Lloyds TSB Registrars Shareview service can appoint their proxy by logging on to their agreement on such terms, such authority to expire at the portfolio at www.
co. uk and clicking on Company Meetings.
A proxy conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the appointment made electronically will not be valid if sent to any address other than Company.
those provided or if received after 11.30 a. m. on 24 April 2006.
Any communication found to contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
On 29 February 2000 the two issued ordinary shares of 1 each Only those ordinary shareholders on the register of members as at 6.00 p. m. on 24 April 2006 will be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of of the Company were subdivided into 200 shares of one pence shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of each and re-classified as subscriber shares.
On 18 April 2000, the members after 6.00 p. m. on 24 April 2006 will be disregarded in determining the Company became the new parent company of the Schroders rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Group pursuant to a scheme of arrangement approved by the CREST members who wish to appoint and or instruct a proxy or proxies through the High Court.
Since the listing of the Companys shares, the holders CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General of the subscriber shares have had no right to be paid a dividend Meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
Users of CREST, including Personal Members, should refer to their and no voting rights under Article 5 of the Articles of Association.
CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Instructions and information on voting can be found in the The Directors recommend the buying back of all issued subscriber CREST Manual.
The message must be transmitted and received by the issuers shares and the subsequent cancellation of the subscriber share agent ID 7RA01 by 11.30 a. m. on the 24 April 2006.
Submission timings and system limitations can be found in the CREST Manual.
class because the share class is no longer required.
The It is the responsibility of the CREST member, CREST sponsor or voting service subscriber shares will be bought back at par.
provider to ensure the message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any specified time and therefore they are referred to the CREST Manual.
The A proxy form is enclosed to enable shareholders unable to Company may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the attend the meeting to cast their votes by post at the Annual circumstances set out in regulation 35 5 a of the Un-certificated Securities Regulations 2001.
The following documents will be available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours on weekdays and will be available for inspection By Order of the Board at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting: Register of Directors interests kept in accordance with section 325 of the Graham Staples Companies Act 1985: Company Secretary Articles of Association: Directors service contracts or letters of appointment: Registered office: Amendments to the Schroders Equity Compensation Plan 2000: and 31 Gresham Street Agreement for purchase of subscriber shares.
