If you then agree to the terms sponsors for assistance with appointing Baillie Gifford Savings Management and conditions, in future, on the day that proxies via CREST.
For further information Limited is wholly owned by Baillie Gifford documents are sent to shareholders by on CREST procedures, limitations and & Co.
Both are authorised and regulated post, you will receive an e-mail providing systems timings, please refer to the CREST by the Financial Services Authority.
Baillie the website address link to the Manual.
The Company may treat as Gifford only provides information about its documents.
After you register, paper invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST products and does not provide investment documents will be available on request.
in the circumstances set out in Regulation advice.
The staff of Baillie Gifford may 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities hold shares in Scottish Mortgage and may Electronic Proxy Voting You can also Regulations 2001.
Computershare Investor buy or sell such shares subject to Baillie return proxies electronically at Services PLC is authorised and regulated Giffords personal account dealing rules.
by the Financial Services Authority.
If you have registered for electronic Risks Where this has been received in a country communications you will be issued a where the provision of such a service would PIN number to use when returning Past performance is no guarantee of future be contrary to local laws or regulations, this proxies to the secure Registrar website.
The capital value of and should be treated as information only.
You do not need to register for electronic income distributed by an investment trust communications to use electronic proxy can go down as well as up and an Scottish Mortgage is an investment voting, paper proxy forms will contain a investor may not get back the amount trust.
Investment trusts offer PIN number to allow you to return originally invested.
The price of an proxies electronically.
investors the following: investment trust share will fluctuate in accordance with supply and demand Participation in a diversified portfolio If you have any questions about these and may not reflect the underlying net of shares.
services please contact Computershare asset value.
Constant supervision by experienced on 0870 702 0000. professional managers.
Investment trusts can borrow money to CREST Proxy Voting The Company is free from capital gains make further investments, which is tax on capital profits realised within its If you are a user of the CREST system commonly referred to as gearing.
The risk portfolio although investors are still liable including a CREST Personal Member, is that when this money is repaid by the for capital gains tax on profits when you may appoint one or more proxies or trust, the value of these investments may selling their investment.
give an instruction to a proxy by having an not be enough to cover the borrowing appropriate CREST message transmitted.
These accounts have been approved by and interest costs and the trust makes a To appoint a proxy or to give an the Directors of Scottish Mortgage loss.
If the trusts investments fall in value, instruction to a proxy whether previously Investment Trust PLC.
Baillie Gifford Savings gearing will increase the amount of the appointed or otherwise via the CREST Management Limited is the ISA Manager loss in value to investors.
The more highly system, the CREST message must be of the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA, the trust is geared, the greater this effect received by the issuers agent ID number the PEP Manager of the Baillie Gifford will be.
3RA50 not later than 48 hours before Investment Trust PEP, the Manager of As Scottish Mortgage invests in overseas the time appointed for holding the meeting.
the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust securities, changes in the rates of exchange For this purpose, the time of receipt will be Share Plan and Childrens Savings Plan may also cause the value of your taken to be the time as determined by the and the promoter of the Baillie Gifford investment to go down or up.
timestamp generated by the CREST system Select Pension.
Alliance Trust Savings from which the issuers agent is able to Limited is the provider, trustee and The value of ISA and PEP tax advantages retrieve the message.
CREST Personal administrator of the Alliance Trust Personal will depend on personal circumstances.
Members or other CREST sponsored Pension Plan through which the Baillie Tax rates and reliefs may change in the members should contact their CREST Gifford Select Pension is made available.
52 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Scottish Mortgages shares are traded on Baillie Giffords Investment the London Stock Exchange.
They can be Trust PEP Transfer bought through a stockbroker, by asking a You can transfer an existing PEP to professional adviser to do so, or through access a different market or to change the Baillie Gifford savings vehicles see your investment manager minimum value below.
Baillie Giffords Investment Baillie Gifford Select Pension Trust Share Plan The Baillie Gifford Select Pension, provided You can invest from 250 or from 30 by Alliance Trust Savings Limited is a per month.
The plan is designed to be a self-invested personal pension.
The cost-effective way of saving on a regular minimum contribution is 50 per month.
Further Information Baillie Giffords Investment Retail Investments Department Trust ISA Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited You can invest in a tax efficient way by Calton Square investing a minimum of 2,000 or from 1 Greenside Row 250 per month or by transferring an ISA EDINBURGH EH1 3AN with a value of at least 2,000 from your existing manager.
Tel: 0800 027 0133 We may record your call Baillie Giffords Childrens Savings Plan E-mail: its@bailliegifford.
com A cost-effective plan tailored especially to Website: www.
com meet the requirements to save for children.
You can invest a minimum of 250 or from Fax: 0131 275 3955 30 per month.
Directors Registrar Banker Company Broker Auditor Chairman: Computershare Investor The Bank of New York UBS Investment Bank KPMG Audit Plc Sir Donald MacKay Services PLC 1 Finsbury Avenue Saltire Court PO Box 82 London EC2M 2PP 20 Castle Terrace GA Ball The Pavilions Edinburgh EH1 2EG MM Gray Bridgwater Road WG McQueen Bristol BS99 7NH JPHS Scott Tel: 0870 702 0010 Lord Strathclyde Company registration No.
7058 Managers, Secretaries and Registered Office Baillie Gifford & Co Calton Square 1 Greenside Row Edinburgh EH1 3AN Tel: 0131 275 2000 website: www.
