FURTHER SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Further Shareholder Information This is not a recommendation to buy, sell How to Invest Share Register Enquiries or hold shares in Scottish Mortgage.
If you The Companys shares are traded on the Computershare Investor Services PLC are unsure of what action to take contact a London Stock Exchange.
They can be maintains the share register on financial adviser authorised under the bought by placing an order with a behalf of the Company.
In the event of Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. stockbroker, by asking a professional queries regarding shares registered in your Please note that share values may go adviser to do so, or through the Baillie own name, please contact the Registrar on down as well as up, which may result in Gifford savings vehicles see inside back 0870 702 0010.
By quoting the you receiving less than you originally cover for details.
reference number on your share certificate invested.
you can check your holding on the Registrars web site: Sources of Further Information Computershare Investor Services PLC is www-uk.
on the Company authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
The price of shares is quoted daily in the Financial Times and can also be Telephone Share Dealing Service Where this has been received in a country found on the Baillie Gifford website at where the provision of such a service A telephone share dealing service has www.
com, Trustnet at would be contrary to local laws or been established with our Registrar, www.
co. uk and on other financial regulations, this should be treated as Computershare Investor Services PLC, websites.
Company factsheets are also information only.
which provides shareholders with a way available on the Baillie Gifford website of buying or selling Scottish Mortgage and are updated monthly.
These are Investment Trust PLC ordinary shares on Electronic Communications and available from Baillie Gifford on request.
There are no Proxy Voting forms to complete and the share price at If you hold stock in your own name you Key Dates which you deal will generally be confirmed can choose to receive communications Ordinary shareholders normally receive two to you whilst you are still on the telephone.
from the Company, and vote, in electronic dividends in respect of each financial year.
Please ensure you have your Shareholder format.
This method reduces costs, is An interim dividend is paid at the end of Reference Number SRN ready when environmentally friendly and, for many, is November and a final dividend is paid in making the call.
The SRN appears convenient too.
The paragraphs below early July.
The AGM is normally held in on your share certificate.
For further explain how you can use these services.
information about this service please phone 0870 702 0000.
Electronic Communications If you would Capital Gains Tax Please note that this share dealing like to take advantage of this service, For Capital Gains Tax indexation service is not available to shareholders please visit our Registrars website at purposes, the market value adjusted for the participating in the Baillie Gifford www-uk.
com investor bonus issue of 4 for 1 of an ordinary Investment Trust Share Plan, Childrens and register.
You will need your share in the Company as at 31 March Savings Plan, ISA, PEP and Select shareholder reference number which is 1982 was 30.6p.
on your share certificate and tax voucher SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 51
