NOTES TO ACCOUNTS investment activities provides opportunities instruments generally arise as a result of 22 Directors Interest in Contracts for both market appreciation and currency strategic investment decisions.
No Director has a contract of service with gains, but leaves it exposed to the risk of The Companys Managers may not enter the Company.
market volatility and currency fluctuations.
into derivative transactions without the prior During the year no Director was interested In the case of an investment trust, capital approval of the Board, and all borrowing in any contract or other matter requiring profits from investing activities and currency facilities require Board authorisation.
The disclosure under section 232 of the gains are not recognised in the revenue Board agrees policies for managing risk Companies Act 1985. account, but are credited directly to a with the Companys Managers.
The main separate capital reserve which the Company risks arising from the Companys financial is prohibited from distributing in the form of instruments are market risk as noted above, 23 Contingencies, Guarantees dividends.
interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and and Financial Commitments foreign currency risk.
Gearing At the year end the Company had a The Company has long term and short term Interest Rate Risk contingent liability amounting to 14 million borrowings.
The aim of the use of gearing is The Company finances its operations by 2004 14 million under a subscription to enhance long term returns to shareholders means of called up share capital, realised agreement relating to participating loan by investing borrowed funds in equities and capital profits, retained revenue reserves, notes.
The obligation will expire on other assets.
bank borrowings and the issue of debenture 31 December 2005.
How and where borrowings are invested is stocks.
The value of the Companys bond reviewed by the Board in consultation with portfolio is subject to interest rate risk.
It is not the Managers at every Board meeting.
In the Companys policy to hedge this risk.
24 Summary of Main light of the decisions made, appropriate Investment Restrictions The Company has negotiated short term adjustments to the gearing position are multi-currency borrowing facilities at interest as incorporated within the Investment then made by the Managers.
Details of rates linked to LIBOR and may draw down Management Agreement between the borrowings and where they are invested is funds for periods up to 3 years.
Company and Baillie Gifford & Co given in monthly Factsheets published on The Company has issued a mix of stepped the Managers website, Holding size and fixed interest debenture stocks.
At the time of investment, a maximum of stepped interest debenture stocks have 8% of total assets may be invested in any During the year the Company was given an reached their final step and are deemed one holding.
This restriction does not apply Aaa Issuer Rating by Moodys.
Issuer Ratings to be fixed.
to investment in collective investment are opinions of the ability of entities to honour Credit Risk schemes, issues by way of rights or certain senior unsecured financial obligations and In addition to interest rate risk, the Companys government bonds.
investments in bonds are also subject to credit A maximum of 40% of total assets may be The Companys revenue account may be risk.
Credit risk reflects the possibility that a invested in holdings exceeding 3% of the affected by fluctuations in short term interest borrower will not be able to meet its value of the Companys total assets.
Again, rates: income from overseas investment can obligation to make payments of interest or this restriction does not apply to collective be affected by currency fluctuations.
principal when they fall due.
The Managers investment schemes, issues by way of rights analyse the credit risk of the Companys The Companys financial instruments, which or certain government bonds.
bond investments prior to purchase and provide finance for investment activities, continue to monitor developments in credit comprise its debenture stocks, its long and Categories of investment quality subsequently.
short term borrowings, and its cash and No investment shall be made on which there liquid resources.
In addition to the equity is unlimited liability.
Liquidity Risk portfolio, the Company maintains investments The Companys policy with regard to liquidity The Managers must seek permission of the in UK and overseas corporate bonds as part is to ensure continuity of funding.
Short term Board to invest in collective investment of its investment strategy.
flexibility is achieved by overdraft facilities.
schemes managed by Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Company may, from time to time, enter Foreign Currency Risk Transactions in futures and options must be into derivative transactions to hedge specific The international nature of the Companys consistent with Inland Revenue guidelines so currency or interest rate risk.
No such investment activities gives rise to a currency as to ensure maintenance of the Companys transactions were undertaken in the year.
risk which is inherent in the performance of its Investment Trust status.
The Company has precisely defined guidelines overseas investments.
It is not the Companys to govern the purchase or writing of options on policy to hedge this risk on a continuing 25 Derivatives and Other individual shares.
No options were purchased basis, but the Company may from time to Financial Instruments or written in the year.
time match specific overseas investment with foreign currency borrowings.
The Company operates as an investment trust Trading in financial instruments is not within company in accordance with S842 of the the normal activities of an investment trust, The revenue account is subject to currency Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988. nor is it the Companys policy to trade in fluctuation arising on overseas income.
Transactions in financial Company does not hedge this currency risk.
The international nature of the Companys SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 49
