NOTES TO ACCOUNTS 1 Principal Accounting Policies ii Interest from fixed interest securities is f Taxation A summary of the principal accounting recognised on an accruals basis.
Fixed Deferred taxation is provided on all timing policies is set out in paragraphs a to h interest securities issued at a significant differences, calculated at the current tax below.
All have been applied consistently discount or premium are accounted for rate relevant to the benefit or liability.
throughout the current and preceding year.
on an effective yield basis.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it will be more likely than a Basis of Accounting iii Franked income is stated net of tax not that there will be taxable profits from The accounts are prepared under the credits.
which underlying timing differences can be historical cost convention, modified to deducted.
include the revaluation of fixed asset iv Unfranked investment income includes investments, and on the assumption that the taxes deducted at source.
g Foreign Currencies approval as an investment trust will Transactions involving foreign currencies continue to be granted.
v Interest receivable on deposits is are converted at the rate ruling at the time recognised on an accruals basis.
The accounts have been prepared in of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities in accordance with applicable UK vi If scrip is taken in lieu of dividends foreign currencies are translated at the accounting standards and with the in cash, the net amount of the cash closing rates of exchange at the balance Statement of Recommended Practice dividend declared is credited to the sheet date.
Any gain or loss arising from Financial Statements of Investment Trust revenue account.
a change in exchange rate subsequent to Companies issued in January 2003. the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in capital reserve d Expenses b Investments or revenue reserve as appropriate.
All expenses are accounted for on an Listed investments are shown at middle accruals basis.
Expenses are charged market value, or in the case of FTSE 100 h Capital Reserves through the revenue account except as constituents, at last traded prices issued i Capital Reserves Realised: follows: where they relate directly to the by the London Stock Exchange.
Gains and losses on realisation of acquisition or disposal of an investment, investments and realised exchange Listed investments include Open Ended in which case they are added to the cost differences of a capital nature are dealt Investment Companies OEICs authorised of the investment or deducted from the sale with in this reserve.
Purchases of the in the UK: these are valued at mid price proceeds and where they are connected Companys own shares for cancellation and are classified for valuation purposes with the maintenance or enhancement of are also funded from this reserve.
50% according to the principal geographical the value of investments, in which case of management fees, including related area of the underlying holdings.
they are charged 50:50 to the revenue VAT, and finance costs are allocated account and realised capital reserve.
to the realised capital reserve in Unlisted investments are shown at a accordance with the Companys valuation determined by the Directors objective of combining capital and based upon latest dealing prices, e Long Term Borrowings and Finance income growth.
stockbroker valuations, net asset values Costs and other information, as appropriate.
Long term borrowings are carried in the ii Capital Reserves Unrealised: balance sheet at the cumulative amount Unrealised appreciation represents the c Income of net proceeds after issue, plus accrued amount by which assets and liabilities i Income from equity investments is finance costs attributable to the stepped valued at market value differs from their brought into account on the date on interest debentures.
The finance costs of book value and is dealt with in this which the investments are quoted such borrowings are allocated 50:50 to reserve.
ex-dividend or, where no ex-dividend the revenue account and realised capital date is quoted, when the Companys reserve at a constant rate on the carrying right to receive payment is established.
Issue costs are written off at a constant rate over the life of the borrowings.
Gains and losses on the repurchase or early settlement of debt is wholly charged to capital.
