NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the offices of Baillie Gifford & Co, Calton Square, 1 Greenside Row, Edinburgh EH1 3AN, on Thursday, 30 June 2005 at 4.00 pm.
If you have any queries as to how to vote or how to attend the meeting, please call us on 0800 027 0133.
Baillie Gifford may record your call.
Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the ninety-sixth b the minimum price which may be By order of the Board Annual General Meeting of Scottish paid for a Share shall be 25p: Baillie Gifford & Co Mortgage Investment Trust PLC will be held c the maximum price exclusive of Managers and Secretaries within the Registered Office of the Company, expenses which may be paid for a 27 May 2005 Calton Square, 1 Greenside Row, Edinburgh Share shall be an amount equal to EH1 3AN, on Thursday, 30 June 2005, at 105% of the average of the middle 4.00 pm for the following purposes: market quotations as derived from Notes the Daily Official List of the London 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the Ordinary Business Stock Exchange for the Shares for meeting is entitled to appoint one or more To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the the 5 business days immediately proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote on following resolutions as Ordinary Resolutions: preceding the date of purchase: and his her behalf.
To approve the Accounts of the member of the Company.
A Form of Proxy d unless previously varied, revoked or Company for the year to 31 March for the use of members is enclosed and to be renewed by the Company in general 2005 with the Reports of the Directors valid must be lodged with the Registrar of the meeting, the authority hereby conferred and of the Auditors thereon.
Company not less than 48 hours before the shall expire at the conclusion of the 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration time set for the meeting.
Annual General Meeting of the Report for the year to 31 March 2005.
Company to be held in 2006 or 2 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated 3.
29 December 2006, whichever is the Securities Regulations 2001, the Company 4.
To re-elect Sir Donald MacKay as a earlier, save that the Company may, specifies that only those shareholders entered Director.
prior to such expiry, enter into a on the Register of Members of the Company as contract to purchase Shares under such 5.
To re-elect Mr GA Ball as a Director.
at 4.00 pm on 28 June 2005 or, in the event authority which will or might be 6.
To re-elect Mr JPHS Scott as a Director.
that the meeting is adjourned, on the Register completed or executed wholly or partly of Members 48 hours before the time of any 7.
To reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors.
after the expiration of such authority adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend 8.
To authorise the Directors to determine and may make a purchase of Shares or vote at the meeting in respect of the number the remuneration of the Auditors.
pursuant to any such contract.
of ordinary shares registered in their name at To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the that time.
Changes to the entries on the Register Special Business following resolution as a Special Resolution: of Members after 4.00 pm on 28 June 2005 To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, 9.
That, in substitution for any existing following resolutions as Ordinary Resolutions: in the Register of Members 48 hours before authority under section 166 of the 10.
That, the fees paid to, and benefits in the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be Companies Act 1985 the Act, but kind received by, the Chairman of the disregarded in determining the rights of without prejudice to the exercise of Board of Directors for his services in the any person to attend or vote at the meeting, any such authority prior to the date office of Director shall not, for the notwithstanding any provisions in any hereof, the Company be authorised, purposes of Article 90 of the Companys enactment, the Articles of Association of the in accordance with section 166 of the Articles of Association, exceed in Company or other instrument to the contrary.
Act, to make market purchases within aggregate 45,000 per annum.
the meaning of section 163 3 of the 3 Shareholders participating in the Baillie Gifford Act of ordinary shares of 25p each in 11.
That, the fees paid to, and benefits in Investment Trust Share Plan, Childrens Savings the capital of the Company Shares, kind received by, a Director for his Plan or the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust provided that: services in the office of Director shall not, ISA PEP who wish to vote and or attend the for the purposes of Article 90 of the a the maximum aggregate number of meeting must complete and return the enclosed Companys Articles of Association, Shares hereby authorised to be reply-paid Form of Direction.
exceed in aggregate 30,000 per purchased shall be 14.99% of the annum.
issued ordinary share capital on the 4 No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
date on which this resolution is passed: 50 ANNUAL REPORT 2005
