43 Financial Statements Accounting Policies 1 Basis of Accounting 4 Expenses and Interest Expenses and interest are accounted for on an accruals basis The financial statements have been prepared under the using the exchange rate applicable on payment where historical cost convention, modified to include the revaluation appropriate.
Expenses that directly relate to the acquisition or of fixed assets.
They assume the going concern basis of disposal of an investment are added to the cost of the accounting and that the Company will continue to have investment or deducted from the proceeds.
approval as an investment trust.
They have been drawn up in accordance with applicable accounting standards and with the The directors have determined to allocate annual bonus and Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Senior Management Equity Incentive Plan costs which relate to Investment Trust Companies the SORP.
the achievement of investment manager performance objectives and total stockholder return performance objectives against capital and those that relate to the achievement of job 2 Valuation of Fixed Assets performance objectives against revenue.
Listed investments are valued at market prices or middle market The expenses related to the redemption of the Company's prices as appropriate.
Unlisted investments and mineral rights Preference and Debenture stock have been allocated against are valued by the board on the basis of market prices, latest capital.
dealings, stockbrokers valuations, petroleum consultants valuations and accounting information as appropriate.
Foreign All other expenses are allocated against revenue.
assets and liabilities are valued using the middle rates of exchange ruling at the year end.
5 Taxation The external costs associated with the development and Deferred tax is recognised at the standard rate of corporation procurement of significant technology systems are capitalised tax, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and and stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
On the accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed out by completion of each project depreciation is charged so as to the balance sheet date.
Material deferred tax assets are write off the value of these assets over periods up to five years.
recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than Motor vehicles are held cost less accumulated depreciation, not that they will be recovered.
which is charged to write off the value of the vehicle over three years.
Because the Company intends each year to qualify as an investment trust under section 842 of the Income and 3 Income Corporation Taxes Act 1988, no provision is made for deferred taxation in respect of the capital gains that have been realised, Income from equity shares is brought into account on the or are expected in the future to be realised, on the sale of fixed ex-dividend date or, where no ex-dividend date is quoted, when asset investments.
the Companys right to receive payment is established.
Income includes any taxes deducted at source.
Fixed returns on 6 Reserves non-equity shares and debt securities are recognised on a time Gains and losses on the realisation of investments and foreign apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on the currency are accounted for in the realised capital reserve.
Where the Company has elected to receive its Increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held at dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash, the year end are accounted for in the unrealised capital reserve.
the amount of the cash dividend is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of 7 Pension Costs the cash dividend is recognised in capital reserves.
Employer contributions to pension arrangements for staff are Special dividends are treated as repayment of capital or as charged against revenue.
income depending on the facts of each particular case.
Contributions in respect of defined benefit provision are Foreign income is converted at the rate of exchange applicable calculated by reference to actuarial valuations carried out for on the appropriate date.
the Trustees at intervals of not more than three years, and represent a charge to cover the accruing liabilities on a continuing basis.
