Section 08 Carillion plc Further Information Annual Report and Accounts 2005 95 Shareholder Information Dividends Multiple accounts on the shareholder register Dividends are normally paid twice a year.
The proposed final dividend If you have received two or more sets of the documents concerning in respect of the year to 31 December 2005 will be payable on the Annual General Meeting this means that there is more than one 23 June 2006 to those shareholders on the register on 28 April 2006. account in your name on the shareholder register, perhaps because either your name or your address appear on each account in a slightly A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP will also be offered.
For security reasons, the Registrars will not amalgamate the accounts without your written consent, so if you would like any For those shareholders who prefer not to participate in the DRIP, multiple accounts combined into one account, please write to Lloyds arrangements can be made to pay your dividends automatically into TSB Registrars at the address given above.
your bank or building society account.
This service has a number of benefits: Shareview electronic communications www.
co. uk is a service offered by Lloyds TSB Registrars that there is no chance of the dividend cheque going missing in the post: enables you to check your holdings in many UK companies and helps the dividend payment is received more quickly, as the cash is paid you to organise your investments electronically.
You can register for this directly into your account on the payment date without the need to portfolio service which is easy to use, secure and free as long as you wait for the cheque to clear: and have access to the internet by logging on to www.
co. uk you will be helping Carillion to improve its efficiency by reducing and following a simple registration process.
printing and cheque clearing costs.
Electronic proxy appointments If you wish to register for this service please call Lloyds TSB Registrars For the AGM to be held on 10 May 2006, you may, if you wish, on the number detailed below to request a dividend mandate form.
register the appointment of a proxy electronically by logging on to the website www.
co. uk Results Half year to 30 June 2006: announced 6 September 2006 You will need your voting reference numbers the three 8-digit Full year to 31 December 2006: announced March 2007 numbers shown on your form of proxy.
Alternatively, if you have registered for a Shareview portfolio, log on to your portfolio at Shareholder enquiries www.
co. uk and click on Company Meetings.
Lloyds TSB Registrars maintain the register of members of the Company.
If you have any queries concerning your shareholding, Please note that any electronic communication that is found to or if any of your details change, please contact the Registrars: contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
Lloyds TSB Registrars ShareGift The Causeway ShareGift is a charity share donation scheme for shareholders, Worthing administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
It is especially West Sussex for those who may wish to dispose of a small parcel of shares BN99 6DA whose value makes it uneconomic to sell on a commission basis.
Further information can be obtained at www.
org or from Telephone 0870 600 3953 Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Textphone for shareholders with hearing difficulties 0870 600 3950 Share dealing service Carillion now offers its UK shareholders, Shareview Dealing, a telephone and internet share sale service operated by Lloyds TSB Registrars.
For telephone sales call 0870 850 0852 between 8.30am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet sales log on to www.
You will need your shareholder reference number as shown on your share certificate.
