206697 Report & Accounts Back 20 3 06 7:46 pm Page 81 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 25.
OTHER PAYABLES 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 Million Million Accruals 32.8 27.4 Miscellaneous 14.0 11.5 Unit linked funds 24.6 12.3 Total other payables 71.4 51.2 All other payable balances are considered current.
FINANCIAL & INSURANCE RISK The Group adopts a prudent approach to the management of financial risk, with a view to minimising, where practicable, its exposure to market, credit, liquidity and interest rate risks.
The Group similarly adopts a cautious approach to the management of insurance risk, with the adoption of a unit linked or reviewable premium approach to product design and the use of reinsurance to minimise solvency risk and profit volatility.
Since the majority of the Groups business is unit-linked, for which policyholders carry the financial risk, the risks relating to unit-linked investment are excluded from the assessment of risks affecting the Groups business, as are the risks associated with the minority interest holdings in the Groups unit trusts which are subject to consolidation.
However, an overall change in the market value of the unit-linked funds would affect the annual management charges accruing to the Group since these charges, which typically range between 0.75% and 1.5% pa, are based on the market value of funds under management.
In addition, a reduction in stock market levels would defer the receipt of tax relief on UK life business expenses and could reduce the volume of new business sales.
Shareholders funds are invested in AAA rated unitised money market funds and deposits with approved banks, in accordance with the SJPC Group Credit Policy, with a view to minimising credit and market risk.
Maximum counterparty limits set for each company within the Group and aggregate limits are also set at a Group level.
Non-linked liabilities are matched by fixed interest securities with minimum AA credit ratings: maximum counterparty limits are again set for each company within the Group and at an aggregate Group level.
All fixed interest securities held by the Group are fixed rate and the Group is therefore not subject to cash flow interest rate risk.
Fair value interest rate risk is not material since non-linked liabilities tend to move in line with the matching asset values.
Reinsurance risk is managed in accordance with the Groups Reinsurance Policy with credit ratings of potential reinsurers required to meet or exceed minimum specified levels.
Consideration is also given to size, risk concentrations exposures and ownership in the selection of reinsurers.
The Group also seeks to diversify its reinsurance credit risk through the use of a range of reinsurers.
The outstanding reinsurance balance in the long-term business fund LTBF predominantly reflects the reserve for reassurance resulting from the prudent valuation basis adopted by the Group and does not represent balances which are outstanding from reinsurers.
As such this does not create any credit exposure.
The remainder of the outstanding reinsurance balance reflects reserves that reassurers are holding on the Groups behalf and this does result in credit exposure.
The amount of this exposure relates primarily to one A-rated reassurer, as set out in the credit risks tables below.
The Group is actively seeking to minimise this concentration of credit risk.
