206697 Report & Accounts Back 20 3 06 7:46 pm Page 115 NOTES TO THE EUROPEAN EMBEDDED VALUE BASIS I.
BASIS OF PREPARATION The supplementary information on pages 112 to 121 shows the Groups results as measured on a European Embedded Value EEV basis.
This includes the results of the life, pension and investment business, including unit trust business, undertaken by the Group on a basis determined in accordance with the EEV Principles issued in May 2004 by the Chief Financial Officers Forum, a group of chief financial officers from 19 major European insurers.
The treatment of all other transactions and balances is unchanged from the primary financial statements on an IFRS basis.
The objectives of the EEV basis is to provide shareholders with more realistic information on the financial position and performance of the Group than that provided by the IFRS basis.
Under the EEV methodology, profit is recognised as it is earned over the life of the products within the covered business.
The embedded value of the covered business is the sum of the shareholders net worth in respect of the covered business and the present value of this projected profit stream.
The Group has replaced the Achieved Profits basis previously used in its supplementary financial statements with the EEV basis.
A restatement of the results for the year ended 31 December 2004 was issued on 8 December 2005 and these results have been included as the prior year comparatives in this supplementary information.
A copy of the restatement document can be obtained from the Groups website, www.
co. uk from 2005 Press Releases under Company Announcements.
METHODOLOGY AND ASSUMPTIONS a Covered business The covered business is the life, pension and investment business, including unit trust business, undertaken by the Group.
b Allowance for risk The allowance for risk in the shareholder cash flows is a key feature of the EEV Principles.
The EEV Principles set out three main areas of allowance for risk in the embedded value: The risk discount rate The allowance for the cost of financial options and guarantees The cost of holding both prudential reserves and any additional capital required The reported EEV allows for risk via a risk discount rate based on a bottom-up market-consistent approach, plus an appropriate additional margin for non-market risk.
The Group does not offer products that carry any significant financial guarantees or options.
c Deriving the risk discount rate A market-consistent embedded value for each product class has been calculated.
In principle, each cash flow is valued using the discount rate applied to such a cash flow in the capital markets.
However in practice, where cash flows are either independent or move linearly with market movement, it is possible to apply a simplified method known as the certainty equivalent approach.
Under this approach all assets are assumed to earn the risk free rate and are discounted using that risk free rate.
A market-consistent cost of holding the required capital has also been calculated.
As part of this approach, an appropriate adjustment has been made to reflect the fact that the value of tax relief on expenses does not move linearly with market movements.
Finally, an additional allowance for non-market risk has been made by increasing the discount rate by 0.8%.
