206697 Report & Accounts Front 20 3 06 7:40 pm Page 50 CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS 206697 Report & Accounts Front 20 3 06 7:40 pm Page 51 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ST. JAMESS PLACE CAPITAL PLC We have audited the group financial statements of St. Jamess Place Capital plc on pages 53 to 102 for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group Statement of Changes in Shareholders Equity and the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of St. Jamess Place Capital plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Report and Accounts and the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 34.
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the group financial statements, if the company has not kept proper records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Report and Accounts and consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
