206697 Report & Accounts Back 20 3 06 7:46 pm Page 2 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES St. Jamess Place Capital plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
Statement of Compliance The group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs.
The Group has applied all IFRSs and interpretations adopted by the EU including all amendments to existing standards that are not effective until later accounting periods, except for the following: Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures The effective date for both this amendment and the new standard is 1 January 2007, and it is likely that further disclosures will be required when the standards are applied.
The group financial statements also comply with the revised Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of British Insurers in December 2005 in so far as these requirements do not contradict IFRS requirements.
The Group is preparing its financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the EU for the first time and consequently has applied IFRS 1.
An explanation of how the transition to adopted IFRSs has affected the reported financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Group is provided in note 35.
Basis of Preparation The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand pounds.
They are prepared on a historical cost basis except for assets classified as investment property, investments and currency forwards, which are held at fair value.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, assets and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgments about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Judgment made by management in the application of IFRSs that have significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 2.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements and in preparing the opening IFRS balance sheet as at 1 January 2004 for the purpose of transition to IFRS.
