206697 Report & Accounts Back 20 3 06 7:46 pm Page 107 NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation St Jamess Place Capital plc the Company is a limited liability company incorporated in England and Wales and whose shares are publicly traded.
The Company offers a range of insurance, investment and other wealth management services through its subsidiaries, which are principally incorporated in the UK and Ireland.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and under the historical cost convention.
The Company has elected to continue to prepare the parent financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
In publishing the parent company financial statements, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption in Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form part of these financial statements.
All accounting policies have been reviewed for appropriateness in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard FRS 18 Accounting Policies.
In accordance with FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements, the company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that this is provided in its consolidated financial statements, which are publicly available.
Accounting policy changes Events after the Balance Sheet Date FRS 21 Events after the Balance Sheet Date has been adopted for the year ended 31 December 2005.
This is in alignment with International Accounting Standard IAS 10 Events after the Balance Sheet Date that has been adopted in the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005.
The impact of this change in accounting policy is that the proposed final dividend of 8.6 million for the year ending 31 December 2005 has not been recognised in the accounts.
The 2004 comparatives have been restated to show a reduction in other creditors of 7.0 million and a corresponding increase in retained profits.
If FRS 21 had not been adopted in the accounts, retained profit for the year ending 31 December would have decreased by 8.6 million.
Financial Instruments FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Measurement have been adopted for the year ended 31 December 2005.
These align the Company accounting with the requirements of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement that have been adopted in the Group consolidated financial statements.
The adoption of these standards has resulted in additional disclosure.
Significant accounting policies a Investment return Investment return comprises dividends from subsidiaries, which are accounted for when received.
b Taxation Taxation is based on profits and income for the period as determined in accordance with the relevant tax legislation, together with adjustments to provisions for prior periods.
c Investment in Subsidiaries Investment in subsidiaries are carried at cost.
