206697 Report & Accounts Back 20 3 06 7:46 pm Page 95 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 34.
PARENT COMPANY The ultimate parent company of SJPC is HBOS plc, a company registered in Scotland.
HBOS plc is the parent of the largest group in which the results of the Company are consolidated.
Copies of the consolidation accounts of HBOS plc may be obtained from The Mound, Edinburgh EH1 1YZ.
The immediate parent company is HBOS Insurance and Investment Group Limited, a company registered in England and Wales.
EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS As stated in note 1, these are the Groups first financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS.
The accounting policies set out in note 1 have been applied in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005, the comparative information presented in these financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004 and in the preparation of the opening IFRS balance at 1 January 2004, the Groups date of transition to IFRSs.
IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards does allow a number of exemptions or elections on adoption of IFRS for the first time, and the Group has taken advantage of the following provisions: The Group has elected not to apply the provisions of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment to options and equity instruments granted on or before 7 November 2002 or to equity instruments that were granted after 7 November 2002 that had vested before 1 January 2005.
The Group has also elected not to apply the provisions of IFRS 3 Business Combinations prior to the date of transition, and no adjustments have therefore been made for business combinations prior to 1 January 2004.
The Group has elected to restate owner occupied property at fair value at 1 January 2004 and to treat this fair value as the deemed cost at that date.
The Group has not taken advantage of the exemption from the requirement to restate comparative information in the first year of adoption of IFRS for IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts.
In preparing its opening IFRS balance sheet the Group has adjusted amounts previously reported in its financial statements prepared in accordance with its former basis of accounting, UK GAAP.
An explanation of how the transition from UK GAAP to IFRSs has affected the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows is set out in the following tables and the accompanying commentary.
This transition statement differs from that initially published by the Group on 26 July 2005 principally as a result of the further refinement of the Groups approach to the analysis of contracts between investment and insurance and the treatment of tax within the Groups UK unit linked funds.
The restated profit after tax and net assets are unaffected.
