206697 Report & Accounts Back 20 3 06 7:46 pm Page 65 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 2.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES The primary area in which the Group has applied judgement in applying accounting policies lies in the classification and unbundling of contracts between insurance and investment business.
Contracts with a significant degree of insurance risk are treated as insurance: pension contracts in general have been treated as investment contracts and, where they contain a significant degree of insurance risk, they have been unbundled.
All other contracts are treated as investment contracts.
The Group has also elected to treat all assets backing linked and non unit-linked contracts as fair value through profit or loss although some of the assets in question may ultimately be held to maturity.
The principal areas in which the Group applies accounting estimates and assumptions are in deciding the amount of management expenses that are treated as acquisition expenses, the amortisation of deferred acquisition costs and deferred income, providing for long-term insurance business and in determining the fair value and amortisation of acquired in-force business.
Estimates are also applied in determining the recoverability of deferred acquisition costs and the acquired value of in-force business.
Certain management expenses vary with the level of sales and have been treated as acquisition costs.
Each line of costs has been reviewed and its variability to sales volumes estimated on the basis of the level of costs that would be incurred if sales ceased.
Deferred acquisition costs and deferred income are amortised on a straight-line basis over the average lifetime of the underlying investment contracts.
The average lifetime of the contracts has been estimated from the experienced termination rates and the average age of clients at inception and maturity.
There have been no new business combinations during the year.
The acquired value of the in-force business has been amortised on a basis that reflects the expected profit stream arising from the business acquired at the date of acquisition.
This profit stream was estimated from the experienced termination rates, expenses of management and age of the clients under the individual contracts as well as global estimates of investment growth, based on recent experience at the date of acquisition.
Deferred acquisition costs and acquired value of in-force business relating to insurance and investment contracts are tested annually for recoverability by reference to expected future income levels.
The assumptions used in the calculation of insurance business liabilities that have the greatest effect on the income statement of the Group are the assumed rate of investment return, the expenses assumed and the mortality and morbidity tables used for the calculation of non-linked insurance liabilities.
The valuation discount rate for non-linked business was set at 3.0% at 31 December 2005 3.0% as at 31 December 2004.
This rate is based on the regulatory maximum allowable rate rounded to the lower 0.1%.
The expenses assumed for the insurance business are based on an investigation of the expenses incurred in respect of each line of business.
They are assumed to increase with inflation each year.
The inflation rate assumed at 31 December 2005 is between 2.9% and 4.0% depending on the territory of the contract between 2.9% and 4.0% as at 31 December 2004.
Mortality costs are determined following a comparison of market data with actual experience.
The rates used are based on recognised industry tables, suitably adjusted to reflect this comparison.
The rates used in the valuation were between 60% and 242% of TM TF92.
Morbidity rates were based on those charged by our reassurers for recent new business.
Estimates are also applied in determining the level of deferred tax asset on unrelieved expenses and other provisions these are set out in notes 12 and 20 respectively.
