com 69 Notes to the Accounts 1.
Accounting Policies Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Statement of compliance Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction The Group financial statements consolidate those of the provides evidence of impairment of the asset transferred.
Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and equity account the Groups interest in associates Associates and proportionately consolidate interests in jointly controlled Associates are all entities over which the Group has entities.
The parent company financial statements present significant inuence but not control, generally accompanying information about the Company as a separate entity and not a shareholding of between 20 per cent and 50 per cent of about its group.
Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially Both the parent company financial statements and the Group recognised at cost.
financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting The Groups investment in associates includes goodwill net Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs.
In publishing of any accumulated impairment loss identied on acquisition.
the parent company financial statements here together with the The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits Group financial statements, the Company has taken advantage of or losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of the exemption in s230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
its individual income statement and related notes that form a part The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against of these approved financial statements.
the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share Both the Group and the Company are preparing their financial of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the statements in accordance with adopted IFRSs for the first time associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the and consequently both have applied IFRS 1.
An explanation of Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred how the transition to adopted IFRSs has affected the reported obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its Group and Company is provided in note 55.
The Group and the associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest Company have taken advantage of the transitional arrangements in the associates.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless of IFRSs not to restate corresponding comparative amounts in the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the accordance with IAS 32 and 39.
These Standards were adopted asset transferred.
Adjustments required to adopt IAS 32 and 39 are set out in note 55.
Joint Ventures Interests in jointly controlled entities are recognised using The Group has adopted the Amendment to IAS 39 Financial proportionate consolidation whereby the Groups share of Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: The Fair Value the joint ventures assets, liabilities, income and expenses Option and the Amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits: are combined line by line with similar items in the Groups Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group Plans and Disclosures financial statements.
with effect from 1 January 2005, ahead of their effective dates.
Foreign currency translation Basis of preparation Both the parent company financial statements and the The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Group financial statements are presented in US dollars, adopted IFRSs requires the use of certain critical accounting which is the Groups functional and presentation currency.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Companys accounting policies.
Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from financial statements and in preparing an opening IFRS balance the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at sheet at 1 January 2004 for the purposes of the transition to year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities adopted IFRSs.
denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income Consolidation statement.
Non-monetary transactions are translated at historical Subsidiaries exchange rates.
Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities Group companies over which the Group has the power to directly or indirectly The results and financial position of all the Group entities govern the financial and operating policies, generally that have a functional currency different from the presentation accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the currency are as follows: voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
translated at the closing rate at the balance sheet date: The purchase method of accounting is used to account for income and expenses for each income statement are the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an translated at average exchange rates or at rates on the acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, date of the transaction where exchange rates fluctuate equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed significantly: and at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired are fair valued at the component of equity.
acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
70 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 1.
Accounting Policies continued charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of When an operating lease is terminated before the lease period borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges has expired, any payment required to be made to the lessor by of such investments, are taken to shareholders equity.
Such way of penalty is recognised as an expense in the period in which exchange differences arising since 1 January 2004 have been termination takes place.
separately identified within equity and when a foreign operation Where a Group company is the lessor is sold, they are recognised in the income statement as part of When assets are held subject to a finance lease, the present the gain or loss on disposal.
value of the lease payments is recognised as a receivable.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition The difference between the gross receivable and the present of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign value of the receivable is recognised as unearned finance income.
entity and translated at the closing rate.
Lease income is recognised over the term of the lease using the net investment method before tax, which reects a constant Intangible assets periodic rate of return ignoring tax and cash flows.
Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition Cash and cash equivalents over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identiable For the purposes of the cash ow statement, cash and cash assets of the acquired subsidiary associate at the date of equivalents comprise balances with less than three months acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included maturity from the date of acquisition, including: cash and in intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates balances at central banks unless restricted, treasury bills and is included in interests in associates.
Goodwill is tested annually other eligible bills, loans and advances to banks, and short-term for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment government securities.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill is Provisions allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose Provisions for restructuring costs and legal claims are recognised of impairment testing.
when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely than not that an outow of Computer software resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the has been reliably estimated.
basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specic software.
These costs are amortised on the basis of Employee benets the expected useful lives three to five years.
Costs associated Pension obligations with developing or maintaining computer software programs The Group operates a number of pension and other postare recognised as an expense as incurred.
retirement benefit plans around the world, including defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans.
Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings comprise mainly branches and offices.
All For dened contribution plans, the Group pays contributions property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated to publicly or privately administered pension plans on a depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditure mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or are recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when For defined benefit plans, the liability recognised in the balance it is probable that future economic benets associated with the sheet is the present value of the dened benefit obligation at item will ow to the Group and the cost of the item can be the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged dened benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent to the income statement during the financial period in which they actuaries using the projected unit method.
The present value of are incurred.
the dened benefit obligation is determined by discounting the Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation on other assets is estimated future cash outows using an interest rate equal to calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to the yield on high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated their residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows: in the currency in which the benets will be paid, and that have a term to maturity approximating to the term of the related Buildings up to 50 years pension liability.
Leasehold improvements life of lease, up to 50 years Actuarial gains and losses that arise are recognised in Equipment and motor vehicles 3 to 15 years shareholders equity and presented in the statement of recognised income and expense in the period they arise.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, Past service costs are recognised immediately to the extent and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
that benefits are vested and are otherwise recognised over the Gains and losses on disposals are included in the income statement.
average period until benefits are vested on a straight-line basis.
Current service costs and any past service costs together with Leases the expected return on plan assets less the effect of the Where a Group company is the lessee unwinding of the discount on plan liabilities are charged to The leases entered into by the Group are primarily operating operating expenses.
The total payments made under operating leases are www.
Accounting Policies continued Share capital Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares Share-based compensation or options or to the acquisition of a business are shown in equity The Group operates equity-settled and cash-settled share-based as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in equity in the as an expense.
For equity-settled awards, the total amount to be period in which they are declared.
expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to Where the Company or other members of the consolidated the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any Group purchases the Companys equity share capital, the non-market vesting conditions for example, profitability and consideration paid is deducted from total shareholders equity as growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in treasury shares until they are cancelled.
Where such shares are assumptions about the number of options that are expected to subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the Group is included in shareholders equity.
revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact of the revision Fiduciary activities of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a The Group commonly acts as trustees and in other duciary corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting capacities that result in the holding or placing of assets on period.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable behalf of individuals, trusts, retirement benefit plans and other transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value institutions.
These assets and income arising thereon are and share premium when the options are exercised.
excluded from these financial statements, as they are not assets of the Group.
Cash-settled awards are revalued at each balance sheet date with any changes in fair value charged or credited to staff costs Financial assets and liabilities excluding derivatives in the income statement.
From 01.01.04 to 31.12.04 Securities, including equity shares and treasury bills, which are Deferred tax intended for use on a continuing basis in the Groups activities Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on are classified as investment securities.
They include portfolios temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets of securities held in countries where the Group is required to and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial maintain a stock of liquid assets.
Investment securities are stated statements.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates at cost less any provision for permanent diminution in value.
The and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the cost of dated investment securities is adjusted to reflect the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related amortisation of accretion of premiums and discounts on deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax acquisition on a straight-line basis over the residual period liability is settled.
The amortisation and accretion of premiums and Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that discounts are included in interest income.
future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary Securities other than investment securities are classified as differences can be utilised.
trading securities and are held at market value.
Where the market Income tax payable on profits, based on the applicable tax law value of such securities is higher than cost, the original cost is not in each jurisdiction, is recognised as an expense in the period disclosed as its determination is not practicable.
The tax effects of income tax losses From 01.01.05 available for carry forward are recognised as an asset when The Group classies its financial assets in the following it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against categories: financial assets held at fair value through profit or which these losses can be utilised.
loss: loans and receivables: held-to-maturity investments: and Deferred tax related to items which are charged or credited available-for-sale financial assets.
Financial liabilities are classified directly to equity, is credited or charged directly to equity and as either at fair value through profit or loss, or at amortised cost.
is subsequently recognised in the income statement together Management determines the classication of its financial assets with the deferred gain or loss.
and liabilities at initial recognition.
Borrowings a Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, being their profit or loss issue proceeds fair value of consideration received net of This category has two sub-categories: financial assets and transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated liabilities held for trading, and those designated at fair value at amortised cost: any difference between proceeds net of through profit or loss at inception.
A financial asset or liability is transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the classied in this category if acquired principally for the purpose income statement over the period of the borrowings using the of selling in the short term or if so designated by management.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Preference shares, which carry a mandatory coupon, or are redeemable on a specic date or at the option of the shareholder, Financial assets and liabilities may be designated at fair value are classied as financial liabilities and are presented in other through profit or loss when: borrowed funds.
The dividends on these preference shares are the designation eliminates or significantly reduces a recognised in the income statement as interest expense on an measurement or recognition inconsistency that would amortised cost basis using the effective interest method.
otherwise arise from measuring assets or liabilities on If the Group purchases its own debt, it is removed from a different basis, or the balance sheet, and the difference between the carrying a group of financial assets and or liabilities are managed amount of a liability and the consideration paid is included and its performance evaluated on a fair value basis, or in other income.
assets or liabilities include embedded derivatives and such derivatives are not recognised separately.
72 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 1.
Accounting Policies continued specific provisioning is not appropriate.
The amount of the general provision reflects past experience and judgements about b Loans and receivables current conditions in particular locations or business sectors.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in Provisions are made against cross border exposures where an active market.
a country may experience or has experienced external liquidity problems and doubts exist as to whether full recovery will c Held-to-maturity be achieved.
Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments and xed maturities that Provisions are applied to write off advances, in part or in the Groups management has the positive intention and ability to whole, when they are considered wholly or partly irrecoverable.
Were the Group to sell other than an insignicant Interest on loans and advances is accrued to income until amount of held-to-maturity assets, the entire category would such time as reasonable doubt exists about its collectability: be tainted and reclassied as available-for-sale.
thereafter, and until all or part of the loan is written off, interest d Available-for-sale continues to accrue on customers accounts, but is not included Available-for-sale investments are those intended to be held for in income.
Such suspended interest is deducted from loans and an indefinite period of time, which may be sold in response to advances on the balance sheet.
needs for liquidity or changes in interest rates, exchange rates From 01.01.05 or equity prices.
Assets carried at amortised cost Purchases and sales of financial assets and liabilities at fair The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there value through profit or loss, financial assets held-to-maturity is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial and available-for-sale are initially recognised on trade-date the assets is impaired.
A financial asset or a group of financial assets date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
is impaired and impairment losses are incurred if, and only if, Loans are recognised when cash is advanced to the borrowers.
there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus directly more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset attributable transaction costs for all financial assets not carried a loss event and that loss event or events has an impact on at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial assets are the estimated future cash ows of the financial asset or group derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
financial assets have expired or where the Group has transferred The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities impairment exists individually for financial assets that are are derecognised when they are extinguished.
individually significant, and individually or collectively for financial Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets and assets that are not individually significant.
If the Group determines liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually carried at fair value.
Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, it includes investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective the asset in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk interest method.
characteristics and collectively assesses them for impairment.
Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss category are not included in a collective assessment of impairment.
are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and available-for-sale financial assets other than foreign exchange receivables or held-to-maturity investments carried at amortised gains and losses from monetary items are recognised directly cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as in equity, until the financial asset is derecognised or impaired the difference between the assets carrying amount and the at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in present value of estimated future cash ows excluding future equity is recognised in profit or loss.
However, interest calculated credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the using the effective interest method is recognised in the income financial assets original effective interest rate.
Dividends on available-for-sale equity instruments are amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance recognised in the income statement when the entitys right to account and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income receive payment is established.
If a loan or held-to-maturity investment has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any impairment loss The fair values of quoted investments in active markets are based is the current effective interest rate determined under the on current bid prices.
If the market for a financial asset is not contract.
As a practical expedient, the Group may measure active and for unlisted securities, the Group establishes fair value impairment on the basis of an instruments fair value using an by using valuation techniques.
These include the use of recent observable market price.
arms length transactions, discounted cash ow analysis, option pricing models and other valuation techniques commonly used The calculation of the present value of the estimated future by market participants.
cash ows of a collateralised financial asset reects the cash ows that may result from foreclosure less costs for obtaining Impairment of financial assets and selling the collateral, whether or not foreclosure is probable.
From 01.01.04 to 31.12.04 For the purposes of a collective evaluation of impairment, Provisions for impairment are held in respect of loans and financial assets are grouped on the basis of similar credit risk advances, including cross border exposures.
The provisions characteristics i. e. on the basis of the Groups grading process comprise two elements specific and general.
that considers asset type, industry, geographical location, Provisions against loans and advances are based on an appraisal collateral type, past-due status and other relevant factors.
Specific provisions are made where the Those characteristics are relevant to the estimation of future repayment of identified loans is in doubt and reflect an estimate cash ows for groups of such assets by being indicative of of the amount of loss expected.
The general provision is for the the debtors ability to pay all amounts due according to the inherent risk of losses which, although they have not been contractual terms of the assets being evaluated.
separately identified, are known from experience to be present in any loan portfolio and to other material uncertainties where www.
Accounting Policies continued host contract is not carried at fair value through profit or loss.
These embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with Future cash ows in a group of financial assets that are changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
collectively evaluated for impairment are estimated on the basis of the historical loss experience for assets with credit risk The method of recognising the resulting fair value gain or loss characteristics similar to those in the Group.
Historical loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging experience is adjusted on the basis of current observable data instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The to reect the effects of current conditions that did not affect the Group designates certain derivatives as either: 1 hedges of the period on which the historical loss experience is based and to fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or rm commitments remove the effects of conditions in the historical period that do fair value hedge : or, 2 hedges of highly probable future cash not exist currently.
ows attributable to a recognised asset or liability, or a forecasted transaction cash ow hedge.
Hedge accounting is used for To the extent a loan is uncollectable, it is written off against derivatives designated in this way provided certain criteria are met.
the related provision for loan impairment.
Such loans are written off after all the necessary procedures have been completed The Group documents, at the inception of the transaction, the and the amount of the loss has been determined.
Subsequent relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as recoveries of amounts previously written off decrease the amount well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking of the provision for loan impairment in the income statement.
The Group also documents its If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions event occurring after the impairment was recognised such are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash as an improvement in the debtors credit rating, the previously ows of hedged items.
recognised impairment loss is reversed by adjusting the a Fair value hedge allowance account.
The amount of the reversal is recognised Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and in the income statement.
qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, Available-for-sale assets together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset A significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
If the hedge no below its cost is considered in determining whether the assets longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the effective financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference interest method is used is amortised to profit or loss over the between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any period to maturity.
impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised b Cash flow hedge in profit or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income are designated and qualify as cash ow hedges are recognised in statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is income statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of recognised immediately in the income statement.
a debt instrument classied as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the income after the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss, the statement in the periods in which the hedged item will affect impairment loss is reversed through the income statement.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge From 01.01.04 to 31.12.04 no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative Off-balance sheet financial instruments are valued with reference gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is to market prices and the resultant profit or loss is included in the recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised profit and loss account, except where the position in the in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer instrument has been designated as a hedge when the profit expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported or loss resulting from marking them to market is dealt with in in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
the same way as the accounting treatment applied to the c Net investment hedge position hedged.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted Trading positions are valued at market rates, and non-trading for similarly to cash ow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging positions are valued on the same basis as the items being instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is hedged.
Netting occurs where transactions with the same recognised in the translation reserve: the gain or loss relating to counterparty meet the following requirements.
The balances must the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income be determinable and in freely convertible currencies, the Standard statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in Chartered entity can insist on net settlement, and this ability is the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting From 01.01.05 Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date on accounting.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently that does not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised remeasured at their fair value.
Fair values are obtained from immediately in the income statement.
quoted market prices in active markets, including recent market transactions, and valuation techniques, including discounted cash ow models and options pricing models, as appropriate.
All derivatives are carried as assets when fair value is positive and as liabilities when fair value is negative.
Certain derivatives embedded in other financial instruments, such as the conversion option in a convertible bond, are treated as separate derivatives when their economic characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of the host contract and the 74 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 1.
Accounting Policies continued the expected life of the financial instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount of the financial asset Offsetting financial instruments or financial liability.
When calculating the effective interest rate, From 01.01.04 to 31.12.04 the Group estimates cash ows considering all contractual terms Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount of the financial instrument for example, prepayment options but reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable does not consider future credit losses.
The calculation includes all right to offset the recognised amounts.
fees and points paid or received between parties to the contract From 01.01.05 that are an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount costs and all other premiums or discounts.
reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable Once a financial asset or a group of similar financial assets has right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention been written down as a result of an impairment loss, interest to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the income is recognised using the rate of interest used to discount liability simultaneously.
the future cash ows for the purpose of measuring the Sale and repurchase agreements impairment loss.
Securities sold subject to repurchase agreements repos Fees and commissions remain on the balance sheet: the counterparty liability is included From 01.01.04 to 31.12.04 in amounts due to other banks, deposits from banks, other Fees and commissions which represent a payment for a service deposits or deposits due to customers, as appropriate.
Securities provided in setting up a transaction, are credited to the profit purchased under agreements to resell reverse repos are and loss account once they are receivable.
recorded as loans and advances to other banks or customers, as appropriate.
The difference between sale and repurchase price is Fees and commissions which in substance amount to an treated as interest and accrued over the life of the agreements additional interest charge, are recognised over the life of the using the effective interest method.
underlying transaction on a level yield basis.
Securities lent to counterparties are also retained in the financial From 01.01.05 statements.
Securities borrowed are not recognised in the Fees and commissions are generally recognised on an accrual financial statements, unless these are sold to third parties, in basis when the service has been provided.
Loan syndication which case the purchase and sale are recorded with the gain fees are recognised as revenue when the syndication has been or loss included in trading income.
completed and the Group retained no part of the loan package for itself or retained a part at the same effective interest rate for Interest income and expense the other participants.
Portfolio and other management advisory From 01.01.05 and service fees are recognised based on the applicable service Interest income and expense is recognised in the income contracts, usually on a time-apportionate basis.
statement using the effective interest method.
Hyperinflation The effective interest method is a method of calculating the Where the Group has operations in countries that experience amortised cost of a financial asset or a financial liability and hyperinflation, the financial statements are restated for changes of allocating the interest income or interest expense over the in general purchasing power of the local currency.
The effective interest rate is the rate that discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts through www.
Segmental Information The Group is organised on a worldwide basis into two main business segments: Wholesale Banking and Consumer Banking.
The types of products and services within these segments are set out in the Financial Review.
The Groups secondary reporting format comprises geographical segments.
76 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 2.
Segmental Information continued By geographic segment The Group manages its business segments on a global basis.
The operations are based in nine main geographical areas.
The UK is the home country of the parent.
Following the acquisition of SC First Bank SCFB, formerly Korea First Bank, a new geographical area of Korea has been included.
Comparative amounts have been restated.
Total assets employed includes intra-group items of $19,960 million and excludes deferred tax assets of $498 million.
Total assets employed includes intra-group items of $28,801 million, $7,563 million of derivative balances which are netted on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and excludes deferred tax assets of $318 million.
78 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 2.
Segmental Information continued Following the acquisition of SCFB on 15 April 2005, Korea has In 2005 other impairment includes provision made in respect of been identified as a separately reportable geographic segment.
In 2004 other operating income includes In 2004, the existing Korean business was included in Other Asia profits and losses arising from corporate decisions to dispose Pacific.
Accordingly, this segment has been restated to present of investments in KorAm Bank $95 million in Americas, UK & Korea separately.
The UAE segment has been included within Group Head Office and Bank of China Hong Kong $36 million Middle East and Other S Asia.
in Hong Kong and the premium on repurchase of surplus subordinated debt $23 million in India.
Costs include $18 million Apart from SCFB, Group central expenses have been distributed related to the incorporation of the Hong Kong business Hong between segments in proportion to their direct costs and the Kong and the $5 million donation to the Tsunami relief effort benefit of the Groups capital has been distributed between segments in proportion to their risk weighted assets.
In SCFB, Malaysia, India, Other APR and MESA.
Other impairment allocations have been based on an estimate of direct includes goodwill impairment of $67 million.
These decisions management costs of integration as a transitional measure.
resulted in net non-recurring gains of $18 million.
They are included in the Geographic segmental information, but are not Assets held at the centre have been distributed between allocated to businesses in the Business segmental information.
geographic segments in proportion to their total assets employed.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property and Total risk weighted assets and contingents include $2,002 million equipment note 25 and intangibles note 24 including additions 31 December 2004: $2,678 million of balances which are netted resulting from acquisitions.
Interest Income 2005 2004 $million $million Balances at central banks 8 3 Treasury bills 469 254 Loans and advances to banks 851 491 Loans and advances to customers 6,104 3,563 Listed debt securities 525 428 Unlisted debt securities 745 573 Accrued on impaired assets discount unwind 48 8,750 5,312 Total interest income from financial instruments held at amortised cost in 2005 is $6,313 million.
Interest Expense 2005 2004 $million $million Deposits by banks 643 385 Customer accounts: Current and demand accounts 597 239 Savings deposits 97 68 Time deposits 1,852 895 Debt securities in issue 703 178 Subordinated loan capital and other borrowed funds: Wholly repayable within five years 158 82 Other 365 283 4,415 2,130 Total interest expense on financial instruments held at amortised cost in 2005 is $4,262 million.
Net Trading Income 2005 2004 $million $million Gains less losses on foreign currency 613 494 Gains less losses on trading securities 19 20 Other trading profits 175 137 769 651 6.
Other Operating Income 2005 2004 $million $million Other operating income includes: Gains less losses on disposal of investment securities 164 Gains less losses on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 107 Dividend income 62 11 Premium paid on repurchase of subordinated debt 23 7.
Operating Expenses 2005 2004 $million $million Staff costs: Wages and salaries 1,653 1,195 Social security costs 48 32 Other pension costs note 35 131 92 Other staff costs 313 240 2,145 1,559 Premises and equipment expenses: Rental of premises 183 150 Other premises and equipment costs 167 159 Rental of computers and equipment 13 12 363 321 General administrative expenses 1,020 731 Wages and salaries include share based expenses see note 40.
The Company employed nil staff at 31 December 2005 31 December 2004: nil.
It incurred costs of $3 million 2004: $2 million.
Directors emoluments Details of directors pay and benefits and interests in shares are disclosed in the directors remuneration report on pages 49 to 61.
Transactions with directors, officers and other related parties are disclosed in the related parties note 51 on page 126.
80 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 7.
Operating Expenses continued Other administrative expenses include $12.4 million 2004: $8.3 million in respect of auditors remuneration for the Group, of which $0.4 million 2004: $0.4 million relates to the Company.
The auditors of the Company, KPMG Audit Plc and their associated firms, also received $3.1 million 2004: $5.9 million in respect of non-audit services provided to the Group.
Details of non-audit services are reflected below: 2005 2004 $million $million Non-audit fees paid to KPMG Audit Plc and its associated firms: Regulatory reviews 0.3 1.7 Accounting reviews advisory 1.1 0.3 Capital raising activities 0.2 0.2 Assistance with business acquisitions and disposals 0.4 1.1 Tax advisory and compliance 0.8 1.2 Other assistance 0.3 1.4 3.1 5.9 In addition to the above services, the Groups auditors acted as auditor to the Standard Chartered Pension Fund, a UK defined contribution staff pension plan and, since the date of acquisition, the SC First Bank pension plans.
The appointment of auditors to the Groups pension schemes and the fees paid in respect of these audits are agreed by the trustees of each scheme, who act independently from the management of the Group.
The aggregate fees paid to the Groups auditor for audit services to the pension schemes during the year were $0.2 million 2004: $0.2 million.
Depreciation and Amortisation 2005 2004 $million $million Premises 53 47 Equipment 73 68 Intangibles: Software 125 123 Acquired on business combinations 32 283 238 9.
Other Impairment 2005 2004 $million $million Goodwill 2 67 Other 48 1 50 68 Under IFRS, goodwill is not amortised.
Instead, annual impairment assessments are made.
On transition to IFRS on 1 January 2004, goodwill amortisation of $181 million recorded under UK GAAP in 2004 was reversed and an impairment charge of $67 million was recorded in its place to write down goodwill on certain investments to $nil see note 24.
Other impairment mainly comprises provision for exposures in Zimbabwe.
Taxation Analysis of taxation charge in the year: 2005 2004 $million $million The charge for taxation based upon the profits for the year comprises: United Kingdom corporation tax at 30% 31 December 2004: 30% : Current tax on income for the year 326 407 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 4 18 Double taxation relief 308 357 Foreign tax: Current tax on income for the year 671 559 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 18 13 Total current tax 675 614 Deferred tax: Origination reversal of temporary differences 35 16 Tax on profits on ordinary activities 710 630 Effective tax rate 26.5% 28.0% Overseas taxation includes taxation on Hong Kong profits of $131 million 31 December 2004: $92 million provided at a rate of 17.5 per cent 31 December 2004: 17.5 per cent on the profits assessable in Hong Kong.
The taxation charge for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the United Kingdom, 30 per cent.
The differences are explained below: 2005 2004 $million $million Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 2,681 2,251 Tax at 30 per cent 2004: 30 per cent 804 675 Effects of: Tax free income 16 Lower taxes on overseas earnings 111 12 One-off adjustments on Korea branch transfer 12 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous periods 16 3 Capital gains against which losses have been applied 36 Other items 26 16 Total current taxation charge 675 614 Tax recognised directly in equity: 2005 2004 $million $million Current tax credit on instruments reclassified from debt to equity 20 20 Deferred tax credit on available-for-sale investments 49 Deferred tax credit on pensions 51 46 Deferred tax credit on share based awards 86 Deferred tax on other items 29 Total deferred tax recognised in equity 215 46 Total tax recognised in equity 235 66 82 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 11.
Dividends 2005 2004 Cents Cents Ordinary Equity Shares per share $million per share $million Final dividend declared and paid during the period 40.44 524 36.49 429 Interim dividends declared and paid during the period 18.94 248 17.06 201 59.38 772 53.55 630 Dividends are recorded in the period in which they are declared.
Accordingly, the final dividends set out above relate to the respective prior years.
The 2005 final dividend of 45.06 cents per share $595 million will be paid in either sterling, Hong Kong dollars or US dollars on 12 May 2006 to shareholders on the UK register of members at the close of business in the UK on 10 March 2006 and to shareholders on the Hong Kong branch register of members at the opening of business in Hong Kong 9:00am Hong Kong time on 10 March 2006.
It is intended that shareholders will be able to elect to receive shares credited as fully paid instead of all or part of the final cash dividend.
Details of the dividend will be sent to shareholders on or around 27 March 2006.
2005 2004 Preference Shares $million $million 3 Non-cumulative irredeemable preference shares: 7 8 per cent preference shares of 1 each 14 14 1 8 4 per cent preference shares of 1 each 15 15 Non-cumulative redeemable preference shares: 8.9 per cent preference shares of $5 each 29 29 Dividends on these preference shares are treated as interest expense in 2005 following adoption of IAS 32.
Earnings Per Ordinary Share 2005 2004 Weighted Per Weighted Per average number share average number share Profit of shares amount Profit of shares amount $million 000 cents $million 000 cents Basic earnings per ordinary share 1,917 1,290,916 148.5 1,520 1,172,921 129.6 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: Convertible bonds 7 10,346 23 34,488 Options 8,678 3,444 Diluted earnings per share 1,924 1,309,940 146.9 1,543 1,210,853 127.4 Normalised earnings per ordinary share The Group measures earnings per share on a normalised basis.
This differs from earnings defined in IAS 33 Earnings per share.
The table below provides a reconciliation: 2005 2004 $million $million Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 1,917 1,520 Profit on sale of shares in KorAm 95 Bank of China 36 Premium and costs paid on repurchase of subordinated debt 23 Costs of Hong Kong incorporation 18 Tsunami donation 5 Goodwill impairment 67 Total one-off items 18 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations 32 Profit less losses on disposal of investment securities held at cost 33 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 4 Profit on disposal of subsidiary undertakings 4 Other impairment 42 1 Tax on normalised items 7 Normalised earnings 1,984 1,462 Normalised earnings per ordinary share 153.7c 124.6c www.
Earnings Per Ordinary Share continued No ordinary shares were issued after the balance sheet date that disposal of investment securities as these are now held in an would have significantly affected the number of ordinary shares available-for-sale portfolio at fair value.
used in the above calculations had they been issued prior to the Had this policy been adopted in 2004, normalised earnings end of the balance sheet period except as described in notes 37 per share would have been 127.5 cents and EPS growth would and 52. have been 20 per cent.
Normalised EPS has grown by 23 per cent.
With the adoption of IAS 39, the Group no longer normalises gains and losses on 13.
Financial Instruments Classification Summary On 1 January 2005, the Group adopted IAS 39 which requires the Group has elected to hold at fair value.
Comparative balance the classification of financial instruments between four recognition sheet lines have been reclassified only to the extent that those principles: at fair value through profit or loss comprising trading and assets or liabilities were treated as trading under UK GAAP for that designated, available-for-sale, held-to-maturity and loans and period.
In addition treasury bills have been disclosed under trading receivables.
The face of the balance sheet now combines financial assets and investment securities, as appropriate, rather than as a instruments that are held at their fair value and subdivided between separate category.
those assets and liabilities held for trading purposes and those that The Groups classification of its principal financial assets and liabilities excluding derivatives is summarised below: 2005 Designated at fair value through profit or AvailableLoans and Held toTrading loss for-sale receivables maturity Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances to banks 1,258 30 21,671 22,959 Loans and advances to customers 230 156 105 111,686 112,177 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 2,223 492 10,199 12,914 Debt securities 5,612 244 25,231 1,264 215 32,566 Equity shares 118 954 1,072 Total assets at 31 December 2005 9,441 892 36,519 134,621 215 181,688 Total assets at 1 January 2005 6,064 1,902 30,451 88,952 1,040 128,409 Designated Amortised Trading at fair value cost Total $million $million $million $million Due to banks 1,102 337 18,834 20,273 Customer accounts 394 614 119,931 120,939 Debt securities in issue 1,068 433 25,913 27,414 Short positions 2,345 2,345 Total liabilities at 31 December 2005 4,909 1,384 164,678 170,971 Total liabilities at 1 January 2005 3,708 110,942 114,650 84 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 14.
Financial Assets Held at Fair Value through Profit or Loss Certain loans and advances and debt securities with fixed rates of The changes in fair value of both the underlying loans and interest are designated at fair value through profit or loss because advances and debt securities and interest rate swaps are interest rate swaps have been acquired with the intention of monitored in a similar manner to trading book portfolios.
significantly reducing interest rate risk.
Derivatives are recorded at Upon adoption of IAS 32 and 39, the Group designated these fair value whereas loans and advances are usually recorded at assets at fair value as at 1 January 2005.
The carrying amount amortised cost.
Designation of the loans and debt securities at of $1,898 million under UK GAAP was revalued to $1,902 million.
fair value through profit or loss significantly reduces the accounting mismatch between fair value and amortised cost The fair value loss on assets designated at fair value through profit income recognition a criteria of IFRS.
The Group ensures the or loss was $8 million.
criteria under IFRS are met by matching the principal terms of interest rate swaps to the corresponding loan and debt security.
2005 2004 Designated at fair value through Trading profit or loss Total Total Trading $million $million $million $million Loans and advances to banks 1,258 1,258 695 Loans and advances to customers 230 156 386 140 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 2,223 492 2,715 236 Debt securities 5,612 244 5,856 3,673 Equity shares 118 118 9,441 892 10,333 4,744 Debt securities 2005 2004 $million $million Issued by public bodies: Government securities 1,632 1,792 Other public sector securities 1 1,632 1,793 Issued by banks: Certificates of deposit 811 82 Other debt securities 1,028 777 1,839 859 Issued by corporate entities and other issuers: Other debt securities 2,385 1,021 Total debt securities 5,856 3,673 Of which: Listed on a recognised UK exchange 537 Listed elsewhere 1,526 1,505 Unlisted 3,793 2,168 5,856 3,673 Equity securities Unlisted 118 www.
Derivative Financial Instruments Derivatives are financial instruments that derive their value of principal underlying the contract at the reporting date.
from changes in response to changes in interest rates, financial In respect of credit risk arising from the use of derivatives, instrument prices, commodity prices, foreign exchange rates, the Group sets limits on net open positions.
The amount of credit credit risk and indices.
The types of derivatives used by the risk is the current positive fair value asset of the underlying Group are set out below.
The credit risk is managed as part of the overall lending On 1 January 2005 the Group adopted IAS 39.
It requires all limits to banks and customers, together with potential exposures derivatives to be recognised as trading and recorded at fair value, from market movements.
The Group further limits its exposure to with all revaluation gains recognised in profit or loss except credit losses in the event of default by entering into master netting where cash flow hedging has been achieved, in which case agreements with certain market counterparties.
Exposures are changes in fair value go through reserves.
For the comparatives not presented net in these accounts after 1 January 2005 as UK GAAP has been applied.
Under UK GAAP, derivatives held transactions are not usually settled on a net basis as required for hedging purposes are classified as non-trading and are not by IAS 39. recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.
The Derivatives and Hedging section of the Financial Review These tables analyse the notional principal amounts and on pages 35 and 36 explains the Groups risk management the positive and negative fair values of the Groups derivative of derivative contracts and is incorporated in these financial financial instruments.
Notional principal amounts are the amount statements accordingly.
2005 2004 Notional Notional principal principal amounts Assets Liabilities amounts Assets Liabilities $million $million $million $million $million $million Total derivatives Foreign exchange derivative contracts: Forward foreign exchange contracts 326,053 5,392 5,884 409,003 6,789 6,500 Currency swaps and options 175,121 351 487 116,734 2,592 2,532 Exchange traded futures and options 238 501,174 5,743 6,371 525,975 9,381 9,032 Interest rate derivative contracts: Swaps 471,652 3,452 3,239 411,722 3,376 3,129 Forward rate agreements and options 68,015 72 160 57,970 101 127 Exchange traded futures and options 117,026 43 27 96,282 54 54 656,693 3,567 3,426 565,974 3,531 3,310 Credit derivative contracts 9,374 45 52 Equity and stock index options 379 3 3 Commodity derivative contracts 4,642 12 12 6,030 33 33 Total derivatives 1,172,262 9,370 9,864 1,097,979 12,945 12,375 Effect of netting 6,271 7,563 Net credit risk on derivatives 3,099 5,382 Under UK GAAP derivatives used for hedging purposes were recognised on balance sheet at their accrued amount.
The 2004 comparative amounts in the table above include positive fair values of $50 million and negative fair values of $37 million that were not recognised on balance sheet.
86 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 15.
Derivative Financial Instruments continued The Group uses derivatives primarily to mitigate interest changes of the hedged item, both of which are recognised in rate and foreign exchange risk.
Hedge accounting is applied to profit or loss.
derivatives and hedged items when the criteria under IFRS have Cash flow hedges been met.
The table below lists the types of derivatives that have The Group uses swaps to manage the variability in future interest achieved hedge accounting with the following two categories: cash flows on assets and liabilities that have floating rates of Fair value hedges interest by exchanging the floating rates for fixed rates.
It also The Group uses interest rate swaps to manage fixed rates of uses foreign exchange contracts to manage the variability in interest.
The swaps exchange fixed rate for floating rates on future exchange rates on its assets and liabilities and costs in funding to match floating rates received on assets or exchanges foreign currencies.
Gains and losses arising on the hedges are fixed rates on assets to match the floating rates paid on funding.
deferred in reserves until the variability on the cash flow affects For qualifying hedges, the fair value changes of the derivative profit or loss, at which time the gains or losses are transferred are substantially matched by corresponding fair value to profit or loss.
2005 2004 Notional Notional principal principal amounts Assets Liabilities amounts Assets Liabilities $million $million $million $million $million $million Derivatives held for hedging Derivatives designated as fair value hedges Swaps 6,123 368 143 6,123 368 143 Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges Swaps 3,581 24 Forward foreign exchange contracts 802 4 23 4,383 4 47 Hedges under UK GAAP Swaps 2,304 17 4 Forward rate agreements and options 495 Commodity derivative contracts 6,030 33 33 Total derivatives held for hedging 10,506 372 190 8,829 50 37 www.
Loans and Advances to Banks 2005 2004 $million $million Loans and advances to banks 22,982 17,446 Individual impairment provision note 19 22 52 Portfolio impairment provision note 19 1 Interest in suspense 12 22,959 17,382 Of which: loans and advances held at fair value through profit or loss note 14 1,258 695 21,701 16,687 17.
Loans and Advances to Customers 2005 2004 $million $million Loans and advances to customers 113,908 74,463 Individual impairment provision note 19 1,364 1,407 Portfolio impairment provision note 19 367 General provisions note 19 335 Interest in suspense 562 112,177 72,159 Of which: loans and advances held at fair value through profit or loss note 14 386 140 111,791 72,019 The Group has transferred to third parties by way of securitisation The Groups exposure to credit risk is concentrated in Hong the rights to any collections of principal and interest on customer Kong, Korea and the Asia Pacific region.
The Group is affected loan assets with a face value of $65 million 2004: $79 million.
by the general economic conditions in the territories in which it The Group continues to be exposed to related credit and foreign operates.
The Group sets limits on the exposure to any exchange risk on these assets.
The Group continues to recognise counterparty, and credit risk is spread over a variety of different these assets in addition to the proceeds and related liability of personal and commercial customers.
The Group has outstanding $65 million 2004: $79 million arising from the securitisations.
residential mortgage loans to Korea residents of $22.5 billion 2004: $nil and Hong Kong residents of approximately $12.0 billion 2004: $12.2 billion.
88 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 17.
Loans and Advances to Customers continued The following table shows loans and advances to customers by each principal category of borrowers business or industry: 2005 2004 One year One to five Over or less years five years Total Total $million $million $million $million $million Loans to individuals Mortgages 4,756 9,598 29,717 44,071 22,018 Other 8,352 4,666 1,572 14,590 10,001 Small and medium enterprises 5,883 1,687 1,921 9,491 3,479 Consumer Banking 18,991 15,951 33,210 68,152 35,498 Agriculture, forestry and fishing 546 81 19 646 656 Construction 602 99 12 713 615 Commerce 6,518 481 78 7,077 6,325 Electricity, gas and water 684 198 680 1,562 1,394 Financing, insurance and business services 6,552 1,706 628 8,886 9,012 Loans to governments 4,507 197 170 4,874 2,105 Mining and quarrying 699 216 213 1,128 1,527 Manufacturing 8,477 2,068 798 11,343 9,326 Commercial real estate 2,433 974 73 3,480 2,126 Transport, storage and communication 1,544 872 974 3,390 2,962 Other 888 354 51 1,293 948 Wholesale Banking 33,450 7,246 3,696 44,392 36,996 Portfolio impairment provision 367 General provision 335 112,177 72,159 18.
Assets Leased to Customers 2005 2004 $million $million Finance leases 298 181 Instalment credit agreements 851 1,052 1,149 1,233 Assets leased to customers are included in loans and advances to customers.
The cost of assets acquired during the year for leasing to customers under finance leases and instalment credit agreements amounted to $201 million 2004: $111 million.
2005 2004 $million $million Minimum lease receivables under finance leases falling due: Within one year 73 67 Later than one year and less than five years 266 92 After five years 23 30 362 189 Interest income relating to future periods 64 8 Present value of finance lease receivables 298 181 www.
Impairment Provisions on Loans and Advances 2005 2004 Total Specific General $million $million $million Provisions held at beginning of year 1,794 1,661 425 1 Adoption of IAS 39 12 At 1 January 1,782 1,661 425 Exchange translation differences 25 13 Acquisitions 407 36 Amount utilised 39 Amounts written off 871 607 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 153 95 Discount unwinding 48 Other 24 8 4 New provisions 915 609 1 Recoveries provisions no longer required 583 340 55 2 Net charge against credit to profit 332 269 55 3 Provisions held at 31 December 1,754 1,459 335 1.
The opening balance at 1 January 2005 was adjusted with the adoption of IAS 39.
The individual impairment provision increased by $90 million.
The general provision recorded under UK GAAP was reversed.
Under IAS 39, a portfolio impairment provision of $233 million was created.
The net charge of $332 million comprises $255 million individual impairment charge and $77 million portfolio impairment charge.
It excludes provision releases of $13 million for credit commitments note 34.
The total impairment charge on loans and advances and other credit risks is $319 million.
The provision of $1,754 million held at 31 December 2005 comprises $1,386 million individual impairment provision and $368 million portfolio impairment provision.
The following table shows impairment provisions by each principal category of borrowers business or industry: 2005 2004 $million $million Loans to individuals Mortgages 107 61 Other 70 66 Small and medium enterprises 351 51 Consumer Banking 528 178 Agriculture, forestry and fishing 32 39 Construction 24 40 Commerce 129 386 Electricity, gas and water 16 11 Financing, insurance and business services 105 101 Loans to governments 44 Mining and quarrying 26 34 Manufacturing 355 435 Commercial real estate 16 3 Transport, storage and communication 53 49 Other 80 87 Wholesale Banking 836 1,229 Individual impairment provision against loans and advances to customers note 17 1,364 1,407 Individual impairment provision against loans and advances to banks note 16 22 52 Portfolio impairment provision general provision note 16, 17 368 335 Total impairment provisions on loans and advances 1,754 1,794 90 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 20.
Non-Performing Loans and Advances 2005 2004 SCNB SCNB LMA Other Total LMA Other Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Non-performing loans and advances 2,694 2,694 351 2,586 2,937 Impairment provision 1,754 1,754 115 1,344 1,459 Interest in suspense 574 574 940 940 236 668 904 Net non-performing loans and advances comprises loans and Accordingly, the balances have been derecognised and are advances to banks $24 million 31 December 2004: $55 million shown as $nil under SCNB in the table above.
and loans and advances to customers $916 million 31 December Impairment provisions cover 65 per cent of non-performing 2004: $849 million.
lending to customers 2004: 74 per cent, excluding the SCNB The Group acquired Standard Chartered Nakornthon Bank non-performing loan portfolio of $351 million subject to the LMA.
Under the terms of the acquisition, Impairment provision for 2005 includes $368 million of portfolio non-performing loans were subject to a Loan Management impairment provision and 2004 excludes $335 million of general Agreement LMA with a Thai Government Agency The Financial provision under UK GAAP.
Institutions Development Fund FIDF which guaranteed certain losses.
The LMA expired in 2004 and the losses guaranteed by FIDF have been settled during 2005.
Investment Securities 2005 2004  and maturity forsale receivables Total Total $million $million $million $million $million Treasury and other eligible bills 10,199 10,199 4,189 Debt securities 215 25,231 1,264 26,710 29,169 Equity securities 954 954 253 215 36,384 1,264 37,863 33,611 2005 Debt Securities  and Equity Treasury maturity for-sale receivables securities bills Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Issued by public bodies: Government securities 215 8,618 Other public sector securities 1,418 215 10,036 Issued by banks: Certificates of deposit 6,330 Other debt securities 5,973 12,303 Issued by corporate entities and other issuers: Other debt securities 2,892 1,264 2,892 1,264 Total debt securities 215 25,231 1,264 Listed on a recognised UK exchange 5,944 23 5,967 Listed elsewhere 3 6,776 235 7,005 14,019 Unlisted 212 12,511 1,264 696 3,194 17,877 215 25,231 1,264 954 10,199 37,863 www.
Investment Securities continued 2004 Debt Equity Treasury securities securities bills Total $million $million $million $million Issued by public bodies: Government securities 8,477 Other public sector securities 1,263 9,740 Issued by banks: Certificates of deposit 6,076 Other debt securities 6,678 12,754 Issued by corporate entities and other issuers: Other debt securities 6,675 6,675 Total debt securities 29,169 Listed on a recognised UK exchange 5,651 5,651 Listed elsewhere 6,700 88 6,788 Unlisted 16,818 165 4,189 21,172 29,169 253 4,189 33,611 The change in the carrying book amount of investment securities comprised: 2005 2004 Debt Equity Treasury Debt Equity Treasury securities securities bills Total securities securities bills Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Opening 29,169 253 4,189 33,611 20,801 359 5,533 26,693 Adoption of IAS 39 1,571 39 251 1,783 At 1 January 27,598 292 3,938 31,828 20,801 359 5,533 26,693 Exchange translation differences 1,026 1 154 1,179 16 1 20 5 Acquisitions 2,327 289 5,622 8,238 Additions 33,655 658 13,443 47,756 79,813 121 9,396 89,330 Transfers 35 35 Maturities and disposals 35,748 351 12,599 48,698 71,452 228 10,778 82,458 Provisions 1 1 33 33 Changes in fair value 107 104 29 32 Amortisation of discounts and premiums 25 3 11 17 23 18 41 At 31 December 26,710 954 10,199 37,863 29,169 253 4,189 33,611 From 1 January 2005 all available-for-sale investments are held at fair value in accordance with IFRSs, with corresponding opening adjustments.
Treasury bills and other eligible bills include $2,347 million 2004: 31 December 2004: $135 million and unamortised discounts $nil of bills sold subject to sale and repurchase transactions.
amounted to $41 million 31 December 2004: $356 million.
The valuation of listed securities is at market value and of unlisted Debt securities include $811 million 2004: $1,068 million of securities is at fair value.
Income from listed equity shares securities sold subject to sale and repurchase transactions.
amounted to $32 million 31 December 2004: $4 million and At 31 December 2005, unamortised premiums on debt income from unlisted equity shares amounted to $30 million securities held for investment purposes amounted to $59 million 31 December 2004: $7 million.
92 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 22.
Investments in Subsidiary Undertakings, Joint Ventures and Associates Historical cost $million At 1 January 2005 4,292 Additions 3,681 At 31 December 2005 7,973 At 31 December 2005, the principal subsidiary undertakings, all indirectly held and principally engaged in the business of banking and provision of other financial services, were as follows: Group interest in Country and place of incorporation or registration Main areas of operation ordinary share capital Standard Chartered Bank, England United Kingdom, Middle East, South 100% Asia, Asia Pacific, Americas and, through Group companies, Africa Standard Chartered First Bank Korea Limited, Korea Korea 100% Standard Chartered Bank Malaysia Berhad, Malaysia Malaysia 100% Standard Chartered Bank Hong Kong Limited, Hong Kong Hong Kong 100% Standard Chartered Bank Thai Public Company Limited, Thailand Thailand 99.8% Standard Chartered Capital Management Jersey LLC, United States United States 100% Standard Chartered Receivables UK Limited, England and Wales United Kingdom 100% Standard Chartered Financial Investments Limited, England and Wales United Kingdom 100% Standard Chartered Debt Trading Limited, England and Wales Hong Kong 100% formerly Standard Chartered Nakornthon Bank Public Company Limited, Thailand Details of all Group companies will be filed with the next annual return of the Company.
Joint venture The Group has a joint venture arrangement which holds a majority banking acceptances, guarantees and irrevocable letters investment in PT Bank Permata Tbk, in Indonesia.
proportionately consolidates its 31.55 per cent share line by line.
There are no capital commitments of the venturers.
Contingent liabilities set out in note 44, includes $11 million relating to this joint venture arrangement.
These mainly comprise Related party transactions are disclosed in note 51.
The following amounts have been included in the consolidated accounts of the Group: 2005 2004 $million $million Total assets 1,231 1,179 Total liabilities 1,032 992 199 187 Income 69 8 Expenses 62 5 Impairment 2 Operating profit 9 3 Tax 2 1 Share of post tax result from joint venture 7 2 www.
Investments in Subsidiary Undertakings, Joint Ventures and Associates continued Interests in associates 2005 2004 $million $million At 1 January Additions 128 At 31 December 128 Total assets 128 Total liabilities 128 On 15 August 2005, the Group invested $128 million in establishing operating polices.
Its operations commence in 2006 and as such China Bohai Bank.
there is no share of income and expenses for 2005.
The Groups investment in China Bohai Bank is less than 20% The reporting date of the associate is coterminous with but is considered to be an associate because of the significant the Group.
influence the Group has over the management and financial and 23. Business Combinations 2005 acquisitions On 15 April 2005, the Group acquired 100 per cent of the share If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2005, SCFB would capital of Korea First Bank now called SC First Bank, a major have added approximately $1,150 million to Group operating banking group in the Republic of Korea South Korea.
The income and $300 million to profit before tax for the period.
acquired business contributed operating income of $859 million and profit before tax of $227 million to the Group for the period from 15 April 2005 to 31 December 2005.
$million Details of net assets acquired and goodwill are as follows: Purchase consideration: cash paid 3,338 direct costs relating to the acquisition 35 Total purchase consideration 3,373 Fair value of net assets acquired 1,635 Goodwill 1,738 The goodwill is attributable to the significant synergies expected to arise from the development of SCFB within the Standard Chartered Group and those intangibles such as workforce in place which are not recognised separately.
94 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 23. Business Combinations continued The assets and liabilities arising from the acquisition are as follows: Acquirees carrying Fair value amount $million $million Cash and balances at central banks 2,321 2,321 Derivative financial instruments 27 27 Loans and advances to banks 890 890 Loans and advances to customers 31,455 31,983 Investment securities 8,153 8,139 Intangibles other than goodwill 229 58 Property, plant and equipment 1,088 1,109 Deferred tax assets 97 15 Other assets 887 884 Total assets 45,147 45,426 Deposits by banks 2,782 2,782 Customer accounts 18,923 19,328 Financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss 121 Derivative financial instruments 240 240 Debt securities in issue 16,871 17,243 Other liabilities 2,962 2,239 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 1,280 1,514 Total liabilities 43,179 43,346 Minority interest 333 298 Net assets acquired 1,635 1,782 Purchase consideration settled in cash 3,373 Cash and cash equivalents in subsidiary acquired 2,378 Cash outflow on acquisition 995 Cash and balances at central banks include amounts subject to regulatory restrictions.
The fair value amounts contain some provisional balances which will be finalised in the 2006 accounts.
The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition on SCFB can be analysed as follows: $million Brand names 86 Customer relationships 24 Core deposits 91 Capitalised software 28 Total 229 The Group acquired a further 24.97 per cent of Standard Chartered Nakornthon Bank Public Company in Thailand for $98 million giving rise to goodwill of $64 million and 100 per cent of Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation in India for $30 million giving rise to negative goodwill of $6 million which has been recognised through the Consolidated Income Statement.
com 95 23. Business Combinations continued 2004 acquisitions book value of Advantage as at 30 June 2004, adjusted to reflect Fair value adjustments for consistent accounting policies the current market value of certain properties and any shortfall principally relate to alignment of policies on depreciation in the net assets of an associated company Consideration.
of tangible fixed assets and measurement of credit risk.
A deposit of HKD 100 million was paid by Standard Chartered Links Hong Kong Limited on signing of the Agreement on Acquisitions in the table below include the additional 25 per cent 28 June 2004. stake in Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited, 100 per cent ownership of Advantage Limited, the 31.55 per cent stake in An amount equal to 90 per cent of the Consideration less the deposit was paid in cash on completion of the Agreement with PT Bank Permata Tbk and the ANZ Project Finance business the balance paid on 31 December 2005.
The consideration was excluding Australia and Non-Japan Asia.
fully funded from the Groups internal resources.
The effective date of acquisition of the additional 25 per cent The effective date of acquisition of PT Bank Permata Tbk stake in Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited was was 10 December 2004.
It has been accounted for using the 19 August 2004.
The acquisition has been accounted for using acquisition method.
The acquisition is being accounted as a joint the acquisition method.
The post-acquisition profit after taxation venture and proportionately consolidated.
The Groups share of and minority interests was $1 million for 2004. post acquisition profits after amortisation of goodwill and taxation The effective date of acquisition of Advantage Limited was $2 million for 2004.
It has been accounted for The effective date of acquisition of the ANZ Project Finance using the acquisition method.
The post acquisition profit after business excluding Australia and Non-Japan Asia was taxation of Advantage was $4 million for 2004.
It has been accounted for using the The total consideration payable for the shares in Advantage acquisition method.
The post-acquisition loss after taxation was was HKD 980 million, calculated as a multiple of the audited net $1 million for 2004, including integration expenses of $2 million.
Details of net assets acquired and goodwill are as follows: $million Purchase consideration: cash paid 328 direct costs relating to the acquisition 5 Total purchase consideration 333 Fair value of net assets acquired 240 Goodwill 93 The assets and liabilities arising from the acquisitions are as follows: Acquirees carrying Fair value amount $million $million Cash and balances at central banks 26 26 Loans and advances to banks and customers 1,518 1,518 Investment securities 113 113 Interests in joint ventures 192 192 Property, plant and equipment 11 12 Other assets 82 90 Total assets 1,942 1,951 Deposits by banks and customer accounts 940 940 Other liabilities 754 754 Total liabilities 1,694 1,694 Minority interests 8 Net assets acquired 240 Purchase consideration settled in cash 333 Cash and cash equivalents in subsidiary acquired 26 Cash outflow on acquisition 307 Cash and balances at central banks include amounts subject to regulatory restrictions.
96 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 24.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets 2005 2004 Acquired Acquired Goodwill intangibles Software Total Goodwill intangibles Software Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Cost At 1 January 2,643 466 3,109 2,500 492 2,992 Exchange translation differences 8 2 3 7 4 4 Acquisitions 1,802 216 28 2,046 210 210 Additions 88 88 83 83 Disposals 14 14 18 18 Amounts written off 2 103 105 67 95 162 At 31 December 4,451 218 462 5,131 2,643 466 3,109 Provision for amortisation At 1 January 514 242 756 514 216 730 Exchange translation differences 2 2 Amortisation for the period 32 125 157 123 123 Disposals 4 4 2 2 Amounts written off 97 97 95 95 At 31 December 514 32 264 810 514 242 756 Net book value 3,937 186 198 4,321 2,129 224 2,353 Acquired intangibles comprises: Core deposits 77 Customer relationships 22 Brand trademarks 82 Licences 5 186 Acquired intangibles and software have finite lives that are In the transition to IFRS, all goodwill amortisation recorded amortised over their economic useful life and charged through the since 1 January 2004 was reversed.
This included goodwill amortisation and depreciation line in the income statement.
The amortisation relating to Banco Standard Chartered in Latin estimated useful life of software is three to five years.
Acquired America and the Standard Chartered Bank SAL in the Lebanon.
intangibles were acquired as part of the acquisitions of SCFB and The amortisation of the carrying amount of this goodwill would PT Bank Permata Tbk and are amortised over four to sixteen have fully amortised by 2005.
In the 2004 IFRS comparatives, years.
Software results from capitalised internal costs in an impairment charge of $67 million has been recorded to carry developing programmes for the operation of the Groups related goodwill at $nil.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets continued Significant items of goodwill arising on acquisitions after foreign exchange effects has been allocated to the following cash generating units for the purposes of impairment testing: Goodwill Acquisition Cash Generating Unit $million SCFB Korean business 1,758 Manhattan Card Business Credit card and personal loan Asia, India & MESA 896 Grindlays India India business 370 Grindlays MESA MESA business 368 SC Nakornthon Thailand business 264 Permata Groups share of Permata 105 Other 176 3,937 All recoverable amounts were measured based on value in In assessing impairment of goodwill, the Group assumed that use.
The key assumptions and approach to determining value growth would increase at a steady rate in line with long-term in use calculations, as set out below, are solely estimates for forecast GDP growth of India.
A discount rate of 14.6 per cent the purposes of assessing impairment on acquired goodwill.
The calculation for each unit uses cash flow projections based Grindlays MESA on budgets and forecasts approved by management covering Grindlays MESA was acquired in 2000 with initial goodwill one year and extrapolated for a further 19 years using steady recognised of $446 million.
This was amortised to $366 million growth rates.
Where these rates are different from available under UK GAAP until 31 December 2003.
It comprises Consumer market data on long-term rates, that fact is stated below.
and Wholesale Banking operations in MESA.
Management believes that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which the recoverable amounts have In assessing impairment of goodwill, the Group assumed that been based would not cause the carrying amounts to exceed growth would increase at a steady rate in line with long term their recoverable amount.
forecast GDP growth of MESA.
A discount rate of 13.7 per cent was used.
SCFB SCFB was acquired in April 2005 with initial goodwill recognised SC Nakornthon of $1,738 million.
It comprises Consumer and Wholesale Banking 75 per cent of SC Nakornthon was acquired in 1999 with initial operations in Korea.
This was amortised to $204 million under UK GAAP until 31 December 2003.
In 2005 In assessing impairment of goodwill, the Group assumed that the Group acquired the remaining 24.97 per cent, increasing growth would increase at a steady rate in line with long-term goodwill to $272 million.
The business comprises Consumer forecast GDP growth of Korea.
A discount rate of 13.5 per cent and Wholesale Banking operations.
In assessing impairment of goodwill, the Group assumed that Manhattan Card Business growth would increase at a steady rate in line with long-term Manhattan Card Business was acquired in 2000 with initial forecast GDP growth of Thailand.
A discount rate of 17.4 per cent goodwill recognised of $1,061 million.
This was amortised to was used.
$892 million under UK GAAP until 31 December 2003.
The business comprises a credit card and a personal loans business Permata across Asia, India and MESA.
31.55 per cent of Permata was acquired in 2004 with initial goodwill recognised of $115 million.
This business comprises In assessing impairment of goodwill, the Group assumed Consumer and Wholesale Banking operations in Indonesia.
that growth would increase at a steady rate in line with long-term forecast GDP growth of the world.
A discount rate of In assessing impairment of goodwill, the Group assumed that 10.1 per cent was used.
growth would increase at a steady rate in line with long-term forecast GDP growth of Indonesia.
A discount rate of Grindlays India 17.8 per cent was used.
Grindlays India was acquired in 2000 with initial goodwill recognised of $446 million.
This was amortised to $366 million under UK GAAP until 31 December 2003.
It comprises Consumer and Wholesale Banking operations in India.
98 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 25.
Property, Plant and Equipment 2005 2004 Premises Equipment Total Premises Equipment Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Cost or valuation At 1 January 653 337 990 616 386 1,002 Exchange translation differences 6 6 5 10 15 Additions 70 65 135 83 28 111 Acquisitions 1,052 36 1,088 11 11 Disposals and fully depreciated assets written off 26 66 92 67 85 152 Other 55 48 7 5 2 3 At 31 December 1,694 414 2,108 653 337 990 Depreciation Accumulated at 1 January 180 255 435 137 261 398 Exchange translation differences 4 6 10 4 6 10 Charge for the year 53 73 126 47 68 115 Attributable to assets sold or written off 22 62 84 21 79 100 Other 30 27 3 12 1 11 Impairment 1 1 Accumulated at 31 December 177 287 464 180 255 435 Net book amount at 31 December 1,517 127 1,644 473 82 555 2005 2004 $million $million Premises analysis of net book amount Freehold 1,183 150 Long leasehold 69 73 Short leasehold 265 250 1,517 473 In the transition to IFRS the Group ceased revaluing premises and now carries the revalued amounts as at 1 January 2004 as deemed cost.
Assets held under finance leases have the following net book amount: 2005 2004 Premises Equipment Premises Equipment $million $million $million $million Cost 48 7 45 6 Aggregate depreciation 3 5 2 4 Net book amount 45 2 43 2 www.
Property, Plant and Equipment continued The Groups premises leases include rent review periods, renewal terms and in some cases purchase options.
2005 2004 $million $million Minimum lease payments under finance leases falling due: Within one year 1 2 Later than one year and less than five years 2 2 After five years 3 4 Future finance charges on finance leases 1 Present value of finance lease liabilities 3 3 26.
Deferred Tax The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the reporting period: At At Exchange Charge At 31 1 January Adoption of 1 January translation credit to Credit to December 2005 IAS 32 39 2005 differences Acquisitions profit equity 2005 $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Deferred taxation comprises: Accelerated tax depreciation 5 5 17 12 34 Provisions for loans and advances 144 16 128 3 53 1 185 Tax losses carried forward 9 9 2 7 Available for sale securities 9 9 8 49 32 Premises revaluation 12 12 12 Cash flow hedges 1 1 1 Unrelieved foreign tax 21 21 21 Retirement benefit obligations 46 46 1 47 15 51 160 Share options 7 7 8 86 101 Other temporary differences 98 76 22 1 12 48 29 10 318 100 218 3 97 35 215 498 At Exchange Charge At 31 1 January translation credit to Credit to December 2004 differences profit equity 2004 $million $million $million $million $million Deferred taxation comprises: Accelerated tax depreciation 16 21 5 Provisions for loans and advances 143 1 144 Tax losses carried forward 25 16 9 Available for sale securities Premises revaluation 35 23 12 Cash flow hedges Unrelieved foreign tax 21 21 Retirement benefit obligations 46 46 Share options 7 7 Other temporary differences 148 1 65 14 98 265 2 16 67 318 100 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 26.
Deferred Tax continued 2005 2004 $million $million No account has been taken of the following potential deferred taxation assets liabilities : Tax losses carried forward 4 Provisions for loans and advances 20 Unrelieved foreign tax 239 178 Unremitted earnings from overseas subsidiaries 144 64 Foreign exchange movements on investments in branches 33 20 Premises revaluation 16 16 Other 35 35 No provision is made for any tax liability which might arise on the disposal of subsidiary undertakings or branches that are foreign operations at the amounts stated in these accounts, other than in respect of disposals which are intended in the foreseeable future.
Other Assets 2005 2004 $million $million Hong Kong SAR Government certificates of indebtedness note 33 2,492 2,532 Mark-to-market adjustments arising on foreign exchange and interest rate contracts 7,318 Other 4,671 1,747 7,163 11,597 The Hong Kong SAR Government certificates of indebtedness are subordinated to the claims of other parties.
Deposits by Banks 2005 2004 $million $million Deposits by banks 18,834 15,162 Deposits by banks included within: Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss note 30 1,439 652 20,273 15,814 29.
Customer Accounts 2005 2004 $million $million Customer accounts 119,931 85,093 Customer accounts included within: Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss note 30 1,008 365 120,939 85,458 Included in customer accounts were deposits of $2,640 million 2004: $nil held as collateral for irrevocable commitments under import letters of credit.
Customer accounts include $964 million 2004: $1,001 million of liabilities under sale and repurchase agreements.
Financial Liabilities at Fair Value through Profit or Loss 2005 2004 Total Trading Designated Total Trading $million $million $million $million Deposits by banks 1,102 337 1,439 652 Customer accounts 394 614 1,008 365 Debt securities in issue 1,068 433 1,501 622 Short positions 2,345 2,345 753 4,909 1,384 6,293 2,392 The Group designates certain financial liabilities at fair value recognition a criteria of IFRS.
The Group ensures the criteria through profit or loss where either the liabilities: under IFRS are met by matching the principal terms of derivatives to the corresponding liabilities either individually or on a have fixed rates of interest and interest rate swaps or other portfolio basis.
interest related derivatives have been acquired with the intention of significantly reducing interest rate risk: or The changes in fair value of both the underlying liabilities and derivatives are monitored in a similar manner to trading are exposed foreign currency risk and derivatives have been book portfolios.
acquired with the intention of significantly reducing exposure to market changes: or Upon adoption of IAS 32 and 39, the Group designated these liabilities at fair value as at 1January 2005.
The carrying amount have been acquired to fund trading asset portfolios or assets, under UK GAAP was $nil.
or where the assets and liabilities are managed, and performance evaluated, on a fair value basis for a documented The fair value gain on liabilities designated at fair value through risk management or investment strategy.
profit or loss was $12 million for the year.
Of this, $1.7 million relates to changes in credit risk.
Of total fair value, $1.9 million Derivatives are recorded at fair value whereas non-trading relates to credit risk.
financial liabilities unless designated at fair value are recorded The difference between the carrying amount at fair value and the at amortised cost.
Designation of certain liabilities at fair value through profit or loss significantly reduces the accounting amount the Group is contractually obliged to pay at maturity to mismatch between fair value and amortised cost expense the holders of the obligations is $34.1 million.
Debt Securities in Issue 2005 2004 Certificates of Certificates of deposit of Other debt deposit of Other debt $100,000 securities $100,000 securities or more in issue Total or more in issue Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Debt securities in issue 14,179 11,734 25,913 4,079 6,926 11,005 Debt securities in issue within: Financial liabilities at fair value 201 1,300 1,501 622 622 through profit or loss note 30 14,380 13,034 27,414 4,079 7,548 11,627 102 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 32.
Other Liabilities 2005 2004 $million $million Mark-to-market adjustments arising on foreign exchange and interest rate contracts 7,077 Notes in circulation 2,492 2,532 Cash settled share based payments 26 19 Other liabilities 5,928 5,161 8,446 14,789 Hong Kong currency notes in circulation of $2,492 million 31 December 2004: $2,532 million are secured by Hong Kong SAR Government certificates of indebtedness of the same amount included in other assets note 27.
Provisions for Liabilities and Charges Provision for credit Other commitments provisions Total $million $million $million At 1 January 2005 53 8 61 Exchange translation differences 2 1 1 Acquired 31 31 Release charge against profit 13 12 1 Provisions utilised 8 2 10 Other 22 5 27 At 31 December 2005 43 12 55 Provisions principally comprise legal claims made against the Group.
The timing of concluding these legal claims is uncertain, as is the amount of possible outflow of economic benefits.
Timing and cost ultimately depends on the due process in respective legal jurisdictions.
Retirement Benefit Obligations Retirement benefit obligations comprise: 2005 2004 $million $million Defined benefit schemes 465 160 Defined contribution schemes 11 9 Net book amount 476 169 2005 2004 $million $million At 1 January 169 128 Exchange translation differences 7 9 Charge against profit net of finance income 126 82 Change in net liability 188 61 Other 11 At 31 December 476 169 Retirement benefit charge comprises: 2005 2004 $million $million Defined benefit schemes 71 45 Defined contribution schemes 60 45 Other 2 131 92 104 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 35.
Retirement Benefit Obligations continued UK Fund The financial position of the Groups principal retirement benefit performed as at 31 December 2002 by T. Cunningham, Fellow of scheme, the Standard Chartered Pension Fund the Fund the Institute of Actuaries, of Lane, Clark and Peacock Actuaries, a defined benefit scheme, is assessed in the light of the advice using the projected unit method.
The assumptions having the of an independent qualified actuary.
The most recent actuarial most significant effect on the outcome of this valuation were: assessment of the Fund for the purpose of funding was Return from investments held for pensioners 5.0 per cent per annum Return from investments held for non-pensioners before retirement 6.4 per cent per annum Return from investments held for non-pensioners after retirement 5.2 per cent per annum General increase in salaries 4.8 per cent per annum Increase in pensions: In deferment where applicable 2.3 per cent per annum In payment pre April 1997 service 2.3 per cent per annum In payment post April 1997 service 2.3 per cent per annum Applies to discretionary increases and some guaranteed increases.
Applying these assumptions, at the valuation date the market With effect from 1 July 1998 the Fund was closed to new entrants value of the assets of the Fund $1,197 million was sufficient to and new employees have subsequently been offered membership cover 97 per cent of the benefits that had accrued to members of a defined contribution scheme.
84 per cent including the allowance for discretionary benefit Overseas Schemes increases.
The Group paid an additional contribution of The principal overseas defined benefit arrangements operated by $114 million into the Fund on 30 December 2003 to improve the the Group are in Hong Kong, India, Jersey, Kenya, Korea and the financial position of the Fund.
No further additional contributions United States.
were paid during 2004 and none are currently expected to be required until 1 January 2009.
The disclosures required under IAS 19 have been calculated by qualified independent actuaries based on the most recent full Contributions payable to the Fund during 2005 totalled actuarial valuations updated, where necessary, to 31 December $11 million 2004: $14 million and regular contributions were set 2005.
The effective date of the full valuations ranges between at 22.5 per cent of pensionable salary for all United Kingdom UK 31 December 2002 and 31 December 2005. employees and seconded staff and 38.4 per cent of pensionable salary for international staff.
Due to the closure of the Fund to new Separate figures are disclosed for the UK Fund, Overseas entrants, the current service cost will increase as a percentage of Funded Defined Benefit, Post-retirement Medical and Other pensionable pay as the members approach retirement.
Pension costs for the purpose of these accounts were assessed The financial assumptions used at 31 December 2005 were: using the same method, but the assumptions were different in several respects.
The average has been stated.
Deferred pension increases for the UK Fund are assumed to be 2.8 per cent.
1 The range of assumptions shown is for the main funded defined benefit overseas schemes in Hong Kong, India, Jersey, Kenya and the United States.
These comprise 89 per cent of the total liabilities of funded overseas schemes.
2 The assumption for life expectancy for the UK fund assumes that a male member currently aged 60 will live for 26 years 2004: 24 years and a male member th currently aged 45 will live for 27 years 2004: 25 years after his 60 birthday.
Retirement Benefit Obligations continued Unfunded Schemes 1 Post-retirement Medical Other 2005 2004 2005 2004 % % % % Price inflation 2.70 2.70 2.70-6.00 2.00-6.00 Salary increases 4.00 4.00 4.00-8.00 4.00-8.00 Pension increases N A N A 0.00-2.70 0.00-2.40 Discount rate 5.75 6.20 3.00-14.00 3.00-10.00 Post-retirement medical rate 10% in 2005 9% in 2004 N A N A reducing by reducing by 1% per 1% per annum to 5% annum to 5% in 2010 in 2008 1 The Post-retirement Medical plan is in the United States.
There are no other Post-retirement Medical schemes.
The assets and liabilities of the schemes, attributable to defined benefit members, at 31 December 2005 were: Funded Defined Benefit Schemes Unfunded Schemes UK Fund Overseas Schemes Post-retirement Medical Other Expected Expected Expected Expected return on Value return on Value return on Value return on Value At 31 December 2005 assets % $million assets % $million assets % $million assets % $million Equities 7.75 619 7.75-12.00 162 N A N A N A N A Bonds 4.25 909 4.25-12.00 133 N A N A N A N A Property N A 7.00-12.00 2 N A N A N A N A Others 4.90 22 1.75- 4.90 83 N A N A N A N A Total market value of assets 1,550 380 N A N A Present value of the schemes liabilities 1,785 403 11 196 Net pension liability 235 23 11 196 Funded Defined Benefit Schemes Unfunded Schemes UK Fund Overseas Schemes Post-retirement Medical Other Expected Expected Expected Expected return on Value return on Value return on Value return on Value At 31 December 2004 assets % $million assets % $million assets % $million assets % $million Equities 8.40 649 7.00-12.00 161 N A N A N A N A Bonds 4.76-5.40 916 4.76-12.00 126 N A N A N A N A Property 6.50 6.50-12.00 6 N A N A N A N A Others 4.60 31 1.75-4.90 24 N A N A N A N A Total market value of assets 1,596 317 N A N A Present value of the schemes liabilities 1,679 338 11 45 Net pension liability 83 21 11 45 The range of assumptions shown is for the main Overseas Schemes in Hong Kong, India, Jersey, Kenya and the United States.
The expected return on plan assets is set by reference to historical returns in each of the main asset classes, current market indicators such as long term bond yields and the expected long term strategic asset allocation of each plan.
No scheme contains a surplus that is non-recoverable.
106 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 35.
Retirement Benefit Obligations continued The pension cost for defined benefit schemes was: Funded Defined Benefit Schemes Unfunded Schemes PostOverseas retirement UK Fund Schemes Medical Other Total Year ending 31 December 2005 $million $million $million $million $million Current service cost 16 41 1 14 72 Past service cost Gain on settlements and curtailments 1 1 Expected return on pension scheme assets 93 28 121 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 85 24 7 116 Total charge to profit before deduction of tax 7 37 1 21 66 Gain on assets in excess of expected return 91 20 111 Loss on liabilities 256 5 261 Total loss gain recognised in Statement of Recognised Income and Expenses before tax 165 15 150 Deferred taxation 50 5 45 Total loss gain after tax 115 10 105 The actual return on the UK fund assets was $184 million and on overseas scheme assets was $48 million.
Funded Defined Benefit Schemes Unfunded Schemes PostOverseas retirement UK Fund Schemes Medical Other Total Year ending 31 December 2004 $million $million $million $million $million Current service cost 15 24 8 47 Past service cost 1 1 1 3 Gain on settlements and curtailments 5 5 Expected return on pension scheme assets 91 29 120 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 84 23 1 2 110 Total charge to profit before deduction of tax 9 14 1 11 35 Gain on assets in excess of expected return 20 2 22 Experience loss gain on liabilities 1 1 2 Loss on liabilities 23 7 1 29 Total loss gain recognised in Statement of Recognised Income and Expenses before tax 3 4 1 1 5 Deferred taxation 1 1 Total loss gain after tax 2 4 1 1 4 The actual return on the UK fund assets was $111 million and on overseas scheme assets was $31 million.
The total cumulative amount recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expenses before tax to date is $155 million.
Retirement Benefit Obligations continued Movement in the pension schemes and post-retirement medical deficit during the year comprise: Funded Defined Benefit Schemes Unfunded Schemes PostOverseas retirement UK Fund Schemes Medical Other Total Year ending 31 December 2005 $million $million $million $million $million Deficit at 1 January 2005 83 21 11 45 160 Contributions 11 49 1 11 72 Current service cost 16 41 1 14 72 Past service cost Settlement curtailment costs 1 1 Other finance income charge 8 4 7 5 Actuarial loss gain 165 15 150 Acquisitions 28 141 169 Exchange rate adjustment 9 1 8 Deficit at 31 December 2005 235 23 11 196 465 Funded Defined Benefit Schemes Unfunded Schemes PostOverseas retirement UK Fund Schemes Medical Other Total Year ending 31 December 2004 $million $million $million $million $million Deficit at 1 January 2004 79 47 12 35 173 Contributions 14 49 1 1 65 Current service cost 15 24 8 47 Past service cost 1 1 1 3 Settlement curtailment costs 5 5 Other finance income charge 7 6 1 2 10 Actuarial gain loss 3 4 1 1 5 Acquisitions 4 4 Exchange rate adjustment 6 1 1 8 Deficit at 31 December 2004 83 21 11 45 160 Movement in the pension schemes and post-retirement medical gross assets and obligations during the year comprise: Assets Obligations Total Year ending 31 December 2005 $million $million $million Deficit at 1 January 2005 1,913 2,073 160 Contributions 72 72 Current service cost 72 72 Past service cost Settlement curtailment costs 1 1 Interest cost 116 116 Expected return on scheme assets 121 121 Benefits paid out 98 98 Actuarial gain loss 111 261 150 Acquisitions 2 171 169 Exchange rate adjustment 191 199 8 Deficit at 31 December 2005 1,930 2,395 465 108 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 36.
Subordinated Liabilities and Other Borrowed Funds 2005 2004 $million $million Dated subordinated loan capital issued by subsidiary undertakings 30 million Floating Rate Notes 2009 51 57 300 million 6.75 per cent Notes 2009 476 517 600 million 5.375 per cent Notes 2009 655 730 BWP 75 million Floating Rate Notes 2012 14 18 $325 million Floating Rate Notes 2005 2010 313 575 million 4.5 per cent Notes 2010 771 $700 million 8.0 per cent subordinated Notes 2031 753 620 500 million 8.16 per cent non-cumulative Trust Preferred Securities 2010 630 674 300 million 8.103 per cent Step-Up Callable Perpetual Trust Preferred Securities 2016 628 572 200 million 7.75 per cent Step-Up Notes 2022 426 373 $350 million 4.375 per cent Notes 2014 Floating rate from 2009 340 350 HKD 500 million 3.5 per cent Notes 2014 Floating rate from 2009 62 64 HKD 670 million Floating Rate Notes 2014 85 85 750 million 3.625 per cent Floating rate from 2012 Subordinated rates 2017 880 $500 million Floating Rate Notes 2015 498 $500 million Floating Rate Notes 2016 498 $375 million Subordinated debt 2013 383 $200 million Subordinated debt 2013 206 KRW 205 billion Subordinated debt 2009 200 KRW 160 billion Subordinated debt 2008 157 KRW 136 billion Subordinated debt 2007 133 KRW 104 billion Subordinated debt 2007 102 KRW 40 billion Subordinated debt 2006 40 KRW 30 billion Subordinated debt 2011 29 KRW 27 billion Subordinated debt 2008 27 BWP 50 million Fixed and Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2015 9 TZS 8 billion Subordinated notes 2015 7 KRW 3 billion Subordinated debt 2011 3 7,292 5,144 Undated subordinated loan capital issued by subsidiary undertakings 400 million 683 275 million 473 1,156 Undated subordinated loan capital issued by Company Primary Capital Floating Rate Notes: $400 million 400 400 $300 million Series 2 300 300 $400 million Series 3 400 400 $200 million Series 4 200 200 150 million 258 288 1,558 1,588 Other undated borrowings issued by Undertakings 36 Other undated borrowings issued by Company 343 Total for Group 10,349 6,768 Total for Company 1,893 1,588 In the balance sheet of the Company the amount recognised is $335 million with the difference being the effect of hedge accounting achieved on a Group basis.
Subordinated Liabilities and Other Borrowed Funds continued All dated and undated loan capital described above is unsecured, On 18 April 2005, the Group called back the 575 million unguaranteed and subordinated to the claims of other creditiors convertible debt at par.
The convertible debt had embedded including without limitation, customer deposits and deposits derivative features that had been separated from the underlying by banks.
The Group has the right to settle dated and undated host contract and fair valued on 1 January 2005 on adoption debt instruments in certain circumstances set out in the of IAS 32 and 39. contractual agreements.
SCB Tanzania issued TZS 8 billion subordinated floating rate Of total dated loan capital and other borrowings $6,151 million bonds in June 2005 which have a final redemption in August is at fixed interest rates 31 December 2004: $4,671 million.
2015 though early redemption in whole or in part by the issuer is available five years and one day from the issue date.
Upon adoption of IAS 32 on 1 January 2005, the Groups 3 100 million 7 8 and 100 million 8 per cent irredeemable On 17 June 2005, the Group issued 400 million Undated 1 preference shares were reclassified from equity to Callable Step Up Subordinated Upper Tier 2 notes at an issue subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds.
Interest is payable annually at a fixed rate of 5.375 per cent until 14 July 2020 when variable rate At the same time 200 million 7.75 per cent Step-Up Notes interest of 3 month Libor plus 189 bps will be paid.
These 2022 and 300 million 8.103 per cent Step-Up Callable Perpetual notes have been consolidated and form a single series with Trust Preferred Securities were reclassified as minority interests.
the 400 million notes issued on 17 June 2005.
On 30 December 2005, the terms and conditions of the notes were modified with the approval of the Trustees.
The effect of the On 12 October 2005, the Group issued 275 million Undated modification was to reclassify these instruments from minority Callable Step Up Subordinated Upper Tier 2 notes at an issue interests to subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds at price of 100.43 per cent.
Interest is payable annually on the notes their market value on 30 December 2005. at a fixed rate of 5.375 per cent until 14 July 2020 when variable rate interest of 3 month Libor plus 189 bps will be paid.
These On 3 February 2005, the Group issued 750 million subordinated notes have been consolidated and form a single series with the Lower Tier II notes Euro Notes at an issue price of 99.43 per 400 million notes issued on 17 June 2005. cent and $500 million of subordinated Lower Tier II notes Dollar notes at an issue price of 99.86 per cent.
On 21 October 2005 at par, the Group called $325 million Floating Rate Notes 2005 2010 on the first call date.
The Euro notes will mature on 3 February 2017 and are callable on 3 February 2012 and at each subsequent interest date.
SCB Botswana issued BWP 50 million subordinated floating Interest is payable annually on the Euro notes at a fixed rate of rate notes in December 2005 which have a final redemption in 3.625 per cent until 3 February 2012 when a variable rate of December 2015, although early redemption in whole or in part by interest of 3 month Euribor plus 87 bps will be paid.
the issuer is available but only after five years and one day from the issue date.
The Dollar notes will mature on 3 February 2015 and are callable on 4 February 2010 and at each subsequent interest date.
On 9 December 2005, the Group issued $500m Floating Rate Interest is payable quarterly on the Dollar notes at a variable rate Subordinated Lower Tier 2 notes at an issue price of 99.854 per of $Libor plus 30 bps until 4 February 2010 when the rates will cent due 2016 with the first call date in June 2011.
Interest is increase to $Libor plus 80 bps.
payable quarterly on the notes at a floating rate of three months $Libor plus 30 bps until 8th June 2011 when floating interest rate Fair value of $1,280 million of subordinated liabilities was added of three month $Libor plus 80 bps will be paid.
with the acquisition of SCFB.
110 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 37.
Share Capital The authorised share capital of the Company at 31 December As at 31 December 2005, 328,388 $5 preference shares were 2005 was $4,857 million 2004: $5,137 million made up of 2,632 in issue.
The irredeemable preference shares of 1 each were million ordinary shares of $0.50 each, 500 million non-cumulative reclassified to other borrowed funds from 1 January 2005 upon irredeemable preference shares of 1 each, 300 million nonadoption of IAS 32. cumulative redeemable preference shares of $5 each and one million non-cumulative preference share of 1,000 each.
Group and Company Number of Ordinary share Preference Share premium ordinary shares capital share capital account Total millions $m $m $m $m At 1 January 2004 1,175 588 351 2,813 3,752 Exchange translation differences 26 26 Shares issued, net of expenses 4 2 15 17 Capitalised on exercise of share options 7 7 At 31 December 2004 1,179 590 377 2,835 3,802 Adoption of IAS 32 and 39 375 375 At 1 January 2005 1,179 590 2 2,835 3,427 Capitalised on scrip dividend 4 2 2 Shares issued, net of expenses 133 66 2,145 2,211 At 31 December 2005 1,316 658 2 4,978 5,638 On 14 January 2005, the Company issued 117,902,943 new On 13 May 2005, 2,522,654 ordinary shares were issued ordinary shares at a price of 920 pence per share representing instead of the 2004 final cash dividend.
On 14 October 2005, approximately 9.99 per cent of the Companys existing issued 1,735,708 ordinary shares were issued instead of the 2005 ordinary share capital.
The net proceeds of the placing were interim cash dividend.
The purpose of Post balance sheet date, on 12 January 2006, the Company the share issue was to aid the funding of the purchase of the issued 3,401,290 new ordinary shares at an average price of entire share capital of SCFB for approximately KRW 3.4 trillion 1301 pence per share representing approximately 0.26 per cent $3.3 billion in cash.
of the Companys existing issued ordinary share capital.
The On 16 February 2005, the Company repurchased 3,000 issue of ordinary shares was used to acquire 20 per cent of 8.9 per cent non-cumulative preference shares.
The preference Fleming Family & Partners Limited.
shares were repurchased at a premium of $3 million and were The holding of Standard Chartered PLC shares by the Groups cancelled.
The remaining 328,388 preference shares in issue share based award schemes is set out in note 40. have a nominal value of $2 million and are redeemable at the Companys option at a premium of $326 million.
Transaction costs deducted from share issues total $25 million 2004: $nil.
On 23 May 2005, the Company issued 11,700,000 new ordinary shares at a price of 985.6 pence per share GBP 115 million, $211 million to the Employee Benefit Trust towards satisfaction of the vested shares under the Companys discretionary share schemes.
A further 3,525,788 shares were issued for the purpose of the employee share schemes during 2005. www.
Reserves and Retained Earnings Group Capital Cash flow Premises Capital Redemption Available-forhedge revaluation Translation Retained Reserve Reserve sale reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million At 1 January 2004 5 11 57 4,122 4,195 Recognised income and expenses 19 96 1,578 1,693 Dividends 630 630 Net own shares adjustment 52 52 Capitalised on exercise of share options 7 7 At 31 December 2004 5 11 76 96 5,115 5,303 Adoption of IAS 32 and 39 73 42 36 151 Recognised income and expenses 50 62 90 1,865 1,663 23 20 90 1,901 1,814 Net own shares adjustment 73 73 Share option expense and related taxation 123 123 Dividends net scrip 712 712 Debt recognition premium 211 211 At 31 December 2005 5 11 23 20 76 6 6,143 6,244 The cumulative amounts of premiums on the acquisition Translation reserve represents the foreign exchange gains of subsidiary and associated undertakings written off and losses on translation of the net investment of its foreign against Group reserves since 1973 is $27 million 2004: operations.
Gains and losses are deferred to this reserve until such $27 million.
time the underlying foreign operation is disposed.
Gains and losses arising from derivatives used as hedges of net investments are Capital reserves represent the exchange difference on netted against the foreign exchange gains and losses on translation redenomination of share capital and share premium from sterling of the net investment of its foreign operations.
Retained earnings are the carried forward recognised income and Capital redemption reserve represents the repurchase of expenses of the Group plus current period recognised income preference shares.
and expenses less dividend distribution, treasury shares and Available-for-sale reserve is the fair value movement of financial share option expenses.
Gains and losses are Own shares held total 14,040,907 at 31 December 2005 deferred to this reserve until such time the underlying asset 2004: 12,306,768. is sold or matures.
A substantial part of the Groups reserves are held in overseas Cash flow hedge reserve is the fair value movement of derivatives subsidiary undertakings and branches principally to support local that meet the criteria of a cash flow hedge.
Gains and losses are operations or to comply with local regulations.
The maintenance deferred to this reserve until such time the underlying hedged of local regulatory capital ratios could potentially restrict the item affects profit and loss.
amount of reserves which can be remitted.
In addition, if these Premises revaluation represents revaluations made prior overseas reserves were to be remitted, further unprovided to the adoption of IFRS by the Group on 1 January 2004. taxation liabilities might arise.
112 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 38.
Reserves and Retained Earnings continued Company Capital Capital Redemption Retained Reserve Reserve earnings Total $million $million $million $million At 1 January 2004 5 11 616 632 Recognised income and expenses 663 663 Dividends 630 630 Net own shares adjustment 52 52 Capitalised on exercise of share options 7 7 At 31 December 2004 5 11 694 710 Adoption of IAS 32 and 39 Recognised income and expenses 798 798 798 798 Net own shares adjustment 73 73 Share option expense and related taxation 52 52 Dividends net scrip 712 712 At 31 December 2005 5 11 759 775 39.
Minority Interests 300m 8.103% $300m 200m Step-Up 7.267% 2022 Callable Hybrid Other Step-Up Perpetual Tier-1 minority Notes Trust Securities interests Total $million $million $million $million $million At 31 December 2004 previously published 964 964 Adoption of IAS 32 and 39 396 598 4 990 At 1 January 2005 396 598 960 1,954 Arising on acquisition 333 333 Appropriation in respect of exchange translation 43 64 1 108 Other profits attributable to minority interests 26 41 14 52 133 Recognised income and expenses 17 23 14 51 25 Distributions 26 42 11 39 118 Reductions 353 533 857 1,743 At 31 December 2005 336 115 451 On 30 December 2005, the terms and conditions of the Following additional investments in the Global Liquidity 200 million 2022 Step-Up notes and 300 million Step-Up Fund by third parties, the Groups interest is no longer Callable Perpetual Trust notes were modified with the approval of treated as a subsidiary and the minority interest has been the Trustees.
The effect of the modification is that the notes have reduced accordingly.
been reclassified from minority interests to subordinated liabilities In May 2005, the Group purchased a further 24.97 per cent and other borrowed funds at their market value on of Standard Chartered Nakornthon Bank Public Company 30 December 2005.
Thailand, reducing the other minority interest.
Share Based Payments The Group operates a number of share based payment schemes 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme for its directors and employees.
The 2000 scheme is designed to be internationally competitive and focus executive directors and their senior management teams on The total charge for the year relating to employee share based delivering long-term performance.
An EPS performance criterion payment plans was $78 million 2004: $55 million of which needs to be met before options can be exercised.
$64 million 2004: $45 million relates to equity settled awards and $14 million 2004: $10 million relates to cash settled Executive share options to purchase ordinary shares in the awards.
After deferred tax, the total charge was $68 million Company are exercisable after the third, but before the tenth, 2004: $48 million.
anniversary of the date of grant.
The exercise price per share is the share price at the date of grant and options can normally only 1997 Restricted Share Scheme be exercised if a performance condition is satisfied.
The Group operates a discretionary Restricted Share Scheme for high performing and high potential staff at any level of the 2001 Performance Share Plan organisation whom the Group wish to motivate and retain.
Except The Performance Share Plan is designed to be an intrinsic upon appointment when an executive director may be granted part of total remuneration for the Groups executive directors and an award of restricted shares, the Restricted Share Scheme for a small number of the groups most senior executives.
It is an is not applicable to executive directors, as it has no performance internationally competitive long-term incentive plan that focuses conditions attached to it.
50 per cent of the award vests two executives on meeting and exceeding the long-term performance years after the date of grant and the balance after three years.
The performance criteria which need to be The value of shares awarded in any year to any individual may met are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages not exceed two times their base salary.
Awards of nil price options to acquire shares are granted to the director and will normally be exercised between 1997 Supplemental Share Option Scheme closed three and ten years after the date of grant if the individual is still No awards have been made under this scheme since February employed by the Group.
There is provision for earlier exercise in 2000 and it is anticipated that no future grants will be made under certain limited circumstances.
it except in exceptional circumstances.
To be eligible for a grant under this scheme, participants had to retain a personal holding All Employee Sharesave Schemes of at least 10,000 shares, purchased at their own expense.
Under the UK and International Sharesave schemes, employees Options can only be exercised up to the fifth anniversary of the have the choice of opening a three-year or five-year savings grant date if, during the performance period: contract.
Within a period of six months after the third or fifth anniversary, as appropriate employees may purchase ordinary The share price over 20 consecutive days exceeds the shares in the Company.
The price at which they may purchase share price at the date of grant by at least 50 per cent plus RPI: shares is at a discount of up to 20 per cent on the share and price at the date of invitation.
There are no performance EPS increases by at least 25 per cent plus RPI.
conditions attached to options granted under the all employee sharesave schemes.
Both conditions must be satisfied within five years of the date of grant.
In the event of a change of control, the Committee may In some countries in which the Group operates it is not possible deem the EPS target to have been met.
to operate sharesave schemes, typically because of securities law, regulatory or other similar issues.
In these countries the 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme closed Group offers an equivalent cash-based scheme to its employees.
No awards have been made under this scheme since August 1999 as the scheme was replaced by the 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme.
Executive share options to purchase ordinary shares in the Company are exercisable after the third, but before the tenth anniversary of the date of grant.
The exercise price is the share price at the date of grant and options can only be exercised if EPS increases by at least 15 per cent over three consecutive years.
114 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 40.
Share Based Payments continued 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme Valuation Options are valued using a Binomial option-pricing model.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: 2005 2004 Grant Date 14 June 9 March 14 September 4 March Share price at grant date 10.395 9.71 9.58 9.355 Exercise price 10.395 9.71 9.58 9.355 Shares granted 153,839 752,938 230,476 5,440,084 Vesting period years 3 3 3 3 Expected volatility % 30.9 31.6 30.9 32.3 30.9 35.6 30.9 35.8 Expected option life years 10 10 10 10 Risk free rate % 4.2 4.6 4.2 4.9 4.2 4.9 4.2 4.8 Expected dividends yield % 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.7 Fair value % 24.3 32.3 26.5 34.9 28.8 35.6 28.3 36.6 The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last term consistent with the assumed option life, where two amounts five years or five years prior to grant, where two amounts are are shown, the first relates to cash settled awards.
Where two fair shown, the first relates to cash settled awards.
The expected life values are quoted, the first relates to the grant date valuation of is the average expected period to exercise.
The risk free rate of equity settled awards and the second is 31 December 2005 return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a valuation of the cash settled awards.
A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 December 2005 is shown below: 2005 2004 Weighted Weighted average average No.
of shares exercise price No.
of shares exercise price Outstanding at 1 January 30,707,971 8.00 27,866,978 7.73 Granted 906,777 9.83 6,119,426 9.36 Lapsed 508,060 7.87 381,612 7.56 Exercised 7,472,028 7.99 2,896,821 8.60 Outstanding at 31 December 23,634,660 8.08 30,707,971 8.00 Exercisable at 31 December 8,303,114 8.21 4,763,342 9.00 2005 2004 Weighted average remaining life: Weighted average remaining life: Weighted Weighted average average Expected Contractual Expected Contractual exercise price No.
Share Based Payments continued 2001 Performance Share Plan Valuation For awards, the fair value is based on the market value less an adjustment to take into account the expected dividends over the vesting period.
2005 2004 Grant Date 20 September 9 March 9 June 4 March Share price at grant date 11.89 9.71 9.21 9.355 Shares granted 8,410 1,488,580 171,011 825,920 Vesting period years 3 3 3 3 Expected option life years 10 10 10 10 Expected dividends yield % 3.5 3.5 3.7 3.9 3.5 3.9 Fair value EPS % 90 90 90 90 Fair value TSR % 39 39 39 39 The expected dividend yield is based on historical dividend yield over the last three years or three years prior to grant.
Where two amounts are shown the first relates to cash settled awards.
The fair value shown is for both grant date valuation of equity settled awards and 31 December 2005 valuation of the cash settled awards.
of shares exercise price Outstanding at 1 January 3,066,957 2,633,736 Granted 1,505,589 1,000,025 Lapsed 199,379 272,402 Exercised 453,441 294,402 Outstanding at 31 December 3,919,726 3,066,957 Exercisable at 31 December 390,792 86,928 2005 2004 Weighted average remaining life: Weighted average remaining life: Weighted Weighted Expected Contractual Expected Contractual average average Range of exercise price exercise price No.
of shares years years exercise price No.
of shares years years n a 3,919,726 8.1 3,066,957 8.2 1997 Restricted Share Scheme Valuation For awards, the fair value is based on the market value less an adjustment to take into account the expected dividends over the vesting period.
2005 2004 Grant date 20 September 14 June 9 March 14 September 4 March Share price at grant date 11.89 10.395 9.71 9.58 9.355 Shares granted 427,472 36,335 2,431,561 222,976 1,162,789 Vesting period years 2 3 2 3 2 3 2 3 2 3 Expected option life years 7 7 7 7 7 Expected dividends yield % 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.5 4 3.5 3.9 Fair value % 90 90 92 90 92 90 91 90 91 The expected dividend yield is based on historical dividend yield over the last three years or three years prior to grant, where two amounts are shown, the first relates to cash settled awards.
Where two fair values are quoted, the first relates to 31 December 2005 valuation of the cash settled awards and the second relates to the grant date valuation of equity settled awards.
116 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 40.
Share Based Payments continued A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 December 2005 is shown below: 2005 2004 Weighted Weighted average average No.
of shares exercise price Outstanding at 1 January 5,396,020 5,562,480 Granted 2,993,901 1,603,121 Lapsed 235,377 278,383 Exercised 1,744,500 1,491,198 Outstanding at 31 December 6,410,044 5,396,020 Exercisable at 31 December 1,613,044 1,477,020 2005 2004 Weighted average remaining life: Weighted average remaining life: Weighted Weighted Expected Contractual Expected Contractual average average exercise price No.
of shares Range of exercise price years years years years n a 6,410,044 4.6 5,396,020 4.6 2004 UK and International Sharesave Valuation Options are valued using a Binomial option-pricing model.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: 2005 2004 Grant Date 20 September 8 September 14 September 8 September Share price at grant date 11.89 12.25 9.58 9.70 Exercise price 9.87 9.87 7.43 7.43 Shares granted 5,537,252 307,238 1,815,067 232,956 Vesting period years 3 5 3 5 3 5 3 5 Expected volatility % 21 31 25 31 17 36 33 36 Expected option life years 3.33 5.33 3.33 5.33 3.33 5.33 3.33 5.33 Risk free rate % 4.2 4.1 4.2 4.9 4.9 Expected dividends yield % 3.5 3.7 3.5 3.7 3.1 3.9 3.4 3.9 Fair value % 24 33 24 31 31 42 31 37 The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last over the last three years or three years prior to grant, where two three to five years or three to five years prior to grant, where two amounts are shown, the first relates to cash settled awards.
amounts are shown, the first relates to cash settled awards.
The Where two fair values are quoted, the first relates to the grant expected life is the average expected period to exercise.
The risk date valuation of equity settled awards and the second is 31 free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government December 2005 valuation of the cash settled awards.
All options bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life, where granted on 8 September 2005 and 8 September 2004 are equity two amounts are quoted, the first relates to equity settled awards.
The expected dividends yield is based on historical dividend yield www.
of shares exercise price Outstanding at 1 January 2,375,938 7.43 Granted 5,902,540 9.87 2,432,949 7.43 Lapsed 382,193 7.80 57,011 7.43 Exercised 3,772 7.43 Outstanding at 31 December 7,892,513 9.24 2,375,938 7.43 Exercisable at 31 December 2005 2004 Weighted average remaining life: Weighted average remaining life: Weighted Weighted Expected Contractual Expected Contractual average average exercise price No.
of shares Range of exercise price years years years years 7.43 9.87 9.24 7,892,513 3.33 5.33 3.6 7.43 2,375,938 3.33 5.33 3.6 Shares of the Group held for the beneficiaries of the Groups share based payment schemes Bedell Cristin Trustees Limited is trustee of both the 1995 Groups Restricted Share Scheme, Performance Share Plan and Employees Share Ownership Plan Trust the 1995 trust, which Executive Shares Option Schemes.
The purchase of these shares is an employee benefit trust used in conjunction with some of the has been fully funded by the Group.
At 31 December 2005, the Groups employee share schemes, and the Standard Chartered 1995 trust held 13,631,745 31 December 2004: 12,127,841 2004 Employee Benefit Trust the 2004 trust which is an employee shares, of which 11,521,682 31 December 2004: 11,854,754 benefit trust used in conjunction with the Groups deferred bonus have vested unconditionally.
The trustee has agreed to satisfy a number of awards made The 2004 trust has acquired, at market value, 422,659 31 under the employee share schemes and the deferred bonus plan December 2004: 178,926 Standard Chartered PLC shares, through the relevant employee benefit trust.
As part of these which are held in a pool for the benefit of participants under the arrangements Group companies fund, from time to time, the trust Groups deferred bonus plan.
The purchase of these shares has to enable the trustee to acquire shares to satisfy these awards.
been fully funded by the Group.
At 31 December 2005, the 2004 trust held 409,160 31 December 2004: 178,926 Standard The 1995 trust has acquired 11,700,000 31 December 2004: Chartered PLC shares, of which 7,333 31 December 2004: nil 8,220,000 Standard Chartered PLC shares from the Company have vested unconditionally.
which are held in a pool for the benefit of participants under the 118 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 41.
Cash and Cash Equivalents For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following balances with less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition.
Group Company 2005 2004 2005 2004 $million $million $million $million Cash and balances at central banks 8,012 3,961 Less restricted balances 4,269 1,860 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 4,049 3,666 Loans and advances to banks 17,590 10,292 Trading securities 9,844 6,053 Amounts owed by and due to subsidiary undertakings 1,590 1,603 Total 35,226 22,112 1,590 1,603 42.
Capital Commitments Capital expenditure approved by the directors but not provided for in these accounts amounted to: 2005 2004 $million $million Contracted 5 6 Not contracted 2 2 43.
Operating Lease Commitments 2005 2004 Premises Premises Equipment Equipment $million $million $million $million Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring: Within one year 92 4 82 3 Later than one year and less than five years 179 3 153 4 After five years 153 77 424 7 312 7 During the year $93 million 2004: $93 million was recognised as an expense in the income statement in respect of operating leases.
The Group leases various premises and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The total future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases at 31 December 2005 is $17 million 2004: $21 million.
Contingent Liabilities and Commitments The table below shows the contract or underlying principal The credit equivalent and risk weighted amounts have been amounts, credit equivalent amounts and risk weighted amounts calculated in accordance with the Financial Services Authority of unmatured off-balance sheet transactions at the balance sheet guidelines implementing the Basel Accord on capital adequacy, date.
The contract or underlying principal amounts indicate the after taking account of collateral and guarantees received.
volume of business outstanding and do not represent amounts at risk.
2005 2004 Contract or Contract or underlying Credit Risk underlying Credit Risk principal equivalent weighted principal equivalent weighted amount amount amount amount amount amount $million $million $million $million $million $million Contingent liabilities Acceptances and endorsements 976 976 842 Guarantees and irrevocable letters of credit 15,952 11,106 7,704 15,942 9,976 8,146 Other contingent liabilities 6,295 5,134 2,995 3,139 2,414 1,221 22,247 16,240 10,699 20,057 13,366 10,209 Commitments Documentary credits and short term traderelated transactions 3,730 746 572 2,924 585 494 Forward asset purchases and forward deposits placed 141 141 28 54 54 11 Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend: One year and over 11,128 5,564 3,956 9,140 4,570 4,133 Less than one year 18,690 8,903 Unconditionally cancellable 28,705 25,933 62,394 6,451 4,556 46,954 5,209 4,638 Acceptances and endorsements are recorded on balance sheet with the adoption of IAS 39.
Repurchase and Reverse Repurchase Agreements The Group enters into collateralised reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements as part of credit and funding arrangements.
Balance sheet assets 2005 2004 Reverse Reverse repurchase repurchase agreements agreements $million $million Banks 1,267 924 Customers 185 139 1,452 1,063 Balance sheet liabilities 2005 2004 Repurchase Repurchase agreements agreements $million $million Banks 961 1,203 Customers 964 1,001 1,925 2,204 120 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 45.
Repurchase and Reverse Repurchase Agreements continued Under reverse repurchase and securities borrowing arrangements, the Group obtains securities on terms which permit it to repledge or resell the securities to others.
Amounts on such terms are: 2005 2004 $million $million Securities and collateral which can be repledged or sold at fair value 1,434 1,014 Thereof repledged transferred to others for financing activities or to satisfy commitments under short sale transactions at fair value 629 46.
Interest Rate Risk This table shows the extent to which the Groups interest rate Items are allocated to time bands by reference to the earlier of the exposures on assets and liabilities are matched but does not take next contractual interest rate repricing date and maturity date.
into account the currency of the exposure or the effect of interest The risk section of the Financial Review on pages 28 to 36 rate options used by the Group to hedge these exposures.
The explains the Groups and Companys risk management with Group and Company uses derivatives to manage effective interest respect to asset and liability management and is incorporated rates whether or not hedge accounting is achieved.
In particular in these financial statements accordingly.
they use interest rate swaps to exchange fixed rates of interest for floating rates of interest.
The 2004 table is in accordance with UK GAAP.
Financial assets and liabilities with fixed interest total $49,370 million 2004: $33,908 million and $16,283 million 2004: $9,725 million respectively.
$1,558 million 2004: $1,588 million is at floating rates maturing over five years.
$343 million 2004: $nil is fixed rate maturing over five years.
The effective yield is 4.8 per cent 2004: 2.3 per cent.
Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 122 Notes to the Accounts continued 47.
Liquidity Risk The risk section of the Financial Review on pages 28 to 36 This table analyses assets and liabilities into relevant maturity explains the Groups and Companys risk management with groupings based on the remaining period at balance sheet date respect to asset and liability management and is incorporated to the contractual maturity date.
Contractual maturities do not in these financial statements accordingly.
necessarily reflect actual repayments or cash flow.
Currency Risk This table shows the extent to which the Groups exposure to foreign currency risk at 31 December 2005.
The risk section of the Financial Review on pages 28 to 36 explains the Groups and Companys risk management with respect to asset and liability management and is incorporated in these financial statements accordingly.
It has assets of $254 million 2004: $326 million and liabilities of $282 million 2004: $477 million other than US dollars.
Groups structural currency exposures for 2004 under UK GAAP were: Borrowing in functional Structural Net investments currency of units currency in overseas units being hedged exposure $ million $million $million Hong Kong dollar 2,920 2,920 Singapore dollar 1,080 1,080 British pound 952 952 Indian rupee 650 650 Malaysia ringgit 509 509 Other non US dollar 1,742 1,742 7,853 952 6,901 Structural currency exposures for 2004 relate to net investments In 2005, the major changes were the elimination of British in non US dollar units.
pound structural exposure and an increase in the Korean won subsequent to the acquisition of SCFB.
These currency The Groups main operations in non US dollar units were Asia, exposures are referred to as structural.
Translation gains and Africa, India and the United Kingdom.
The main operating or losses arising from these exposures are recognised in the functional currencies of its overseas business units therefore Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expenses.
include Hong Kong dollar, Malaysian ringgit, Singapore dollar, Indian rupee and British pound.
The Group prepares its The risk section of the Financial Review on pages 28 to 36 consolidated financial statements in US dollars, and the Groups explains the risk management with respect to the Groups consolidated balance sheet is affected by movements in the hedging policies.
exchange rates between functional currencies and US dollars.
124 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 49.
Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities The following table summarises the carrying amounts and fair values of those financial assets and liabilities not presented on the Groups balance sheet at fair value.
2005 Book amount Fair value $million $million Assets Cash and balances at central banks 8,012 8,012 Loans and advances to banks 21,671 21,671 Loans and advances to customers 111,686 111,863 Investment securities held to maturity 1,479 1,470 Liabilities Deposits by banks 18,834 18,834 Customer accounts 119,931 119,922 Debt securities in issue 25,913 25,883 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 10,349 10,543 2004 Book amount Fair value $million $million Treasury bills and other eligible bills investment 4,189 4,188 Debt securities and other fixed income securities 24,709 24,740 Equity shares and other variable yield investments 253 295 Derivative assets non-trading book 50 Derivative liabilities non-trading book 37 Financial liabilities 12,013 11,833 The following sets out the Groups basis of establishing fair values Deposits and borrowings of the financial instruments shown above and derivatives and The estimated fair value of deposits with no stated maturity is the available-for-sale assets presented in notes 13,15,16,17 and 21. amount repayable on demand.
The estimated fair value of fixed interest bearing deposits and other borrowings without quoted Cash and balances at central banks market price is based on discounting cash flows using the The fair value of cash and balances at central banks is their prevailing market rates for debts with a similar credit risk and carrying amounts.
Loans and advances to banks Debt securities in issue, subordinated liabilities and other The fair value of floating rate placements and overnight deposits borrowed funds is their carrying amounts.
The estimated fair value of fixed interest The aggregate fair values are calculated based on quoted market bearing deposits is based on discounted cash flows using the prices.
For those notes where quoted market prices are not prevailing money-market rates for debts with a similar credit risk available, a discounted cash flow model is used based on a and remaining maturity.
current yield curve appropriate for the remaining term to maturity.
Loans and advances to customers Derivatives Loans and advances are net of provisions for impairment.
Forward exchange contracts are either marked to market using The estimated fair value of loans and advances represents the listed market prices or by discounting the contractual forward discounted amount of estimated future cash flows expected to be price and deducting the current spot rate.
For interest rate swaps received.
Expected cash flows are discounted at current market broker quotes are used.
Those quotes are back tested using rates to determine fair value.
pricing models or discounted cash flow techniques.
Investment securities Where discounted cash flow techniques are used, estimated Investment securities, including debt and equity securities, with future cash flows are based on managements best estimates observable market prices are fair valued using that information.
and the discount rate is a market related rate for a similar Equity instruments held that do not have observable market data instrument at the balance sheet date.
Where other pricing models are presented at cost.
Debt securities that do not have are used, inputs are based on market related data at the balance observable market data are fair valued by either discounting cash sheet date.
flows using the prevailing market rates for debts with a similar credit risk and remaining maturity or using quoted market prices for securities with similar credit, maturity and yield characteristics.
Market Risk Trading book 2005 2004 Average High Low Actual Average High Low Actual $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Daily value at risk: Interest rate risk 4.0 5.5 3.1 3.9 3.3 4.4 2.2 3.4 Foreign exchange risk 1.5 2.8 1.0 1.1 2.4 4.5 1.2 3.0 Total 4.3 5.9 3.3 3.9 4.2 6.0 3.1 5.1 This note should be read in conjunction with the market risk The Group recognises that there are limitations to the VaR section of the Financial Review on page 35 which explains the methodology.
These limitations include the fact that the historic Groups market risk management and is incorporated in these data may not be the best proxy for future price movements, either financial statements accordingly.
because the observation period does not include representative price movements or, in some cases, because of incomplete The Group measures the risk of losses arising from future market data.
potential adverse movements in interest and exchange rates, prices and volatilities using a VaR methodology.
The Group uses The Group performs regular back-testing, where actual profits historic simulation as its VaR methodology.
and losses are compared with VaR estimates to track the statistical validity of the VaR Model.
The total Group Trading book VaR shown in the table above is not a sum of the interest rate and exchange rate risks due to VaR is calculated as the Groups exposure as at the close of offset.
The highest and lowest VaR are independent and could business, London time.
Intra-day risk levels may vary from those have occurred on different days.
reported at the end of the day.
VaR is calculated for expected movements over a minimum Losses beyond the confidence interval are not captured by a VaR of one business day and to a confidence level of 97.5 per cent.
calculation, which therefore gives no indication of the size of This confidence level suggests that potential daily losses, in unexpected losses in these situations.
To manage the risk arising excess of the VaR measure, are likely to be experienced six from events, which the VaR methodology does not capture, the times per year.
Group regularly stress tests its main market risk exposures.
Stress testing involves valuing portfolios at prices, which assume extreme The historic simulation method is used with an observation changes in risk factors beyond the range of normal experience.
period of one year and involves the revaluation of all unmatured Positions that would give rise to potentially significant losses under contracts to reflect the effect of historically observed changes in a low probability stress event are reviewed by the GRC.
market risk factors on the valuation of the current portfolio.
Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 126 Notes to the Accounts continued 51.
Related Party Transactions Directors and officers Directors emoluments Details of directors pay and benefits and interests in shares are disclosed in the directors remuneration report on pages 49 to 61.
IAS 24 Related party disclosures requires the following additional information for key management compensation.
Key management comprises members of the Group Management Committee, which includes all executive directors.
2005 2004 $million $million Salaries, allowances and benefits in kind 13 11 Pension contributions 1 1 Bonuses paid or receivable 17 14 Share based payments 12 11 43 37 Transactions with directors, officers and others At 31 December 2005, the total amounts to be disclosed under the Companies Act 1985 the Act and the Listing Rules of the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong about loans to directors and officers were as follows: 2005 2004 Number $000 Number $000 Directors 2 22 Officers 2 261 2 260 For this disclosure, the term officers means the members of the Group Management Committee, other than those who are directors of Standard Chartered PLC, and the company secretary.
On 27 August 2004, Standard Chartered Links HK Limited, There were no other transactions, arrangements or agreements a wholly owned subsidiary of Standard Chartered PLC, outstanding for any director, connected person or officer of the completed the acquisition of the entire issued share capital of Company which have to be disclosed under the Act, the rules Advantage Limited from Goland Investment Limited, Winsgreat of the UK Listing Authority or the Listing Rules of the Stock Limited a wholly owned subsidiary of Sun Hung Kai Properties Exchange of Hong Kong.
Limited SHK and Warshall Holdings Limited.
Joint ventures Mr Raymond Kwok, one of the directors of Standard Chartered The Group has loans and advances to PT Bank Permata Tbk Bank Hong Kong Limited a wholly owned subsidiary of totalling $28 million at 31 December 2005 2004: $35 million.
Standard Chartered PLC, is deemed to be interested within Associates the meaning of the Hong Kong Securities and Futures On 15 August 2005, the Group contributed $128 million to Ordinance in 44.96 per cent of the shares in SHK, which China Bohai Bank Limited for its 19.99 per cent investment.
in turn owns all the shares in Winsgreat Limited.
Accordingly, Winsgreat is an associate of Mr Kwok and the acquisition Company of Winsgreats shares in Advantage Limited is a connected The Company issues debt externally and lends the proceeds transaction for Standard Chartered PLC.
At 31 December 2005 it has loans and debt instruments issued to Standard Chartered Bank On 16 December 2005, Standard Chartered Bank created of $1,796 million, $40 million to SC Holdings Limited and a charge over $11 million of cash assets in favour of the $3 million to other subsidiaries.
independent trustees of its employer financed retirement benefit schemes.
During the year the Company licensed intellectual property rights related to the Companys main brands for $1,465 million over a period of 10 years to a newly formed, indirect wholly owned subsidiary, Standard Chartered Strategic Brand Management Limited.
At the year end $1,453 million 2004: $nil has been included as deferred income in the Company balance sheet in relation to this.
Transition to EU adopted IFRS In January 2006 the Company issued 3,401,290 new ordinary EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 requires that the annual shares at a price of 1301 pence per share representing consolidated financial statements of the company, for the year approximately 0.26 per cent of the Companys existing issued ending 31 December 2005, be prepared in accordance with ordinary share capital.
The issue of ordinary shares was used International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted to acquire 20 per cent of Fleming Family & Partners Limited.
for use in the EU adopted IFRSs.
On 2 March 2006 a dividend of 45.06 cents per share This financial information has been prepared on the basis of the was recommended.
recognition and measurement requirements of IFRSs in issue that are endorsed by the EU and effective or available for early 53.
Significant Accounting Estimates and Judgements adoption at 31 December 2005, the Group's first annual In determining the carrying amounts of some assets and reporting date at which it is required to use adopted IFRSs.
liabilities, the Group makes assumptions of the affects of Application of IFRS 1: First-time adoption of International uncertain future events on those assets and liabilities at the Financial Reporting standards balance sheet date.
The Groups estimates and assumptions The Groups transition date is 1 January 2004.
The Group are based on historical experience and expectation of future prepared its opening IFRS balance sheet at that date.
events and are reviewed periodically.
This disclosure excludes uncertainty over future events and judgements in respect of In preparing these consolidated financial statements in measuring financial instruments.
accordance with IFRS 1, the Group has applied the mandatory exceptions and certain of the optional exemptions from full Pensions retrospective application of IFRS.
Actuarial assumptions are made in valuing future pension obligations as set out in note 35.
There is uncertainty that Exemptions from full retrospective application elected these assumptions will continue in the future.
They are by the Group updated periodically.
The Group has elected to apply the following optional exemptions from full retrospective application.
Taxes Determining income tax provisions involves judgement on a Business combinations exemption the future tax treatment of certain transactions.
Deferred The Group has applied the business combinations exemption tax is recognised on tax losses not yet used and temporary in IFRS 1.
It has not restated business combinations that took differences where it is probable that there will be taxable place prior to the 1 January 2004 transition date.
revenue against which it can be offset.
Management has b Fair value as deemed cost exemption made judgements as to the probability of tax losses being The Group has elected to deem as cost certain items available for offset at a later date.
of property, plant and equipment held at valuation as at Provisions for liabilities and charges 1 January 2004.
The Group receives legal claims against it in the normal c Cumulative translation differences exemption course of business.
Management has made judgements as The Group has elected to set the previously accumulated to the likelihood of any claim succeeding in making provisions.
cumulative translation to zero at 1 January 2004.
The time of concluding legal claims is uncertain, as is the amount of possible outflow of economic benefits.
Timing and d Exemption from restatement of comparatives for IAS 32 cost ultimately depends on the due process in respective and IAS 39 legal jurisdictions.
The Group elected to apply this exemption.
It has applied previous UK GAAP rules to derivatives, financial assets and 54.
Forward Looking Statements financial liabilities and to hedging relationships for the 2004 comparative information.
The adjustments required for This document contains forward-looking statements, including differences between UK GAAP and IAS 32 and IAS 39 have such statements within the meaning of section 27A of the been determined and recognised at 1 January 2005.
US Securities Act of 1993 and section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
These statements concern, or may e Share-based payment transaction exemption affect, future matters.
These may include the Groups future As the Group has not previously published information strategies, business plans, and results and are based on the regarding the fair value of employee rewards, it has been current expectations of the directors of Standard Chartered.
required to apply the share-based payment exemption.
It applied IFRS 2 from 1 January 2004 to those equity settled They are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that share awards that were issued after 7 November 2002 but might cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially that have not vested by 1 January 2005. from expectations outlined in these forward-looking statements.
These factors are not limited to regulatory developments but Exceptions from full retrospective application followed include stock markets, IT developments, competitive and by the Group general operating conditions.
The Group has applied the following mandatory exceptions from retrospective application.
128 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 55.
Transition to EU Adopted IFRS continued Reconciliations between IFRS and UK GAAP The following reconciliations provide details of the impact of the f Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities exception transition on: Financial assets and liabilities derecognised before 1 January 2004 are not re-recognised under IFRS.
The application of the profit for the year ended excluding IAS 32 39 exemption from restating comparatives for IAS 32 and IAS 39 31 December 2004 means that the Group recognised from 1 January 2005 any equity at 1 January 2004 excluding IAS 32 39 financial assets and financial liabilities derecognised since 1 January 2004 that do not meet the IAS 39 derecognition criteria.
equity at 31 December 2004 excluding IAS 32 39 Management did not chose to apply the IAS 39 derecognition balance sheet at excluding IAS 32 39 criteria to an earlier date.
31 December 2004 g Estimates exception equity at 1 January 2005 including IAS 32 39 Estimates under IFRS at 1 January 2004 should be consistent with estimates made for the same date under previous UK GAAP, An explanation of the adjustments and the Groups accounting unless there is evidence that those estimates were in error.
policies under IFRS is set out in the presentation and press release entitled Standard Chartered PLC Results for 2004 Restated Under International Financial Reporting Standards dated 12 May 2005.
Copies of this document are available from the Groups website at: http: investors.
com Reconciliation of profit for the year ended 31 December 2004 Group Effect of transition UK GAAP IFRS to IFRS Notes $million $million $million a Interest income 5,232 80 5,312 a Interest expense 2,064 66 2,130 Net interest income 3,168 14 3,182 b Other finance income 10 10 a Fees and commissions income 1,617 3 1,614 a Fees and commissions expense 283 1 282 a Net trading income 648 3 651 b Other operating income 207 10 217 2,189 11 2,200 Operating income 5,367 15 5,382 c Staff costs 1,534 25 1,559 Premises costs 321 321 b Other administrative expenses 721 10 731 d Depreciation and amortisation 420 182 238 Operating expenses 2,996 147 2,849 Operating profit before impairment losses and taxation 2,371 162 2,533 Impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit risk provisions 214 214 e Income from joint ventures 2 2 d Other impairment 1 67 68 Profit before taxation 2,158 93 2,251 f Taxation 637 7 630 Profit for the year 1,521 100 1,621 www.
Transition to EU Adopted IFRS continued Reconciliation of profit for the year ended 31 December 2004 Group and Company Group Company Notes $million $million UK GAAP 1,521 663 Goodwill d 114 Share options c 23 Consolidations a 4 Tax f 7 Other 2 IFRS 1,621 663 d Goodwill a Consolidations IFRS does not permit the amortisation of goodwill.
Instead an A fund in which the Group has an investment was not required to annual review for impairment must be made.
Goodwill amortised be consolidated under UK GAAP but is consolidated line by line under UK GAAP of $181 million was reversed.
Operating income and expenses increase by $9 goodwill amortisation relating to Banco Standard Chartered in million and $5 million respectively.
Latin America and the Lebanon.
The amortisation of the carrying b Reclassification amount of this goodwill was expected to be fully amortised by Under FRS 17 the finance cost of assets was recorded as Other 2005 under UK GAAP.
In the 2004 IFRS comparatives, an finance income.
$10 million has been reclassified to Other impairment charge of $67 million has been recorded to carry operating income.
c Share awards e Joint venture IFRS 2 requires the fair valuation of all share based payments for The Group adopted proportionate consolidation of its joint those awards made after November 2002 and had not vested at venture instead of equity accounting that was required under 1 January 2005.
This increased staff costs by $23 million of the UK GAAP.
f Tax The tax effect of the above adjustments has been recorded in the taxation line of the income statement.
Reconciliation of equity at 1 January 2004 Group Capital and capital Own shares Share capital and redemption Premises held in ESOP Retained Minority share premium reserve revaluation Trusts earnings interest Total equity Notes $million $million $million $million $million $million $million UK GAAP 3,752 16 2 60 3,823 614 8,143 i Dividends 439 439 ii Fixed assets 81 84 3 iii Share awards 3 3 iv Consolidation 25 6 31 v Tax 22 9 31 Other 9 9 IFRS 3,752 16 57 60 4,182 620 8,567 130 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 55.
Transition to EU Adopted IFRS continued Reconciliation of equity at 31 December 2004 Group Capital and Share capital capital Own shares and share redemption Premises held in ESOP Retained Minority premium reserve revaluation Trusts earnings interest Total equity Notes $million $million $million $million $million $million $million UK GAAP 3,802 16 5 8 4,630 956 9,391 Dividends i 532 532 Goodwill vi 114 114 Fixed assets ii 81 84 3 Share options iii 16 16 Consolidation iv 27 8 35 Tax v 4 4 Other 12 12 IFRS 3,802 16 76 8 5,219 964 10,069 Reconciliation of balance sheet at 31 December 2004 Group Effect of transition Reclassification UK GAAP to IFRS IFRS to IFRS format IFRS Notes $million $million $million $million $million Assets Cash and balances at central banks iv, vii 2,269 1,691 3,960 3,960 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 4,425 4,425 4,425 Financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss 4,744 4,744 Loans and advances to banks iv, vii 18,922 1,540 17,382 695 16,687 Loans and advances to customers iv 71,596 563 72,159 140 72,019 Investment securities iv 28,295 4,547 32,842 769 33,611 Equity shares 253 253 253 Interest in joint ventures iv 187 187 Intangible assets ii, iv, vi 1,900 453 2,353 2,353 Property, plant and equipment ii, iv 844 289 555 555 Deferred tax assets 276 4 272 46 318 Other assets ii, iv 11,453 144 11,597 11,597 Prepayments and accrued income iv 1,268 12 1,280 1,280 Total assets 141,688 5,390 147,078 46 147,124 Liabilities Deposits by banks iv 15,813 1 15,814 652 15,162 Customer accounts iv 84,572 886 85,458 365 85,093 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 2,392 2,392 Debt securities in issue iv 7,378 4,249 11,627 622 11,005 Current tax liabilities 295 295 295 Other liabilities i, iv 16,066 524 15,542 753 14,789 Accruals and deferred income iii, iv 1,262 59 1,321 1,321 Provisions for liabilities and charges iv 59 2 61 61 Retirement benefit liabilities iv 120 3 123 46 169 Other borrowed funds iv 6,732 36 6,768 6,768 Total liabilities 132,297 4,712 137,009 46 137,055 Total parent company shareholders equity 8,435 670 9,105 9,105 Minority interests 956 8 964 964 Total equity 9,391 678 10,069 10,069 Total equity and liabilities 141,688 5,390 147,078 46 147,124 www.
Transition to EU Adopted IFRS continued i Dividends v Tax IFRS only permits the accrual of dividend liabilities when an The tax effect of the above adjustments has been recorded.
obligation arises i. e. when declared.
Under UK GAAP the final vi Goodwill dividend was accrued in the period to which it related even if IFRS does not permit the amortisation of goodwill.
Instead an declared after year end.
The effect is to reverse the final dividend annual review for impairment must be made.
Goodwill amortised accrual of $532 million at 31 December 2004 and $439 million under UK GAAP of $181 million was reversed.
This included at 1 January 2004. goodwill amortisation relating to Banco Standard Chartered in ii Fixed assets Latin America and the Standard Chartered Bank SAL in the Capitalised software was classified as fixed assets under UK Lebanon.
The amortisation of the carrying amount of this goodwill GAAP.
$224 million was reclassified to intangible assets under was expected to fully amortised by 2005 under UK GAAP.
2004 IFRS comparatives, an impairment charge of $67 million has been recorded to carry related goodwill at $nil.
Under UK GAAP land associated with finance leased buildings was classified as fixed assets.
IFRS requires leased land to be vii Cash and cash equivalents treated as an operating lease unless title transfers at the end $1,614 million of restricted cash balances with central banks has of the lease.
$85 million was reclassified from fixed assets to been reclassified from loans and advances to banks to cash and other assets.
It also includes cheques in the course of collection.
iii Share awards IFRS 2 requires the fair valuation of all share based payments Reclassification for those awards made after November 2002 and had not vested On 12 May 2005 the Group presented its balance sheet restated at 1 January 2004.
It also requires obligations to be recorded in under IFRS excluding IAS 32 and 39.
The format of the balance equity for equity-settled awards rather than as liabilities.
sheet was similar to that used under UK GAAP.
Subsequent Accordingly, the obligations recorded in liabilities under UK GAAP clarification of the conventions of presenting balance sheets have been reversed and replaced with credits to equity for fair means the Group has made the following changes between lines values determined under IFRS 2. no measurement changes have been made : iv Consolidation trading assets and assets designated as at fair value have UK GAAP permitted the presentation of certain securitisations been grouped in a single line called financial assets at fair value in a linked net manner and a fund in which the Group has an through profit or loss: investment was not required to be consolidated.
IFRS does not treasury bills and equity shares have been included in permit net linked presentation and the investment fund was line investment securities if held at amortised cost or financial by line consolidated.
assets at fair value through profit or loss: The Group adopted proportionate consolidation of its joint trading liabilities and liabilities designated as at fair value have venture in place of equity accounting that was required under been grouped in a single line called financial liabilities at fair UK GAAP.
value through profit or loss: and Total assets increase by $5,281 million and total equity increased deferred tax related to retirement benefits is now not netted by $16 million.
with the retirement benefits liability and is now shown together with all other deferred tax balances.
132 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 55.
Transition to EU Adopted IFRS continued Reconciliation of equity at 1 January 2005 Group The Group has taken advantage of the transitional arrangements of IFRS 1 not to restate corresponding amounts in accordance with IAS 32 and 39.
The table below shows the effects of IAS 32 and 39 on the balance sheet at 1 January 2005: Share capital premium and Cash flow redemption AFS hedge Premises Retained Minority reserve reserves reserve revaluation earnings interest Total equity Notes $million $million $million $million $million $million $million IFRS excluding IAS 32 39 3,818 76 5,211 964 10,069 Debt equity i 375 20 994 639 Effective yield ii 109 109 Derivatives hedging iii 61 58 4 115 Asset classification fair values iv 87 27 60 Other 102 102 Impairment v 33 33 Tax vi 14 19 55 88 IFRS 3,443 73 42 76 5,247 1,954 10,835 Reconciliation of balance sheet items at 1 January 2005 - Group IFRS Effect of ex IAS 32 39 IAS 32 39 IFRS $million $million $million Assets Financial assets held at fair value 4,744 3,222 7,966 Derivative financial instruments 12,680 12,680 Loans and advances to banks 16,687 179 16,508 Loans and advances to customers 72,019 88 72,107 Investment securities 33,611 1,783 31,828 Other assets 11,597 7,440 4,157 Liabilities Deposits by banks 15,162 15,162 Customer accounts 85,093 320 84,773 Financial liabilities at fair value 2,392 1,316 3,708 Derivative financial instruments 12,024 12,024 Debt securities in issue 11,005 2 11,007 Current tax liabilities 295 1 296 Other liabilities 14,789 7,262 7,527 Accruals and deferred income 1,321 6 1,327 Provisions for liabilities and charges 61 61 Other borrowed funds 6,768 649 6,119 www.
Transition to EU Adopted IFRS continued i Debt equity UK GAAP permitted netting of assets and liabilities where there 3 1 The Groups 100 million 7 8 and 100 million 8 4 per cent was a legal right of offset.
IFRS adds a condition that there must irredeemable 1 preference shares were reclassified from equity be an intention to settle net.
The balance sheet has been grossed to subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds.
At the same up where the netting requirements are not satisfied.
A significant time 200 million 7.75 per cent Step-Up Notes 2022 and 300 part of this is in the derivatives line where $7.6 billion was grossed million 8.103 per cent Step-Up Callable Perpetual Trust Preferred up on transition.
Securities were reclassified as minority interests.
iv Asset classification fair values ii Effective yield On transition, IFRS permits designation of assets previously held Loan origination costs that are expensed under UK GAAP have at cost as available-for-sale or held at fair value through profit been capitalised and are amortised as part of the effective yield.
Reclassified assets have been revalued to fair value with the gains on available for sale assets deferring to reserves until iii Derivatives maturity or sale and the losses on held at fair value through profit All derivatives are now recorded on balance sheet at fair value.
or loss to reserves on transition and to profit or loss thereafter.
Unrealised gains and losses that were not recognised under UK GAAP have been adjusted in reserves.
v Impairment IFRS requires a time-value of money discount to be recorded on Trading derivative balances have been reclassified from other impaired loans.
It does not permit general bad debt provisions, assets and liabilities under UK GAAP to a single derivatives line which has been replaced with a portfolio impairment provision.
on the face of the balance sheet.
vi Tax The tax effect of the above adjustments has been recorded in the taxation line of the income statement.
Reconciliation of equity at 1 January 2004 Company Share capital Capital & and share redemption Revaluation Retained premium reserve reserve earnings Total equity Notes $million $million $million $million $million UK GAAP 3,752 16 3,476 285 7,529 Dividends i 439 439 Share options and own shares ii 71 71 Revaluation of investments in subsidiaries iii 3,476 3,476 Other 37 37 IFRS 3,752 16 616 4,384 Reconciliation of equity at 31 December 2004 Company Share capital Capital & and share redemption Revaluation Retained premium reserve reserve earnings Total equity Notes $million $million $million $million $million UK GAAP 3,802 16 4,408 209 8,435 Dividends i 532 532 Share options and own shares ii 71 71 Revaluation of investments in subsidiaries iii 4,408 4,408 Other 24 24 IFRS 3,802 16 694 4,512 134 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Accounts continued 55.
Transition to EU Adopted IFRS continued Reconciliation of balance sheet at 31 December 2004 Company 2004 2004 Effects of UK GAAP transition to IFRS IFRS $million $million $million Noncurrent assets Investments in subsidiary undertakings iii 10,240 5,948 4,292 Current assets Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings iii 631 1,590 2,221 Taxation 126 80 206 Other 7 7 757 1,677 2,434 Creditors: amounts due within one year Proposed dividend i 524 524 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings ii 442 176 618 Other creditors, including taxation 8 8 974 348 626 Net current liabilities assets 217 2,025 1,808 Total assets less current liabilities 10,023 3,923 6,100 Creditors: amounts due after more than one year Undated subordinated loan capital 1,588 1,588 8,435 3,923 4,512 Equity Share Capital and share premium 3,802 3,802 Reserves and retained earnings 4,633 3,923 710 Total equity 8,435 3,923 4,512 i Dividends Loans to subsidiaries of a capital nature have been reclassified IFRS only permits the accrual of dividend liabilities when an from investments in subsidiaries to amounts owed by subsidiaries.
Under UK GAAP the final dividend was accrued in the period to which it related even if Explanation of material adjustments to the cash declared after year end.
The effect is to reverse the final dividend flow statement accrual of $532 million at 31 December 2004 and $439 million at Under UK GAAP, the Company was not required to, and did not, 1 January 2004. prepare a cash flow statement.
Deposits with a maturity of less than three months, including loans to subsidiaries which are ii Share options and own shares repayable on demand, were excluded from cash under UK IFRS 2 requires the fair valuation of all share based payments for GAAP.
These are reclassified as cash equivalents under IFRSs.
those awards made after November 2002 and had not vested at 1 January 2004.
It also requires obligations to be recorded in Reconciliation of equity at 1 January 2005 Company equity for equity-settled awards rather than as liabilities.
All share The Company has taken advantage of the transitional based payments made in the Group are settled by reference to arrangements of IFRS 1 not to restate 2004 comparatives for the Companys ordinary shares.
Accordingly, the Company has IAS 32 and 39.
On 1 January 2005 the Companys 100 million recorded, on transition, an inter company receivable from 3 1 7 and 100 million 8 per cent irredeemable 1 preference 8 4 subsidiaries and a corresponding credit to reserves.
shares with a carrying amount of $375 million were reclassified All shares held under the Groups employee share schemes by from equity to subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds.
the Companys employee share ownership trusts are deducted from the Companys equity under IFRS.
iii Revaluation of investments in subsidiaries Under UK GAAP the Group held its investment in subsidiaries at their net asset value and recorded a revaluation reserve for adjustments.
This has been reversed under IFRS, returning the investment in subsidiaries to cost, less impairment.
UK and Hong Kong Accounting Requirements On 1 January 2005 the Group converted from UK GAAP to IFRS 2004 Hong Kong GAAP adopted for use by the EU.
The consolidated financial statements Under Hong Kong Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 24 of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2005, including Accounting for Investments in Securities SSAP24, investment 2004 comparatives, have been prepared accordingly, except that securities classified as held-to-maturity securities are stated at the 2004 comparatives exclude the effects of IAS 32 and 39. amortised cost less any provision for diminution in value.
Other Where applicable for 2004, the principles of UK GAAP have been securities, not intended to be held until maturity, are accounted applied.
On 1 January 2005 Hong Kong GAAP adopted an for under the alternative treatment.
Under the alternative accounting standard on financial instruments similar to IAS 39. treatment securities are identified as either trading or non-trading.
There would be no material differences between the accounting Trading securities are stated at fair value with changes in fair value conventions except as set out below: recognised in the profit and loss account as they arise.
Nontrading securities are stated at fair value with changes in fair value Investments in Securities recognised in the revaluation reserve until disposal.
2004 IFRS excluding IAS 32 39 If the Group had prepared its 2004 comparative financial Securities, including equity shares and treasury bills, which are statements under Hong Kong SSAP24 there would have been intended for use on a continuing basis are classified as a net charge to the profit and loss account for the year ended investment securities.
Investment securities are stated at cost less 31 December 2004 of $9 million, an increase in the book amount any provision for impairment.
Where dated investment securities of investment in securities of $46 million as at 31 December 2004 are purchased at a premium or a discount, these premiums or and a credit to reserves of $32 million at 31 December 2004. discounts are amortised through the income statement.
Securities other than investment securities are classified as dealing securities and are stated at market value.
