62 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting and the Group and Company financial statements in accordance records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the with applicable law and regulations.
financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and have elected to prepare the Company financial statements on the same basis.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors The Group and Company financial statements are required by Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance Statement law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial that comply with that law and those regulations.
position of the Group and Company and the performance of the Group for that period: the Companies Act 1985 provides in The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity relation to such financial statements that references in the of the corporate and financial information included on the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
