Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued As recommended by SFAS No.
123, the fair value of options Concentrations of Credit Risk were estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
As part of our ongoing control procedures, we monitor The Black-Scholes option-pricing model was developed for concentrations of credit risk associated with financial and use in estimating the fair value of traded options that have other institutions with which we conduct significant business.
no vesting or trading restrictions and are fully transferable.
Credit risk, including counterparty nonperformance under In addition, option-pricing models require the input of subjecderivative instruments, contingent obligations and new ship tive assumptions, including expected stock price volatility progress payment guarantees, is considered minimal, as we and dividend yields.
Because our options have characteristics primarily conduct business with large, well-established finandifferent from those of traded options and because changes cial institutions who have long-term credit ratings of A or in the subjective assumptions can materially affect our estiabove and we seek to diversify our counterparties.
In addition, mate of the fair value of stock options, we believe that the we have established guidelines regarding credit ratings and existing valuation models, including Black-Scholes, do not investment maturities that we follow to maintain safety and necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value liquidity.
We do not anticipate nonperformance by any of our of our options.
Since 2004, we have continued to refine our significant counterparties.
Black-Scholes estimates and assumptions based upon more We also monitor the creditworthiness of our customers in-depth reviews of the underlying information in order to to which we grant credit terms in the normal course of our more accurately value our options.
The impact of such changes business.
Concentrations of credit risk associated with these has generally been to reduce the estimated fair value of our receivables are considered minimal primarily due to their short option awards.
The Black-Scholes weighted-average assumpmaturities and the large number of accounts within our custions were as follows: tomer base.
We have experienced only minimal credit losses Years ended on our trade receivables.
We do not normally require collateral November 30, or other security to support normal credit sales.
However, we 2005 2004 2003 do normally require collateral and or guarantees to support Fair value of options at the notes receivable on significant asset sales and new ship progdates of grant................. $12.99 $15.87 $13.33 ress payments to shipyards.
Risk free interest rate............. 4.1% 3.4% 3.5% Reclassifications Expected dividend yield........... 1.90% 1.36% 1.30% Reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts to conform to the current year presentation.
a Expected volatility.............. 27.0% 35.0% 48.7% Expected option life in years...... 4.74 5.75 6.00 Note 3DLC Transaction a In 2003, our volatility assumption was based on the historical volatility of On April 17, 2003, Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc Carnival Corporation common stock.
Subsequent to 2003, we also considered the implied volatilities derived from our exchange traded options and completed a DLC transaction, which implemented Carnival convertible notes in determining our expected volatility assumption since Corporation & plcs DLC structure.
The contracts governing we believe these implied market volatilities should be considered in estimating our expected future volatilities.
the DLC structure provide that Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc each continue to have separate boards of direcIn December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards tors, but the boards and senior executive management of Board FASB issued SFAS No.
123 R, which will require both companies are identical.
The amendments to the conus to recognize compensation costs in our financial statements stituent documents of each of the companies also provide in an amount equal to the fair value of share-based payments that, on most matters, the holders of the common equity of granted to employees and directors over the corresponding both companies effectively vote as a single body.
On speciservice period, and also requires an estimation of forfeitures fied matters where the interests of Carnival Corporations when calculating compensation expense, instead of accountshareholders may differ from the interests of Carnival plcs ing for forfeitures as incurred, which is our current method.
shareholders a class rights action, each shareholder body This statement is effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal will vote separately as a class, such as transactions primarily 2006 and is expected to increase our full year 2006 sharedesigned to amend or unwind the DLC structure.
Generally, based compensation expense by approximately $55 million no class rights action will be implemented unless approved compared to 2005.
We have not yet determined which of the by both shareholder bodies.
two alternative transition methods we will use upon adoption of this new statement.
14 Carnival Corporation & plc Upon the closing of the DLC transaction, Carnival of guarantee to obtain a judgment, take other enforcement Corporation and Carnival plc also executed the Equalization actions or wait any period of time prior to taking steps against and Governance Agreement, which provides for the equalithe relevant guarantor.
All actions or proceedings arising out zation of dividends and liquidation distributions based on an of or in connection with the deeds of guarantee must be equalization ratio and contains provisions relating to the goverexclusively brought in courts in England.
finance of the DLC structure.
Because the current equalization Under the terms of the DLC transaction documents, Carnival ratio is 1 to 1, one Carnival plc ordinary share is entitled to Corporation and Carnival plc are permitted to transfer assets the same distributions, subject to the terms of the Equalizabetween the companies, make loans or investments in each tion and Governance Agreement, as one share of Carnival other and otherwise enter into intercompany transactions.
In a liquidation of either company The companies have entered into some of these types of or both companies, if the hypothetical potential per share transactions and expect to enter into additional transactions liquidation distributions to each companys shareholders are in the future to take advantage of the flexibility provided by not equivalent, taking into account the relative value of the the DLC structure and to operate both companies as a single two companies assets and the indebtedness of each comunified economic enterprise in the most effective manner.
In pany, to the extent that one company has greater net assets addition, under the terms of the Equalization and Governance so that any liquidation distribution to its shareholders would Agreement and the deeds of guarantee, the cash flow and not be equivalent on a per share basis, the company with the assets of one company are required to be used to pay the ability to make a higher net distribution is required to make a obligations of the other company, if necessary.
payment to the other company to equalize the possible net Given the DLC structure as described above, we believe distribution to shareholders, subject to certain exceptions.
that providing separate financial statements for each of Carnival At the closing of the DLC transaction, Carnival Corporation Corporation and Carnival plc would not present a true and fair and Carnival plc also executed deeds of guarantee.
Under the view of the economic realities of their operations.
Accordingly, terms of Carnival Corporations deed of guarantee, Carnival separate financial statements for both Carnival Corporation Corporation has agreed to guarantee all indebtedness and and Carnival plc have not been presented.
certain other monetary obligations of Carnival plc that are Simultaneously with the completion of the DLC transaction, incurred under agreements entered into on or after the closing a partial share offer PSO for 20% of Carnival plcs shares date of the DLC transaction.
The terms of Carnival plcs deed was made and accepted, which enabled 20% of Carnival plc of guarantee are identical to those of Carnival Corporations.
shares to be exchanged for 41.7 million Carnival Corporation In addition, Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc have each shares.
The 41.7 million shares of Carnival plc held by Carnival extended their respective deeds of guarantee to the others Corporation as a result of the PSO, which cost $1.05 billion, pre-DLC indebtedness and certain other monetary obligations, are being accounted for as treasury stock in the accompanyor alternatively standalone guarantees in lieu of utilization of ing balance sheets.
these deeds of guarantee, thus effectively cross guaranteeing Carnival plc was the third largest cruise company in the all Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc indebtedness and world and operated many well-known global brands with other monetary obligations.
Each deed of guarantee provides leading positions in the U. S. UK, Germany and Australia.
The that the creditors to whom the obligations are owed are combination of Carnival Corporation with Carnival plc under intended third party beneficiaries of such deed of guarantee.
the DLC structure has been accounted for under U. S. generThe deeds of guarantee are governed and construed in ally accepted accounting principles GAAP as an acquisiaccordance with the laws of the Isle of Man.
Subject to the tion of Carnival plc by Carnival Corporation pursuant to SFAS terms of the guarantees, the holders of indebtedness and No.
The number of additional other obligations that are subject to the guarantees will have shares effectively issued in the combined entity for purchase recourse to both Carnival plc and Carnival Corporation though accounting purposes was 209.6 million.
In addition, Carnival a Carnival plc creditor must first make written demand on Corporation incurred $60 million of direct acquisition costs, Carnival plc and a Carnival Corporation creditor on Carnival which have been included in the aggregate purchase price of Corporation.
Once the written demand is made by letter or $5.36 billion.
other form of notice, the holders of indebtedness or other The following pro forma information has been prepared obligations may immediately commence an action against the assuming the DLC transaction had occurred on December 1, relevant guarantor.
There is no requirement under the deeds 2002, rather than April 17, 2003, and has not been adjusted to Carnival Corporation & plc 15
