to make any material payments under such indemnification Code or if the income tax treaties or Internal Revenue Code clauses in the past and, under current circumstances, we do were to be changed in a manner adverse to us, a portion of not believe a request for material future indemnification payour income would become subject to taxation by the U. S. at ments is probable.
higher than normal corporate tax rates.
Cunard, Ocean Village, P&O Cruises, P&O Cruises Australia, War Risk Insurance Swan Hellenic, AIDA except for prior to November 2004, We maintain war risk insurance, subject to coverage limits and Costa, since the beginning of fiscal 2005, are subject to and exclusions for claims such as those arising from chemical income tax under the tonnage tax regimes of either the United and biological attacks, on all of our ships covering our legal liaKingdom or Italy.
Under both tonnage tax regimes, shipping bility to crew, passengers and other third parties arising from profits, as defined under the applicable law, are subject to war or war-like actions, including terrorist risks.
Due primarily corporation tax by reference to the net tonnage of qualifying to its high costs, we only carry war risk insurance coverage vessels.
Income not considered to be shipping profits under for physical damage to 43 of our 79 ships, which includes tonnage tax rules is taxable under either the normal UK income terrorist risks.
Under the terms of our war risk insurance tax rules or the tax regime applicable to Italian-registered coverage, which is typical for war risk policies in the marine ships.
We believe that substantially all of the income attributindustry, underwriters can give seven days notice to the able to these brands constitutes shipping profits and, accordinsured that the liability and physical damage policies can be ingly, Italian and UK income tax expenses for these operations cancelled.
If one or more of our 36 uninsured ships suffer has been and is expected to be minimal under the current damage in an attack, then the cost of any such damages tax regimes.
would be expensed, and such amounts could be material.
We do not expect to incur income taxes on future distributions of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries and, Note 9Income and Other Taxes accordingly, no deferred income taxes have been provided For fiscal 2004 and 2003, we believe that substantially all for the distribution of these earnings.
of our income, with the exception of our U. S. source income In addition to or in place of income taxes, virtually all jurisprincipally from the transportation, hotel and tour businesses dictions where our ships call impose taxes based on passenger of Holland America Tours and Princess Tours, is derived from, counts, ship tonnage or some other measure.
These taxes, or incidental to, the international operation of ships, and is other than those directly charged to and or collected from therefore exempt from U. S. federal income taxes.
For fiscal passengers by us, are recorded as operating expenses in the 2005, regulations under Section 883 of the Internal Revenue accompanying statements of operations.
Code limiting the types of income considered to be derived from the international operation of a ship first became effecNote 10Shareholders Equity tive.
Section 883 is the primary provision upon which we rely Carnival Corporations articles of incorporation authorize its to exempt certain of our international ship operation earnings Board of Directors, at its discretion, to issue up to 40 million from U. S. income taxes.
Accordingly, the 2005 provision for shares of its preferred stock and Carnival plc has 100,000 U. S. federal income taxes includes taxes on a portion of our authorized preference shares.
At November 30, 2005 and ship operating income that is in addition to the U. S. source 2004, no Carnival Corporation preferred stock had been issued transportation, hotel and tour income on which U. S. taxes and only a nominal amount of Carnival plc preferred shares have historically been provided.
In addition, during the fourth had been issued.
quarter of 2005 we chartered three ships to the Military Sealift In October 2004, the Boards of Directors authorized the Command in connection with the Hurricane Katrina relief repurchase of up to an aggregate of $1 billion of Carnival effort.
Income from these charters is not considered to be Corporation common stock and or Carnival plc ordinary shares income from the international operation of our ships and, commencing in 2005 subject to certain repurchase restrictions accordingly, approximately $18 million of income taxes were on Carnival plc shares.
Through February 6, 2006, we repurprovided on the net earnings of these charters in our 2005 chased 8.0 million shares of Carnival Corporation common fourth quarter at an effective tax rate of approximately 60%.
No expiration date has been specified If we were found not to qualify for exemption pursuant to for this authorization.
applicable income tax treaties or under the Internal Revenue Carnival Corporation & plc 23
