Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Property and Equipment Note 2 Summary of Significant Property and equipment are stated at cost.
Depreciation Accounting Policies and amortization were computed using the straight-line method Basis of Presentation over our estimates of average useful lives and residual values, We consolidate entities over which we have control see as a percentage of original cost, as follows: Note 3, as typically evidenced by a direct ownership interest Residual of greater than 50%.
For affiliates where significant influence Values Years over financial and operating policies exists, as typically eviShips.......................... 15% 30 denced by a direct ownership interest from 20% to 50%, the Ship improvements............... 0% or 15% 2 to remaining investment is accounted for using the equity method.
life of ship Buildings and improvements....... 010% 5-40 Cash and Cash Equivalents and Transportation equipment Short-Term Investments and other..................... 025% 220 Cash and cash equivalents include investments with original Leasehold improvements, maturities of three months or less, which are stated at cost.
including port facilities..........
Shorter of At November 30, 2005 and 2004, cash and cash equivalents lease term included $980 million and $495 million of investments, respecor related tively, primarily comprised of time deposits, investment grade asset life asset-backed debt obligations, commercial paper and money We review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever market funds.
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying Substantially all of our short-term investments, which amount of these assets may not be fully recoverable.
The consist of investments with original maturities greater than assessment of possible impairment is based on our ability to three months, are comprised of investment grade variable recover the carrying value of our asset based on our estimate rate debt obligations, which are asset-backed and categorized of its undiscounted future cash flows.
If these estimated as available-for-sale.
Our investments in these securities are undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying recorded at cost, which approximates their fair value due to value of the asset, an impairment charge is recognized for the these investments having variable interest rates, which typiexcess, if any, of the assets carrying value over its estimated cally reset every 28 days.
Despite the long-term nature of their fair value.
stated contractual maturities, we have the ability to quickly Dry-dock costs primarily represent planned major mainteliquidate these securities.
As a result of the resetting variable finance activities that are incurred when a ship is taken out of rates, at November 30, 2005 and 2004 we had no cumulative service for scheduled maintenance.
These costs are included gross unrealized or realized holding gains or losses from these in prepaid expenses and are amortized to other ship operating investments.
All income generated from these investments expenses using the straight-line method generally over one was recorded as interest income.
Inventories Ship improvement costs that we believe add value to our Inventories consist of provisions, gift shop and art merchanships are capitalized to the ships, and depreciated over the dise held for resale, fuel and supplies carried at the lower of improvements estimated useful lives, while costs of repairs cost or market.
Cost is determined using the weighted-average and maintenance are charged to expense as incurred.
Upon or first-in, first-out methods.
replacement or refurbishment of previously capitalized ship 10 Carnival Corporation & plc components, these assets estimated cost and accumulated Trademarks depreciation are written off.
The cost of developing and maintaining our trademarks We capitalize interest on ships and other capital projects have been expensed as incurred.
However, for acquisitions during their construction period.
made after June 2001 we have allocated a portion of the purchase price to the acquirees identified trademarks.
The Goodwill trademarks that Carnival Corporation recorded as part of its We review our goodwill for impairment annually, or, when acquisition of P&O Princess, which are estimated to have an events or circumstances dictate, more frequently.
All of our indefinite useful life and, therefore, are not amortizable, are goodwill has been allocated to our cruise reporting units.
reviewed for impairment annually, or more frequently when There were no significant changes to our goodwill carrying events or circumstances indicate that the trademark may be amounts since November 30, 2003, other than the changes impaired.
Our trademarks would be considered impaired if resulting from using different foreign currency translation their carrying value exceeds their fair value.
rates at each balance sheet date, except as noted below.
During 2004, we increased the fair values of the P&O Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities Princess publicly traded debt, and correspondingly, goodwill, We utilize derivative and nonderivative financial instruments, by $61 million to take into account the extension of Carnival such as foreign currency swaps and foreign currency obligaCorporations guarantee to cover this debt as of April 2003, tions, to limit our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency the acquisition date.
In addition, we reduced the fair value of exchange rates and interest rate swaps to manage our interest P&O Princess trademarks and, correspondingly increased rate exposure and to achieve a desired proportion of variable goodwill by $54 million to properly value our acquired tradeand fixed rate debt see Notes 6 and 11. marks as of the acquisition date.
The impact of these changes All derivatives are recorded at fair value, and the changes on our financial statements was immaterial.
in fair value must be immediately included in earnings if the Our goodwill impairment reviews consist of a two-step derivatives do not qualify as effective hedges.
If a derivative process of first determining the fair value of the reporting is a fair value hedge, then changes in the fair value of the unit and comparing it to the carrying value of the net assets derivative are offset against the changes in the fair value of allocated to the reporting unit.
Fair values of our reporting the underlying hedged item.
If a derivative is a cash flow hedge, units were determined based on our estimates of comparable then changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognized market price or discounted future cash flows.
If this fair value as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income exceeds the carrying value, which was the case for our AOCI until the underlying hedged item is recognized in reporting units, no further analysis or goodwill write-down earnings.
If a derivative or a nonderivative financial instrument is required.
If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than is designated as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign the carrying value of the net assets, the implied fair value of operation, then changes in the fair value of the financial instruthe reporting unit is allocated to all the underlying assets and ment are recognized as a component of AOCI to offset the liabilities, including both recognized and unrecognized tangible change in the translated value of the net investment being and intangible assets, based on their fair value.
If necessary, hedged, until the investment is liquidated.
We formally goodwill is then written-down to its implied fair value.
document all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as our risk management objectives and strategies for undertaking our hedge transactions.
Carnival Corporation & plc 11 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued We classify the fair value of our derivative contracts and utilized.
Revenues and expenses from our tour and travel serthe fair value of our offsetting hedged firm commitments as vices are recognized at the time the services are performed either current or long-term, which are included in prepaid and or expenses are incurred.
other assets and accrued and other liabilities, depending on Insurance Self-Insurance whether the maturity date of the derivative contract is within We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance or beyond one year from our balance sheet dates.
The cash for a number of risks including claims related to crew and flows from derivatives treated as hedges are classified in our passengers, hull and machinery, war risk, workers compenstatements of cash flows in the same category as the item sation and general liability.
Liabilities associated with these being hedged.
risks, including estimates for crew and passenger claims, are During fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, all net changes in the estimated based on, among other things, historical claims fair value of both our fair value hedges and the offsetting experience, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions.
hedged firm commitments and our cash flow hedges were Our expected loss accruals are based on estimates, and while immaterial, as were any ineffective portions of these hedges.
we believe the amounts accrued are adequate, the ultimate No fair value hedges or cash flow hedges were derecognized loss may differ from the amounts provided.
or discontinued in fiscal 2005, 2004 or 2003.
In addition, the Advertising Costs amount of realized net losses or gains from cash flow hedges Advertising costs are charged to expense as incurred that were reclassified into earnings during fiscal 2005, 2004 except for brochures and media production costs.
The broand 2003 was not significant.
The amount of estimated cash chures and media production costs are recorded as prepaid flow hedges unrealized net losses which are expected to be expenses and charged to expense as consumed or upon the reclassified to earnings in the next twelve months is approxifirst airing of the advertisement, respectively.
expenses totaled $455 million, $464 million and $335 million Finally, if any shipyard with which we have contracts to in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
At November 30, build our ships is unable to perform, we would be required 2005 and 2004, the amount of advertising costs included in to perform under our foreign currency swaps related to these prepaid expenses was not significant.
Accordingly, based upon the circumstances, we may have to discontinue the accounting for those Foreign Currency Translations and Transactions currency swaps as hedges, if the shipyard cannot perform.
For our foreign subsidiaries and affiliates using the local However, we believe that the risk of shipyard nonperforcurrency as their functional currency, assets and liabilities are mance is remote.
translated at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet dates.
Revenues and expenses of these foreign subsidiaries Revenue and Expense Recognition and affiliates are translated at weighted-average exchange Guest cruise deposits represent unearned revenues and rates for the period.
Equity is translated at historical rates, are initially recorded as customer deposit liabilities when and the resulting cumulative foreign currency translation received.
Customer deposits are subsequently recognized as adjustments resulting from this process are included as a cruise revenues, together with revenues from onboard and component of AOCI.
Therefore, the U. S. dollar value of these other activities and all associated direct costs of a voyage, items in our financial statements fluctuates from period to upon completion of voyages with durations of ten nights or period, depending on the value of the dollar against these less and on a pro rata basis for voyages in excess of ten nights.
Future travel discount vouchers issued to guests are typically recorded as a reduction of revenues when such vouchers are 12 Carnival Corporation & plc Exchange gains and losses arising from the remeasureof SFAS No.
123, which charges earnings for the estimated ment of monetary assets and liabilities and foreign currency fair value of stock options, would have been as follows in miltransactions denominated in a currency other than the funclions, except per share amounts : Years ended tional currency of the entity involved are immediately included November 30, in our earnings, unless such net liabilities have been designated 2005 2004 2003 to act as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation.
Net income, as reported............ $ 2,257 $ 1,854 $ 1,194 In addition, the unrealized exchange gains or losses on our Stock-based compensation long-term intercompany receivables denominated in a nonexpense included in net functional currency, which are not expected to be repaid in income, as reported............. 12 11 7 the foreseeable future and are therefore considered to form Total stock-based compensation part of our net investment, are recorded as a foreign currency expense determined under translation adjustment, which is included as a component of the fair value-based c a b AOCI.
Finally, net foreign currency transaction gains or losses method for all awards........... 86 66 36 recorded in our earnings were not significant in fiscal 2005, Pro forma net income for basic 2004 and 2003. earnings per share............... 2,183 1,799 1,165 Interest on dilutive Earnings Per Share convertible notes................ 47 49 43 Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net Pro forma net income for diluted income by the weighted-average number of shares of common earnings per share............... $ 2,230 $ 1,848 $ 1,208 stock and ordinary shares outstanding during each period.
Earnings per share Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing adjusted Basic net income by the weighted-average number of shares of As reported.................. $ 2.80 $ 2.31 $ 1.66 common stock and ordinary shares, common stock equivalents Pro forma.................... $ 2.71 $ 2.24 $ 1.62 and other potentially dilutive securities outstanding during each period.
All shares that are issuable under our outstandDiluted ing convertible notes that have contingent share conversion As reported.................. $ 2.70 $ 2.24 $ 1.63 features have been considered outstanding for our diluted Pro forma.................... $ 2.62 $ 2.18 $ 1.60 earnings per share computations, if dilutive, using the if a In January 2005, Carnival Corporation granted approximately 1.4 million converted method of accounting from the date of issuance.
employee stock options, with a $57.30 exercise price and a 2-year vesting term, in substitution for a similar number of outstanding options whose Stock-Based Compensation termination date was accelerated because of a corporate reorganization Pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards of our European and U. S. operations that was completed in 2004 2004 reorganization.
Due to the unusually short vesting period of these options, SFAS No.
123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compenwe would be required upon the adoption of SFAS No.
123 revised 2004, sation, as amended, we elected to use the intrinsic value Share-Based Payment SFAS No.
123 R, to recognize a large charge for stock compensation expense in 2006.
Such a charge would distort stock method of accounting for our employee and director stockcompensation expense in 2006 and not be indicative of our expected future based compensation awards instead of the fair value method.
normal annual charge for stock options.
Accordingly, in the fourth quarter of 2005, we authorized the immediate vesting of these options, resulting in an Accordingly, we have not recognized compensation expense increase of $11 million in stock compensation expense in the 2005 pro forma for our noncompensatory employee and director stock option net income.
In addition, prior to this accelerated vesting we had expensed $8 million for 2005 pro forma stock expense compensation related to these awards.
Our pro forma net income and pro forma earnings options.
In addition, for employee stock options granted after September per share, had we elected to adopt the fair value approach 2005, we reduced the options contractual term from 10 years to 7 years, in order to reduce the options expected option life, thus reducing its estimated fair value.
b As a result of the 2004 reorganization, 1.6 million unvested options held by employees vested immediately and their termination dates were accelerated.
This vesting occurred either in accordance with the terms of the option plan or to avoid having these employees and Carnival Corporation incur unduly burdensome taxes upon the exercise of such options at a later date.
As a result of this accelerated vesting, we included an additional $19 million of stock-based compensation expense in the 2004 pro forma net income.
c These amounts include the expensing of stock options made to retirementeligible employees over the expected vesting period of the option.
SFAS 123 R, when adopted, will require the expensing of future option grants over the period to retirement eligibility, if less than the vesting period, because vesting is not contingent upon any future performance.
