Interest Rate Swaps rate swap agreements effectively changed $1.25 billion and We have interest rate swap agreements designated as fair $828 million, respectively, of euribor and GBP libor floating value hedges whereby we receive fixed interest rate payments rate debt to fixed rate debt.
in exchange for making variable interest rate payments.
At These interest rate swap agreements mature through November 30, 2005 and 2004, these interest rate swap agree- 2010.
At November 30, 2005 and 2004, the fair value of our ments effectively changed $926 million and $929 million, interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges was an respectively, of fixed rate debt to libor-based floating rate debt.
unrealized loss of $6 million and $22 million, respectively.
In addition, we also have interest rate swap agreements The fair values of our interest rate swap agreements were designated as cash flow hedges whereby we receive variable estimated based on prices quoted by financial institutions for interest rate payments in exchange for making fixed interest these instruments.
At November 30, 2005 and 2004, these interest Note 12Segment Information Our cruise segment includes all of our cruise brands, which have been aggregated as a single reportable segment based on the similarity of their economic and other characteristics, including products and services they provide.
Our other segment primarily represents the hotel, tour and transportation operations of Holland America Tours and Princess Tours, and the business to business travel agency operations of P&O Travel Ltd. the latter two since completion of the DLC transaction on April 17, 2003.
The significant accounting policies of our segments are the same as those described in Note 2Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.
These intersegment revenues, which are included in full in the cruise segment, are eliminated from the other segment revenues in the line Intersegment elimination.
b Other segment assets primarily included hotels and lodges in Alaska and the Canadian Yukon, luxury dayboats offering tours to a glacier in Alaska and on the Yukon River, motorcoaches used for sightseeing and charters in the States of Washington and Alaska, British Columbia, Canada and the Canadian Yukon and private, domed rail cars, which run on the Alaska Railroad between Anchorage and Fairbanks, Whittier and Denali, and Whittier and Talkeetna.
