SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 92 Glossary Early-stage Distributions Seed Payments to investors after the realisation of investments of the Financing provided to allow a business concept to be developed, partnership.
perhaps involving production of prototypes and additional research, prior to bringing a product to market.
Divestments or realisations or exits Exits of investments, usually via a trade sale or an IPO Initial Public Start-up Offering on a stock market.
Financing provided to companies for the use in product development and initial marketing.
Companies may be in the process of being set Draw downs up or may have been in business for a short time, but have not sold Payments to the partnership by investors in order to finance investments.
Funds are drawn down from investors on a deal-by-deal basis.
Other early-stage Fund of funds Financing provided to companies that have completed the product Private equity funds whose principal activity consists of investing in other development stage and require further funds to initiate commercial private equity funds.
Investors in funds of funds can thereby increase manufacturing and sales.
They will not yet be generating profit.
Late-stage Gearing, debt equity ratio or leverage the level of a companys Expansion financing borrowings as a percentage of shareholder funds.
Capital provided for the growth and expansion of a company which is breaking even or even trading profitably.
Funds may be used to Hurdle rate finance increased production capacity, market or product development Arrangement that caps the downside risk for investors.
It allows investors and or provide additional working capital.
Capital provided for turnto get preferential access to the profits of the partnership.
In the absence around situations is also included in this category.
of reaching the hurdle return, general partners will not receive a share of the profit carried interest.
A hurdle rate of 10% means that the private Management Buy-Out MBO equity fund needs to achieve a return of at least 10% before the profits Funds provided to enable current operating management and are shared according to the carried interest arrangement.
investors to acquire an existing business.
Limited partnership Management Buy-In MBI Most private equity firms structure their funds as limited partnerships.
Funds provided to enable a manager or group of managers from Investors represent the limited partners and private equity managers the outside the company to buy into the company.
Follow-on investment Realisation A company which has previously received venture capital.
The sale of an investment.
Secondary purchase Secondary market Purchase of existing shares in a company from another venture capital The secondary market enables institutional investors to sell their stakes in firm, or from other shareholders.
a private equity partnership before it is wound up.
Public to private Trade sale Purchase of the share capital of a company quoted on a stock exchange Sale of the equity share of an investee company to another company.
with the intention of fide-listing the company and taking it private.
Turnaround General Terms A loss making company which can be successfully transformed into a Carried interest carry profit maker.
Carried interest or simply carry represents the share of a private equity funds profit usually 20% that will accrue to the general partners.
Committed funds or raised funds or committed capital Capital committed by investors.
This will be requested or drawn down by private equity managers on a deal-by-deal basis.
This amount is different from invested funds for two reasons.
Firstly, most partnerships will invest only between 80% and 95% of committed funds.
Second, one has to deduct the annual management fee which is supposed to cover the cost of operation of a fund.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Further information on our website www.
com About SVG Capital SVG Capital advised products Share price Share price Overview Our approach About private equity SVG private equity Our approach Key members Performance Fund of funds Portfolio Fund of funds II Top 20 companies P123 Team profiles Diamond Board profiles SVG public equity Report and accounts Key members Glossary of terms UK focus fund FAQs SRF Strategic Equity Capital Investor Relations Presentations and webcasts Share price Key facts Quick links Recent news About private equity Regulatory news Our approach Newssheets Key facts Report and accounts Team profiles Presentations and webcasts Share price How to invest Latest news Key dates Advised products Shareholder services Performance Advisers Press Centre Share price Key facts Recent news Newssheets Report and accounts Team profiles Request information Regulatory news Head office 111 Strand London WC2R 0AG Telephone 020 7010 8900 Fax 020 7240 5346 www.
