SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 88 Notice and agenda NOTICE is hereby given that the tenth Annual General Meeting of 10.
That, in substitution for the authority granted at the Companys SVG Capital plc will be held at 12.00 noon on Monday, 24 April 2006 at Annual General Meeting held on 25 April 2005, the Board be and is 111 Strand, London WC2R 0AG, to consider and, if thought fit, pass the hereby empowered, pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act following resolutions, of which resolutions 1 to 9 will be proposed as 1985, to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of Ordinary Resolutions and resolutions 10 and 11 will be proposed as the said Act for cash, pursuant to the authority conferred by Special Resolutions: resolution 9 above, as if sub-section 1 of Section 89 of the said Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall 1.
That the Report of the Directors and the Accounts for the year ended be limited to: 31 December 2005 be adopted.
a the allotment of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,285,455 equivalent to 1% of the issued ordinary 2.
That the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended share capital of the Company as at 20 March 2006 in 31 December 2005 be approved.
connection with the SVG Capital plc Executive Share Option Plan 2001: 3.
That Denis Raeburn be re-elected as a Director of the Company.
b the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue, open offer or any other pre-emptive offer in favour of 4.
That Andrew Williams be re-elected as a Director of the Company.
ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of ordinary shareholders on a fixed 5.
That Anthony Habgood be re-elected as a Director of the Company.
record date are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them subject to 6.
That Edgar Koning be re-elected as a Director of the Company.
such exclusions or other arrangements as the Board may deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or 7.
That Ernst & Young LLP be re-appointed as Auditors of the Company.
legal or practical problems arising in any overseas territory, the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or any 8.
That the Board be authorised to agree the Auditors remuneration.
other matter whatsoever : and c the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraphs a 9.
That, in substitution for the authority granted at the Companys and b above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal Annual General Meeting held on 25 April 2005, the Board be and is amount of 12,854,558 equivalent to 10% of the issued hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all ordinary share capital of the Company as at 20 March 2006, powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General meaning of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 : Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution, save a up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,285,455 equivalent that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or to 1% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at agreement which would or might require equity securities to be 20 March 2006 in connection with the SVG Capital plc allotted after such expiry and the Board may allot equity Executive Share Option Plan 2001: and securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the b up to an aggregate nominal amount of 42,848,529 equivalent power conferred hereby had not expired.
to one-third of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 20 March 2006, which authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution unless previously revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Board may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 89 11.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the said Act of ordinary shares of 1.00 each in the capital of the Company Shares, provided that: a the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 19,268,983 equivalent to 14.99% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 20 March 2006 : b the minimum price which may be paid for a Share is 1.00: c the maximum price which may be paid for a Share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for a Share taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Share is purchased: d purchases may only be made pursuant to this authority if the Shares are at the date of the proposed purchase trading on the London Stock Exchange at a discount to the net asset value: e the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and f the Company may make a contract to purchase Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
Registered Office: 31 Gresham Street London EC2V 7QA By Order of the Board Schroder Investment Management Limited Company Secretary 20 March 2006 SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 90 Explanatory notes and additional information The following notes give an explanation of certain of the business to be In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST conducted at the Annual General Meeting to be held at 12.00 noon on service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Monday, 24 April 2006 at 111 Strand, London, WC2R 0AG.
Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for Details regarding Resolutions 9, 10 and 11 are set out on pages 21 and 22. such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an An ordinary shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and insofar as must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the permitted by the Companys Articles of Association to vote instead issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time for receipt of proxy of him.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent 2001, the Company has specified that only those Shareholders registered is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner in the Register of Members of the Company at 6.00 p. m. on 21 April prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies 2006 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee number of Shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the through other means.
Register of Members after 6.00 p. m. on 21 April 2006 shall be disregarded in determining the right of any person to attend and vote at CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting the meeting.
service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system A proxy need not be a member.
A form of proxy is enclosed for ordinary timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of shareholders which should be completed and returned to the Companys CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member BN99 6ZR not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to Completion of the proxy will not preclude an ordinary shareholder from procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such attending and voting in person.
action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, Copies of the terms of appointment of the non-executive Directors and, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985, a service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the statement of all transactions of each Director and of his family interests in CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and the shares of the Company will be available for inspection by any timings.
member of the Company at the registered office of the Company, 31 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QA, during normal business hours on The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the any weekday public holidays excepted and by any person attending the circumstances set out in regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Annual General Meeting, during the continuance of the Meeting.
None Securities Regulations 2001. of the Directors have a contract of service with the Company.
Profiles of each of the persons offering themselves for re-election as Directors are on page 16 of this report.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
