SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 85 Company summary The Company Where shares were acquired before 6 April 1998, the capital gain will SVG Capital plc carries on business as an investment trust and it is listed also be reduced by indexation allowance for the period up to April 1998, on the London Stock Exchange.
Investment trust companies are able to switch investments without For the benefit of those shareholders who acquired their holdings in liability for capital gains tax.
This, together with the advantages of exchange for their interests in Schroder Ventures funds, the acquisition professional management and spread of risk, makes investment trusts a cost of the shares for capital gains tax purposes based upon initial valuable investment medium.
dealings on 23 May 1996 was as follows: In order to obtain exemption from capital gains tax the Company Each ordinary share of 1: 191.50p.
conducts itself with a view to being an approved investment trust for the purposes of Section 842 of the United Kingdom Income and Corporation The acquisition cost of the Subordinated Convertible Bonds for capital Taxes Act 1988 as amended.
The Company is not a close company for gains tax purposes based upon the original purchase price was as taxation purposes.
follows: 1 Information for shareholders Each 4 2% Subordinated Convertible Bond of 100,000 nominal value: The Companys shares and Subordinated Convertible Bonds are listed on 100,000. the London Stock Exchange.
The stock exchange code for the shares is SVI and for the bonds is SVIC.
The price of the shares is quoted daily in Schroder investment trust dealing service the Financial Times, The Daily Telegraph and The Times.
The Schroder investment trust dealing service provides a convenient and cost effective means of investing in the ordinary shares of the Company.
Real time share information for the shares is available on the FT Cityline The service offers investors: by dialing: 0906 843 1432.
Calls are charged at 60p per minute at all times.
a regular investment option from a minimum of 50 per month a lump sum investment option from a minimum of 1,000 The net asset value is calculated at 30 June and 31 December each year daily dealing following an extensive valuation procedure.
Due to the nature of the competitive charges Companys investments, it is not practical to publish the net asset value the option to reinvest income.
Other investment trusts that are available through this service are A factsheet containing information including the diversification of the Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc, Schroder Income Growth Fund plc, portfolio and the Companys largest investments is published quarterly Schroder Japan Growth Fund plc, Schroder Split Investment Fund plc, and is available on request from the Company Secretary.
Schroder Split ZDP plc, Schroder UK Growth Fund plc, Schroder UK Mid & Small Cap Fund plc and International Biotechnology Trust plc.
Capital gains tax information For the 2005 2006 tax year, the annual capital gains after adjusting for indexation and taper relief of private individuals in excess of 8,500 2004 2005: 8,200 are assessed for capital gains tax.
Capital gains on shares disposed of by individuals may be eligible for taper relief.
The taper reduces the amount of a chargeable gain according to how long the asset has been held for periods after 5 April 1998.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 86 Company summary continued Individual Savings Account Schroder maxi ISA plan The Schroder ISA offers investors: lump sum investments in the ordinary shares of the Company from a minimum of 1,000 to a maximum of 7,000 in the current tax year a regular investment option from a minimum of 50 per month competitive charges the option to reinvest income the option to include other trusts.
If you would like further information about the Schroder investment trust dealing service or the Schroder Maxi ISA, please contact the Secretary of the Company at 31 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QA or call Schroder Investor Services on freephone 0800 718 777.
Registrar services Communications with shareholders are mailed to the address held on the share register.
Any notifications and enquiries relating to registered share holdings, including a change of address or other amendment should be directed to Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland at PO Box 28448, Finance House, Orchard Brae, Edinburgh EH4 1WQ.
The helpline telephone number of Lloyds TSB Registrars is 0870 601 5366.
Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland maintain a web-based enquiry service for shareholders.
Currently the Shareview site address below contains information available on public registers.
Shareholders will be invited to enter their name, shareholder reference account number and post code and will be able to view information on their own holding.
JP Morgan Chase Bank act as Registrar for the Subordinated Convertible bonds.
Any notifications and enquiries relating to Subordinated Convertible Bonds should be directed to JP Morgan Chase Bank, Trinity Tower, 9 Thomas More Street, London E1N 1YT.
