SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 29 Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which present fairly the financial position of the Company and of the Group and the financial performance and cash flows of the Company and of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and state that the Company has complied with IFRSs, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and of the Goup and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The accounts are published on the www.
com website, which is a website maintained by SVG Advisers Limited SVGA, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
The maintenance and integrity of this website is the responsibility of SVGA.
The accounts are also published on the www.
co. uk website, which is a website maintained by Schroders.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by Schroders or any other subsidiary of Schroders plc is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of Schroders.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of these websites and accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the accounts shown on the websites from this published report and accounts.
Visitors to the websites need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the accounts may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
The Directors believe that they have complied with these responsibilities.
