Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 GENERAL INFORMATION Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Acts 1908 to 1917.
Principal activity The principal activity of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC the Company remains that of an investment trust within the meaning of Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
The principal activity of its trading subsidiary is investment dealing.
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of accounting The financial statements of the Group and the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, and International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in effect, and to the extent that they have been adopted by the European Union.
The disclosures required by IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 1 concerning the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS are given in note 25.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group and the Company are set out below.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Trust Companies AITC in January 2003 is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, the directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis compliant with the recommendations of the SORP.
All values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds unless otherwise indicated.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Presentation of income statement In order better to reflect the activities of an investment trust company and in accordance with guidance issued by the AITC, supplementary information which analyses the income statement between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented alongside the income statement.
In accordance with the Companys status as a UK investment company under Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985, net capital returns may not be distributed by way of dividend.
Additionally, the net revenue is the measure the directors believe appropriate in assessing the Groups compliance with certain requirements set out in Section 842 Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
Income Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment has been established, normally the ex-dividend date.
Where the Group has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than cash, the amount of cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of shares received over the amount of cash dividend foregone is recognised as a gain in the income statement.
