Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts The directors are responsible for preparing the The financial statements are published on the Annual Report and the financial statements in www.
com website, which is a website accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and maintained by the Companys Investment Manager, those International Financial Reporting Standards as Investec Investment Management Limited Investec.
adopted by the European Union.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by Investec or any of its subsidiaries is, The directors are required to prepare financial so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility statements for each financial year which present of Investec.
The work carried out by the auditors fairly the financial position of the Company and of the does not involve consideration of the maintenance Group and the financial performance and cash flows and integrity of this website and accordingly, the of the Company and of the Group for that period.
In auditors accept no responsibility for any changes preparing those financial statements, the directors that have occurred to the financial statements since are required to: they were initially presented on the website.
Visitors select suitable accounting policies and then to the website need to be aware that legislation in apply them consistently: the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, from legislation in their jurisdiction.
reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in lFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and state that the Company has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
