TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC NOTICE OF MEETING NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting of Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC will be held at The RAC Club, 89 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS on 27 September 2005 at 12 noon to transact the following business: Ordinary Business Resolution No.
To receive and adopt the Directors and Auditors Reports and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2005.
To elect Sir Peter Burt as a Director.
To re-elect Sir Ronald Hampel as a Director.
To re-elect Charles B Johnson as a Director.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 April 2005.
To re-appoint RSM Robson Rhodes LLP as Auditors.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions: 9.
Special Resolution That: a for the purposes of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of the said Section 80 of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6,699,770 being an amount equal to 5% of the existing issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company as at the date of the notice of this meeting during the period from the date of the passing of this resolution up to the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution, at which time such authority will expire except that the Company may before the expiry of such period make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after the expiry of such period and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired and provided that the authority hereby conferred shall be in addition to and without prejudice to any previous authority to allot relevant securities conferred upon the Directors: b that the Directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Act to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 of the Act pursuant to the authority conferred upon them by this resolution as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that the power conferred by this resolution shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities having a nominal amount not exceeding in aggregate 6,699,770 being an amount equal to 5% of the existing issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company as at the date of the notice of this meeting and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution unless renewed or extended prior to or at such Meeting except that the Company may, before the expiry of any power contained in this resolution, make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired: and provided that any allotment of securities pursuant to this resolution shall be at a price 55 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC NOTICE OF MEETING continued exceeding the fully diluted net asset value of the security concerned on the business day prior to the date of allotment.
Special Resolution That the Company be and it is hereby authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the Act of shares provided that: i the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 80,397,238: ii the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share shall be 25 pence: iii the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share shall be not more than 5% above the average of the market value of the shares for the 5 business days before the purchase is made: and iv unless renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2006 save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase shares which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
By Order of the Board Registered Office 5 Morrison Street Edinburgh EH3 8BH Sara A MacIntosh for and on behalf of Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited Secretary 22 June 2005 Notes: 1.
A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote thereat instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A proxy form must be returned to the Companys registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA to arrive not later than 12 noon on 25 September 2005.
The Report and Financial Statements are circulated to Ordinary Shareholders.
Ordinary Shareholders are entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting.
Copies of the letters of appointment of the Directors and the Articles of Association of the Company are available for inspection at the Companys registered office at 5 Morrison Street, Edinburgh, EH3 8BH and at the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting.
The Dress Code of the RAC Club requires that gentlemen must wear a shirt with collar and tie.
No jeans or trainers are permitted and ladies must wear smart business attire.
56 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC NOTICE OF MEETING continued Electronic proxy appointment for CREST members for UK only CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 27 September 2005 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Electronic proxy appointment for non-CREST members for UK only Shareholders who prefer to register the appointment of their proxy electronically via the Internet can do so through the Lloyds TSB Registrars website at www.
co. uk where full instructions on the procedure are given.
The personal reference number, card ID and account number printed in the voting pack will be required to use this electronic proxy appointment system.
Alternatively, shareholders who have already registered with Lloyds TSB Registrars on-line portfolio service, Shareview, can appoint their proxy electronically by logging on to their portfolio at www.
co. uk and clicking on Company Meetings.
A proxy appointment made electronically will not be valid if sent to any address other than those provided or if received after 12 noon on 25 September 2005.
Please note that any electronic communication found to contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
