Directors and other Information Directors Secretary P L Salsbury Chairman Henderson Secretarial Services Limited C M Burton represented by J S Ellman-Brown ACIS J H M Newsum Registrar R A Stone Computershare Investor Services PL C P H Wolton PO Box 82 The Pavilions Registered Office Bridgwater Road 4 Broadgate Bristol BS99 7NH London EC2M 2DA T elephone: 0870 702 0010 T elephone: 020 7 818 1818 Facsimile: 020 7 818 1819 Registered Auditor Ernst & Y oung LLP Registered Number 1 More London Place Registered as an investment company in England and London SE1 2AF Wales No.
84492 Stockbrokers Investment Manager UBS Investment Bank Thames River Capital UK Limited, authorised and 1 Finsbury Avenue regulated by the Financial Services Authority London EC2M 2PP Fund Manager: Solicitors C M Turner MRICS Slaughter and May Deputy Manager: One Bunhill Row M A Phayre-Mudge MRICS London EC1Y 8YY Finance Manager: J L Elliott ACA Share Plan, ISAs and PE Ps Direct Property Portfolio Manager: BNP Paribas Fund Services UK Limited J F K Wilkinson MRICS Block C, W estern House Investor Relations Manager: Lynchwood Business Park N G Williamson Peterborough PE2 6BP The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Trust Companies 56 TR Property Investment Trust TR Property Share Plan BNP Paribas Fund Services UK Limited offers a Share Plan providing a simple and flexible way of investing in TR Property Investment Trust plc.
The Share Plan offers the following: Regular savings from 50 per month quarter, or lump sum investments from 500 An income reinvestment facility.
Alternatively, you can have dividends paid to your bank or building society account All paperwork and documentation is simplified and reduced to a minimum Half yearly valuations with consolidated tax certificate TR Property ISA Y ou can invest directly in TR Property Investment Trust plc through the TR Property ISA.
The ISA offers the following: Tax free income and tax free growth Regular savings from 100 per month or an initial lump sum investment from 2,000, and further lump sums of 500 An income reinvestment facility.
Alternatively, you can have dividends paid to your bank or building society account Half yearly valuations and reports Both Mini and Maxi ISAs available for investment by lump sum or regular savings Under the TR Property PE P and ISA, you are permitted to transfer your existing PE P or ISA funds into the Trust.
Investments retain their tax-efficient status during and after transfer.
Please remember that the value of your investment can fall as well as rise and you may not get back the amount originally invested.
Tax assumptions may change if the law changes and the value of tax relief will depend upon your individual circumstances.
Further Information Please consult our website www.
co. uk or write to: BNP Paribas Fund Services UK Limited TR Property Investment Trust plc Share Plan ISA PE P Block C, W estern House Lynchwood Business Park Peterborough PE2 6BP Alternatively, please contact your professional adviser for further information or call our Investor Services Department on 0845 358 1109.
BNP Paribas Fund Services UK Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
W e may record telephone calls for our mutual protection and to improve customer service.
TR Property Investment Trust plc is managed by Printed by Park Communications, London
