Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting Resolutions 1, 2 and 3: Accounts, Remuneration Report single purchase or a series of purchases, when market & Dividend conditions are suitable, with the aim of maximising the These are the resolutions which deal with the presentation benefits to shareholders.
of the audited accounts, the approval of the directors W here purchases are made at prices below the prevailing remuneration report and the declaration of the final net asset value per share, this will enhance the net asset dividend.
The vote to approve the remuneration report is value for the remaining shareholders.
It is therefore advisory only and will not require the Company to alter any intended that purchases would only be made at prices arrangements detailed in the report should the resolution below net asset value.
Y our Board considers that it will be not be passed.
most advantageous to shareholders for the Company to be Resolutions 4, 5 and 6: Re-election and election of able to make such purchases as and when it considers the Directors timing to be favourable and therefore does not propose to Resolutions 4 and 5 deal with the re-elections of Ms C M set a timetable for making any such purchases.
Burton and Mr J H M Newsum as directors.
Under the The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Articles of Association, Ms Burton and Mr Newsum are Shares Regulations 2003 the Regulations came into required to retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting: force on 1 December 2003.
The Regulations enable both have confirmed they will offer themselves for recompanies in the United Kingdom to hold any of their own election.
shares they have purchased as treasury stock with a view Resolution 6 deals with the election of Mr P H W olton as a topossible resale at a future date, rather than cancelling director.
The Articles of Association require new directors to them.
If the Company does re-purchase any of its shares, hold office only until the first Annual General Meeting the directors do not currently intend to hold any of the following their initial appointment.
The shares so repurchased will continue to be cancelled.
Resolutions 7 and 8: Auditors These deal with the re-appointment of the Auditors, Ernst & The rules of the UK Listing Authority limit the price which Y oung LLP, and the authorising of the directors to may be paid by the Company to 105% of the average determine their remuneration.
middle-market quotation for an ordinary share on the 5 business days immediately preceding the date of the Resolution 9: Authority to make Market Purchases of the relevant purchase.
The minimum price to be paid will Companys own Shares be 25p per ordinary share being the nominal value.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 26 July 2004, a Also these rules limit a listed company to purchases of special resolution was proposed and passed, giving the shares representing up to 15% of its issued ordinary directors authority, until the conclusion of the Annual share capital through the market pursuant to a general General Meeting in 2005, to make market purchases of the authority such as this.
For this reason, the Company is Companys own issued ordinary shares up to a maximum of limiting its authority to make such purchases to 53,127, 001 representing approximately 14.99% of the 14.9 9% of the Companys ordinary shares in issue at the issued share capital as at 3 June 2004, the date of the date of the Annual General Meeting: this is equivalent to Notice of the AG M for cancellation.
This authority will 51,6 85,520 ordinary shares of 25p each at 24 May expire at this years Annual General Meeting.
2005, the date of the Notice of AG M. The authority will last until the Annual General Meeting of the Company to Y our Board is proposing that they should be given renewed be held in 2006 or, if earlier, 18 months from the passing authority to purchase ordinary shares in the market.
Board believes that to make such purchases in the market at appropriate times and prices is a suitable method of A special resolution is one that requires a majority of at enhancing shareholder value.
The Company would, within least 7 5% of those present and voting to be passed.
guidelines set from time to time by the Board, make either a TR Property Investment Trust 51
