Corporate Governance continued Environmental Policy At each AG M a presentation is made by the Fund Manager In respect of the direct property portfolio, there is an following the business of the meeting.
Shareholders have environmental assessment prior to purchase to identify the opportunity to address questions to the Chairman and possible contamination or materials considered the Chairman of the Audit Committee at the AG M. All environmentally harmful.
Remedial action is taken where shareholders are encouraged to attend the AG M. appropriate.
T enants are encouraged to pursue their own It is the intention of the Board that the Annual Report and environmental procedures.
Accounts and Notice of the AG M be issued to Relations with Shareholders shareholders so as to provide at least twenty working Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the days notice of the AG M. Shareholders wishing to lodge Board and the Investment Manager.
The prime medium by questions in advance of the AG M are invited to do so by which the Company communicates with shareholders is writing to the Company Secretary at the address given on through the Interim and Annual Report and Accounts page 56.
At other times the Company responds to letters which aim to provide shareholders with a clear from shareholders on a range of issues.
understanding of the Companys activities and their results.
General presentations to both shareholders and analysts This information is supplemented by the daily calculation follow the publication of the annual results.
All meetings and by the publication at the Stock Exchange of the net between the Fund Manager and shareholders are reported asset value of the Companys ordinary shares and a to the Board.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Accounts The directors are required by UK company law to prepare preparation of the accounts for the year ended 31 March accounts for each financial year that give a true and fair 2005.
The directors also confirm that applicable accounting view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group standards have been followed and that the accounts have as at the end of the financial year and of the net revenue been prepared on a going concern basis.
of the Group for that period.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have records, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and been used and applied consistently and that reasonable and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prudent judgements and estimates have been made in the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
