Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the One Hundred and First a the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised Annual General Meeting of TR Property Investment Trust to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the Companys plc will be held at the Royal Automobile Club, 89 Pall Mall, ordinary shares in issue at the date of the Annual London SW1Y 5HS on Tuesday 19 July 2005 at 12 noon General Meeting equivalent to 51,685,520 ordinary for the following purposes: shares of 25p each at 24 May 2005, the date of this Notice of Annual General Meeting : Ordinary Business b the maximum price exclusive of expenses at 1 T o receive the Report of the Directors and the audited which a Share may be purchased shall not exceed accounts for the year ended 31 March 2005.
of the average of the middle market quotations for the Shares as taken from the 2 T o approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the year ended 31 March 2005. five business days immediately preceding the date 3 T o declare a final dividend of 1.55p per ordinary share.
of purchase: 4 T o re-elect Ms C M Burton as a director.
c the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Share shall be 25p, being the 5 T o re-elect Mr J H M Newsum as a director.
nominal value per Share: 6 T o elect Mr P H Wolton as a director.
d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the 7 T o re-appoint Ernst & Y oung LLP as auditors of the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Company in 2006 or, if earlier, 18 months from the passing of this resolution, save that the Company 8 T o authorise the directors to determine the may before such expiry enter into a contract to remuneration of the auditors.
purchase Shares under which such purchases will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after Special Business the expiration of this authority and may make a T o consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following purchase of Shares in pursuance of any such contract.
resolution as a special resolution: By order of the Board 9 THA T the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 J S Ellman-Brown ACIS of the Act of ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the Henderson Secretarial Services Limited capital of the Company Shares on such terms and Secretary in such manner as the Directors may from time to time 24 May 2005 determine provided that: TR Property Investment Trust 49 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes 1 Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated 4 This notice is sent for information only to holders Securities Regulations 2001, only those shareholders of debentures issued by Trust Union Finance registered in the register of members of the Company 1991 PL C. at 7.
00pm on 17 July 2005 shall be entitled to attend 5 The Register of Directors Interests kept by the and or vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect Company in accordance with Section 325 of the of the number of shares registered in their name at Companies Act 1985 will be open for inspection at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register the AG M. of securities after that time on 17 July 2005 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to 6 By attending the meeting, members and their proxies attend or vote at the Meeting.
In the case of joint and representatives are understood by the Company to holders of a share, the vote of the senior who tenders have confirmed their agreement to receive any a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be communications including communications relating to accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other the Companys securities made at the meeting.
joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in 7 The Registered Office of the Company is 4 Broadgate, the register in respect of the joint holding.
2 A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the 8 Shareholders attention is drawn to the fact that a meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to dress code exists at the Royal Automobile Club.
attend and, on a poll, to vote on his her behalf.
A proxy Gentlemen are required to wear tailored business need not be a member of the Company.
The number suits, or tailored jackets and trousers, together of votes cast by proxy for each resolution will be with collared shirts and ties at all times and in all communicated to shareholders at or following the areas of the club.
AG M and will be available on request.
Ladies are expected to dress with commensurate 3 A form of proxy is enclosed and to be valid must be formality according to the occasion and within the lodged with the Registrar of the Company not less spirit of these rules.
Shareholders are requested than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
to note that this dress code will be enforced and Completion and return of a form of proxy will not preclude use of the facilities will be refused in the event of a shareholder from attending and voting in person.
Royal Automobile Club 89 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS 50 TR Property Investment Trust
