Marketing Review Witans marketing objectives are to promote awareness of the Trust and stimulate James Budden demand for its shares.
2005 was Witans first full year as a multi-managed fund.
During the year the main aim of Witans marketing strategy was to communicate this change and its benets to both shareholders and potential purchasers of Witan shares.
Witan employed a mix of activity in order to reach this aim including advertising, direct mail, public relations, e-commerce and sponsorship.
Through these means Witan sought to tailor its investment proposition to its core target markets in order to inform and encourage demand.
These markets break into three segments namely the private investor, the Investment IFA and the discretionary portfolio manager.
Throughout 2005 Witan promoted its range of product plans to the private investor.
The message to the market was one of solid risk adjusted wealth creation ahead of global stockmarket returns.
The volume of plan purchases remained steady, with sales of Jump remaining particularly buoyant despite the launch of the governments Child Trust Fund.
However PEP disposals were significant as this product continues to mature.
Witan set out at the beginning of the year to position itself as a viable and credible alternative to multi-managed unit trusts in the eyes of the investment IFA.
Here Witan has made significant progress, stressing its blend of managers normally inaccessible to the retail market and its advantage in terms of total expense ratio to the investor.
The multi-managed sector of funds becomes ever more popular to IFAs as it seeks to ll the void being vacated by with profits products.
Within the circle of discretionary portfolio managers, Witans offering was one of differentiation.
Last year Witan planned to prove to this inuential market that it should no longer be compared to its peers as it had placed a clear emphasis on risk adjusted returns.
On the other hand many of its past peers had sought to increase risk in order to maximise performance.
This was a difficult argument to maintain while markets rose continuously.
However, Witan remains confident that over the long term its steady investment approach will win professional support.
Marketing Strategy 2006 Marketing is an on-going process and as such Witans strategy for 2006 remains more of the same.
However the process will continue to improve and evolve.
Witan will grow awareness of its proposition through use of cartoons in popular and cerebral magazines and its sponsorship of the RHS Wisley and Tommys, the baby charity.
2006 will see the end of Witans current relationship as principal sponsor of Britains top female skier, Chemmy Alcott.
It has been a most successful sponsorship in terms of Witans brand exposure and it is hoped that Witan will be in a position to extend the arrangement into the future.
During 2006 Witan in the form of Witan Investment Services will assume responsibility for managing its own product plans from Henderson Global Investors.
All investors will be notied of this development during the course of the year.
The necessity to create its own savings platform has afforded Witan Investment Services the opportunity to offer its expertise to third party investment trusts.
As a result Witan Pacic Investment Trust will become available to investors through the range of Witan product plans.
A new website will be launched to facilitate this concept offering on-line dealing and valuations.
48 Additionally Witans marketing activity will cover the Witanwisdom following areas during 2006.
There are a variety of ways to invest in Witan.
Naturally, Witans shares can be traded easily on the stock market.
Advertising the share price and net asset value in national However, bearing in mind the benets of income reinvestment, newspapers and journals.
regular savings and tax free wrappers, one of Witans investment plans may be the answer.
Membership of the Association of Investment Trust Companies and support of its marketing initiatives.
Witan Share Plan is a straightforward savings scheme with minimum lump sum investment from 500 and Listing Witan Investment Trust plc on the New Zealand regular savings from 50 per month.
Witan ISA enables investors to save tax free up to a limit Launch of Witan Select Pension in conjunction with of 7,000 per annum.
The minimum lump sum Alliance Trust Services.
investments is 2,000 with regular savings from 50 per During 2006 the Board will use key performance indicators to month.
measure the success of Witans marketing strategy.
Whilst the Witan Transfer PEP allows investors to transfer all or any application of the marketing mix will be creative and number of their existing PEP holdings into Witan.
The innovative, emphasis will be placed on ensuring cost effective investments retain their tax free status during and after responses across all activities.
The marketing budget is xed transfer.
annually and expenditure is kept under close review.
The budget for 2006 is expected to be similar to that for 2005.
Witan Select Pension provides the opportunity to invest in a wide range of investment trusts, company shares, unit trust and bond funds within a pension wrapper administered by Alliance Trust Savings.
Jump gives parents, grandparents or other adults the chance to save effectively for children over the long term.
Minimum lump sum investment is set at 100 and regular contributions can be made from as little as 25 a month or quarter.
Call free on 0800 832 832 for product information and guidance.
com for all the latest news and views and the opportunity to access plan application forms.
Please remember that the value of an investment and the income from it can fall as well as rise as a result of market and currency uctuations and you may not get back the amount originally invested.
Tax assumptions may change if the law changes and the value of tax relief will depend upon your individual circumstances.
Henderson Global Investors is the name under which Henderson Global Investors Limited, Henderson Investment Funds Limited, Henderson Fund Management plc, Henderson Investment Management Limited and Henderson Administration Limited Marketing Rationale all authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority It is the cumulative effect of the marketing process that adds provide investment products and services.
Such activity stimulates demand for Witan shares.
This in turn guarantees a level of liquidity which boosts the share price and allows shareholders to purchase and sell shares at a price reecting the performance and rating of Witan.
The presence of liquidity for investment trust shares is increasingly important in a ckle marketplace where demand 4 Broadgate, London EC2M 2DA.
can drop, discounts slip and price spreads widen.
