Notes to the Financial Statements contractual terms.
General information of proprietary trades in relation to which cross-border transportation or transmission capacity is held.
The remeasurement under IAS 39 of the remaining activities of our Centrica plc is a Company incorporated in the United proprietary trading businesses is included in results for the Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of year before exceptional items and certain re-measurements.
the registered office is given on page 27.
The nature of the Separately identified within interest is the re-measurement Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in under IAS 39 of the publicly traded units of The Consumers note 5 and in the Operating and Financial Review on pages Waterheater Income Fund.
Re-measurement movements 8 to 20. reflect changes in external market prices and exchange rates.
The consolidated Financial Statements of Centrica plc The treatment has no impact on the on-going cash flows of are presented in pounds sterling.
Foreign operations are the business and management believes that these unrealised included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2. movements are best presented separately from underlying At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, business performance.
the following Standards and Interpretations which have not In accordance with IAS 1, Presentation of financial been applied in these Financial Statements were in issue, statements, certain items which are material to the result for but not yet effective: the period and are of a non-recurring nature are presented IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures, and the separately.
Items which have been considered material and related amendment to IAS 1 on capital disclosures: non-recurring in nature include disposals of businesses, IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2: business restructuring and the renegotiation of significant IFRIC 7, Applying the restatement approach under gas contracts.
Such a presentation will be followed on a IAS 29 reporting in hyperinflationary economies: consistent basis in future periods.
Items are considered IFRIC 6, Liabilities arising from participating in a specific material if their omission or misstatement, could in the opinion market Waste electrical and electronic equipment: of the Directors, individually or collectively, affect the true and IFRIC 5, Rights to interests arising from decommissioning, fair presentation of the Financial Statements.
restoration and environmental rehabilitation funds.
Basis of consolidation The Directors anticipate the adoption of these Standards and The Group Financial Statements consolidate the Financial Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact Statements of the Company and entities controlled by the on the Financial Statements of the Group except for additional Company its subsidiaries made up to the 31 December disclosures on capital and financial instruments when the each year, and incorporate the results of its share of jointly relevant standards come into effect for periods commencing controlled entities and associates using the equity method on or after 1 January 2007. of accounting.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Summary of significant The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during accounting policies the year are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary adjustments are made to the Financial Statements Basis of preparation of subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities to The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in bring the accounting policies used into line with those used accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards by the Group.
The disclosures required by IFRS 1 All intra-group transactions, balances, income and concerning the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS are given expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
The consolidated Financial Statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the Interests in Joint Ventures European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the A jointly controlled entity is a joint venture which involves EU IAS Regulation.
the establishment of an entity to engage in economic activity, The consolidated Financial Statements have been which the Group jointly controls with its fellow venturers.
prepared on the historical cost basis, except for derivative Under the equity method investments in jointly controlled financial instruments and available-for-sale investments that entities are carried at cost plus post-acquisition changes in have been measured at fair value.
The carrying values of the Groups share of net assets of the jointly controlled entity, recognised assets and liabilities that are hedged items in fair less any impairment in value in individual investments.
The value hedges, and are otherwise carried at cost, are adjusted Income Statement reflects the Groups share of the results to record changes in the fair values attributable to the risks of operations after tax of the jointly controlled entity the that are being hedged.
The principal accounting policies equity method.
adopted are set out below.
Certain of the Groups exploration and production activity The Groups Income Statement and segmental note is conducted through joint ventures where the venturers have separately identifies the effects of re-measurements of certain a direct interest in and jointly control the assets of the venture.
financial instruments, and items which are exceptional, The results, assets, liabilities and cash flows of these jointly in order to provide readers with a clear and consistent controlled assets are included in the consolidated Financial presentation of the Groups underlying performance.
Statements in proportion to the Groups interest.
The re-measurement items which are separately identified within gross profit are the re-measurements of contracts related to our energy procurement activities, which are classified as derivatives under IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement, due to the nature of the 44 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Cost of sales 2.
Summary of significant accounting Energy supply includes the cost of gas and electricity policies continued produced and purchased during the period taking into Interests in associates account the industry reconciliation process for total gas and An associate is an entity in which the Group has an equity total electricity usage by supplier, and related transportation, interest and over which it has the ability to exercise significant royalty costs and bought in materials and services.
Under the equity method investments in associates Home Services and fixed fee service contracts cost are carried at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the of sales includes direct labour and related overheads on Group's share of the net assets of the associate, less any installation work, repairs and service contracts in the period.
impairment in value in individual investments.
The Income Statement reflects the Groups share of the results of Employee share schemes operations after tax of the associate.
The Group has a number of employee share schemes, detailed in the Directors Report on page 24, the Revenue Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 31 and in note 26, Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that under which it makes equity-settled share-based payments the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments can be reliably measured.
Revenue includes amounts are measured at fair value at the date of grant excluding the receivable for goods and services provided in the normal effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
The fair value course of business, net of trade discounts, VAT and other determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight line sales related taxes.
basis together with a corresponding increase in equity over Energy supply: Revenue is recognised on the basis the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the of energy supplied during the period.
Revenue for energy number of shares that will vest and adjusted for the effect supply activities includes an assessment of energy supplied of non market-based vesting conditions.
to customers between the date of the last meter reading and Fair value is measured using methods appropriate the year end unread.
Unread gas and electricity is estimated to each of the different schemes as follows: using historical consumption patterns, taking into account the industry reconciliation process for total gas and total electricity LTIS A Black-Scholes valuation augmented usage by supplier, and is included in accrued energy income by a Monte Carlo simulation to predict the within debtors.
Total Shareholder Return performance Proprietary energy trading: Revenue comprises net Sharesave Black-Scholes gains and losses both realised settled and unrealised ESOS Black-Scholes using an adjusted option fair value changes from trading in physical and financial life assumption to reflect the possibility energy contracts.
of early exercise Storage services: Storage capacity revenues are recognised evenly over the contract period, whilst commodity The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions revenues for the injection and withdrawal of gas are of IFRS 2, Share-based payment, in respect of equity-settled recognised at the point of gas flowing into or out of the awards and has applied IFRS 2 only to equity-settled awards storage facilities.
granted after 7 November 2002, that were unvested at Home services and fixed fee service contracts: Where 1 January 2005. the Group has an ongoing obligation to provide services, revenues are apportioned on a time basis and amounts billed Foreign currencies in advance are treated as deferred income and excluded from The consolidated Financial Statements are presented in current revenue.
For one-off services, such as installations, sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company revenue is recognised at the date of service provision.
and the Groups presentational currency.
Each entity in the Revenue from fixed fee service contracts is recognised on Group determines its own functional currency and items a straight-line basis over the life of the contract, reflecting included in the Financial Statements of each entity are the benefits receivable by the customer, which span the life measured using that functional currency.
Transactions in of the contract as a result of emergency maintenance being foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional available throughout the contract term.
currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary Gas production: Revenue is recognised on the basis assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are of energy supplied in the period.
retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling Telecommunications: For subscription based services at the balance sheet date.
All differences are included in the with recurring fees, revenue is recognised on a time basis Income Statement for the period with the exception of over the period of service.
For usage based services, revenue exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings that is recognised on the basis of services provided.
Adjustments provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign entity.
are made to defer the relevant portion of unearned amounts These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net billed in advance or to accrue amounts unbilled for services investment, at which time they are recognised in the Income provided at the end of each period.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of Interest income: Interest income is accrued on a historical cost in a currency other than the functional currency time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and of the entity concerned are translated using the exchange at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying value.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 45 Notes to the Financial Statements continued which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment 2.
Summary of significant accounting annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that policies continued the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the For the purpose of presenting consolidated Financial cash-generating unit or groups of cash-generating units is Statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss subsidiary undertakings, jointly controlled entities and is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill associates are translated into pounds sterling at exchange allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
The results of pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset foreign subsidiary undertakings, jointly controlled entities and in the unit.
associates are translated into pounds sterling at average rates On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled of exchange for the relevant period.
Exchange differences entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the arising from the re-translation of the opening net assets and determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
the results are transferred to the Groups foreign currency Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of translation reserve, a separate component of equity, and are transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP reported in the Statement of Total Recognised Income and amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
In the event of the disposal of an undertaking with Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency, the to 1998 has not been reinstated.
cumulative translation difference arising in the foreign currency translation reserve is charged or credited to the Income Other intangible assets Statement on disposal.
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings, recognition at cost.
For purchased application software, for foreign currency swaps and forward exchange contracts used example investments in customer relationship management, to hedge foreign currency net investments in foreign subsidiary cost includes contractors charges, materials, directly undertakings, jointly controlled entities and associates are attributable labour and directly attributable overheads.
taken directly to reserves and are reported in the Statement Capitalisation begins when expenditures for the asset are of Recognised Income and Expense.
All other exchange being incurred and activities that are necessary to prepare movements are recognised in the Income Statement for the asset for use are in progress.
Capitalisation ceases when the period.
substantially all the activities that are necessary to prepare the asset for use are complete.
Amortisation commences at the Business combinations and goodwill point of commercial deployment over the assets estimated The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the useful economic life.
The cost of intangible assets acquired purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured in a business combination is their fair value as at the date of at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control accumulated impairment losses.
The useful lives of intangible of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the assets are assessed to be either finite or indefinite.
The acquirees identifiable assets, assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful economic liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an for recognition under IFRS 3, Business combinations are indication that the intangible asset may be impaired.
recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except The amortisation period and the amortisation method for for non-current assets or disposal Groups that are classified an intangible asset are reviewed at least at each financial as held for resale in accordance with IFRS 5, Non-current year-end.
Changes in the expected useful life or the assets held for sale and discontinued operations, which are expected pattern of consumption of future economic recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
benefits embodied in the asset are accounted for on a Goodwill arising on a business combination represents prospective basis by changing the amortisation period the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest or method, as appropriate, and treated as changes in in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a accounting estimates.
subsidiary, jointly controlled entity or associate at the date of Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost for impairment annually either individually or at the cashand is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated generating unit level.
Such intangibles are not amortised.
If, after re-assessment, the Groups The useful life of an intangible asset with an indefinite useful interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable life is reviewed annually to determine whether indefinite life assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost assessment continues to be supportable.
If not, the change of the business combination, the excess is recognised in the useful life assessment from indefinite to finite is made immediately in the Income Statement.
The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree The amortisation period for the principal categories of is initially measured at the minoritys proportion of the intangible assets are as follows: net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Application software up to 10 years Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for Licences up to 20 years impairment, annually, or more frequently if events or changes Consents up to 25 years in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may be Contractual customer relationships up to 10 years impaired.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Identifiable acquired brand Dyno Indefinite Income Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is Property, plant and equipment allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units or Property, plant and equipment is included in the Balance groups of cash-generating units that expect to benefit from Sheet at cost, less accumulated depreciation and any provisions for impairment.
the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to 46 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued amortised on a straight-line basis over the useful life of the 2.
Summary of significant accounting facility.
The unwinding of the discount on the provision is policies continued included in the Income Statement within interest expense.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other property, plant and equipment, except exploration and production assets, are Leases depreciated on a straight-line basis at rates sufficient to The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains write off the cost, less estimated residual values, of individual a lease, is based on the substance of the arrangement and assets over their estimated useful lives.
The depreciation requires an assessment of whether the fulfilment of the periods for the principal categories of assets are as follows: arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 years Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms Plant 5 to 20 years of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards Power stations up to 30 years of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified Equipment and vehicles 3 to 10 years as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are Storage up to 28 years capitalised and included in property, plant and equipment at their fair value, or if lower, at the present value of the Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception their expected useful economic lives on the same basis of the lease.
The obligations relating to finance leases, net as for owned assets, or where shorter, the lease term.
of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included The carrying values of property, plant and equipment within bank loans and other borrowings, with the amount are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in payable within 12 months included in bank overdrafts and circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not loans within short-term liabilities.
Lease payments are be recoverable.
apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the Residual values and useful lives are re-assessed annually finance lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate and if necessary changes are accounted for prospectively.
of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Exploration, evaluation and production assets Rentals under operating leases are charged to the Exploration and evaluation costs are capitalised using Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term the successful efforts method.
Acquisition costs related of the relevant lease.
to exploration and evaluation activities are capitalised.
Exploration wells are initially capitalised.
If the prospects are Emissions trading scheme and renewable subsequently determined to be unsuccessful on completion obligations certificates of evaluation, the associated costs are expensed in the Granted CO2 emissions allowances received in a period period in which that determination is made.
are initially recognised at nominal value nil value.
Purchased All field development costs are capitalised as property, CO2 emissions allowances are initially recognised at cost plant and equipment.
Such costs relate to the acquisition and purchase price within intangible assets.
A liability is installation of production facilities and include development recognised when the level of emissions exceed the level drilling costs, project-related engineering and other technical of allowances granted.
The liability is measured at the cost services costs.
Property, plant and equipment, including of purchased allowances up to the level of purchased rights and concessions related to production activities, are allowances held, and then at the market price of allowances depreciated from the commencement of production in the ruling at the balance sheet date, with movements in the fields concerned, using the unit of production method, based liability recognised in operating profit.
Forward contracts on all of the proven and probable reserves of those fields.
for the purchase or sale of CO2 emissions allowances are Changes in these estimates are dealt with prospectively.
measured at fair value with gains and losses arising from The net carrying value of fields in production and development changes in fair value recognised in the Income Statement.
The is compared on a field-by-field basis with the likely discounted intangible asset is surrendered at the end of the compliance future net revenues to be derived from the remaining period reflecting the consumption of economic benefit.
An impairment loss is recognised where As a result no amortisation is recorded during the period.
it is considered that recorded amounts are unlikely to be fully Purchased renewable obligation certificates are initially recovered from the net present value of future net revenues.
recognised at cost within intangible assets.
A liability for Exploration and production assets are reviewed annually for the renewables obligation is recognised based on the level indicators of impairment.
of electricity supplied to customers, and is calculated in accordance with percentages set by the UK government Decommissioning costs and the renewable obligation certificate buyout price for Provision is made for the net present value of the estimated that period.
The intangible asset is surrendered at the end cost of decommissioning gas production facilities at the of the compliance period reflecting the consumption of end of the producing lives of fields, and storage facilities economic benefit.
As a result no amortisation is recorded and power stations at the end of the useful life of the during the period.
facilities, based on price levels and technology at the balance sheet date.
Changes in these estimates and changes to the discount rates are dealt with prospectively.
When this provision gives access to future economic benefits, a decommissioning asset is recognised and included within property, plant and equipment.
For gas production facilities and off-shore storage facilities the decommissioning asset is amortised using the unit of production method, based on proven and probable reserves.
For power stations the decommissioning asset is Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 47 Notes to the Financial Statements continued net realisable value, after allowance for redundant and slow 2.
Summary of significant accounting moving items.
policies continued Impairment of tangible and intangible assets Take-or-pay contracts excluding goodwill Where payments are made to external suppliers under At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying take-or-pay obligations for gas not taken, they are treated amounts of its intangible assets and property, plant and as prepayments and included within other receivables, as equipment to determine whether there is any indication that they generate future economic benefits.
those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is Pensions and other post-retirement benefits estimated in order to determine the extent of any impairment The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are schemes.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined independent from other assets, the Group estimates the benefit schemes is determined separately for each scheme recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there in which they occur.
They are recognised outside the Income is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Statement and presented in the Statement of Recognised Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less Income and Expense.
costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the The cost of providing retirement pensions and other estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present benefits is charged to the Income Statement over the periods value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market benefiting from employees service.
Past service cost is assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line not been adjusted.
basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the Balance Sheet represents the present value of the defined carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is reduced benefit obligation of the schemes as adjusted for to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair as an expense immediately.
value of the schemes assets.
An impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimate used to determine the assets Provisions recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present recognised.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is that can be reliably measured, and it is probable that the increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure the carrying amount that would have been determined had required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and no impairment loss been recognised for the asset cashare discounted to present value where the effect is material.
generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due loss is recognised as income immediately.
After such a to the passage of time is recognised in the Income Statement reversal the depreciation amortisation charge, where relevant, included within interest expense.
is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic Taxation basis over its remaining useful life.
Current tax, including UK corporation tax, UK petroleum revenue tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected Non-current assets held for sale and to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that discontinued operations have been enacted, or substantially enacted, by the balance Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held sheet date.
for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary value less costs to sell.
No depreciation is charged in respect differences identified at the balance sheet date, except to the of non-current assets classified as held for sale.
extent that the deferred tax arises from the initial recognition Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as of goodwill if amortisation of goodwill is not deductible for tax held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through purposes or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This transaction which is not a business combination and at the condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly time of the transaction affects neither accounting profit nor probable and the asset or disposal group is available for taxable profit and loss.
Temporary differences are differences immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be between the carrying amount of the Groups assets and committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for liabilities and their tax base.
recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date Deferred tax liabilities may be offset against deferred of classification.
tax assets within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax group.
Any remaining deferred tax asset is recognised Inventories only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be Inventories, excluding inventories of gas and oil, are valued regarded as probable that there will be suitable taxable on a first-in, first-out basis, at the lower of cost or estimated profits, within the same jurisdiction, in the foreseeable net realisable value after allowance for redundant and slow moving items.
Inventories of gas and oil are valued on a future against which the deductible temporary difference weighted average basis, at the lower of cost, or estimated can be utilised.
48 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued d Interest bearing loans and borrowings 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued All interest-bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, except borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference using the effective interest method, except when they are can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary the hedged item in an effective fair value hedge relationship difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
where the carrying value is adjusted to reflect the fair value Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are movements associated with the hedged risks and the fair expected to apply in the periods in which the asset is realised value movements are recognised in the Income Statement.
or liability settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
costs, and any discount or premium.
Measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences expected to fall from the manner in which e Units issued by The Consumers Waterheater the asset or liability is recovered or settled.
Income Fund Units issued by The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund Financial instruments which contain redemption rights providing unit holders with The Group adopted IAS 32, Financial instruments: the right to redeem units back to the Fund for cash or another Disclosure and presentation, and IAS 39, Financial financial asset are treated as a financial liability and recorded instruments: Recognition and measurement from at the present value of the redemption amount.
In accordance with the transition provisions losses related to changes in the carrying value of the financial of IFRS 1, the Group has taken the exemption from restating liability are recognised in the Income Statement as interest comparative information for the effects of IAS 32 and IAS 39. income or interest expense.
The comparative information has been presented in accordance with UK GAAP and the applicable accounting f Other financial assets policies for the comparative period are noted below.
Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative The restatement of the Balance Sheet at 1 January 2005 financial assets that are designated as available-for-sale, and to comply with the requirements of IAS 32 and IAS 39 has are initially recognised at fair value, and are included within been treated as a change in accounting policy as detailed other financial assets within the Balance Sheet.
Available-forin note 3. sale financial assets are subsequently recognised at fair value with gains and losses arising from changes in fair value Accounting policies under IAS 32 and IAS 39 recognised directly in equity and presented in the Statement Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the of Recognised Income and Expense, until the asset is Groups Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is are fide-recognised when the Group no longer has the rights included in the Income Statement for the period.
Impairment to cash flows, the risks and rewards of ownership or control losses recognised in the Income Statement for equity investments classified as available-for-sale are not of the asset.
Financial liabilities are fide-recognised when subsequently reversed through the Income Statement.
the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled Impairment losses recognised in the Income Statement or expires.
for debt instruments classified as available-for-sale are subsequently reversed if an increase in the fair value of the a Trade receivables instrument can be objectively related to an event occurring Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original after the recognition of the impairment loss.
invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amounts.
Provision is made when there is objective evidence g Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting that the Group will not be able to collect the debts.
Bad debts The Group routinely enters into sale and purchase are written off when identified.
transactions for physical gas, power and oil.
The majority of these transactions take the form of contracts that were b Share capital entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs receipt or delivery of the physical position in accordance with directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown the Groups expected sale, purchase or usage requirements, in equity as a deduction from the proceeds received.
Own and are not within the scope of IAS 39. equity instruments that are reacquired treasury shares are Certain physical gas, power and oil purchase and deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in the sales contracts are within the scope of IAS 39 because they Income Statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation net settle or contain written options.
Such contracts are of the Groups own equity instruments.
accounted for as derivatives under IAS 39 and are recognised in the Balance Sheet at fair value.
Gains and losses arising c Cash and cash equivalents from changes in fair value on derivatives that do not qualify for Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and hedge accounting are taken directly to the Income Statement current balances with banks and similar institutions, which for the year.
are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 49 Notes to the Financial Statements continued The gains or losses that are recognised directly in equity are 2.
Summary of significant accounting transferred to the Income Statement in the same period in policies continued which the highly probable forecast transaction affects income, The Group uses a range of derivatives for both trading and for example when the future sale of physical gas or physical to hedge exposures to financial risks, such as interest rate, power actually occurs.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a foreign exchange and energy price risks, arising in the normal non-financial asset or liability, the amounts taken to equity are course of business.
The use of derivative financial instruments transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board asset or liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the of Directors.
Further detail on the Groups risk management hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised policies is included within the Group Financial Review on without replacement or rollover, no longer qualifies for hedge page 20 and in note 34 to the Financial Statements.
accounting, or the Group revokes the designation.
The accounting treatment for derivatives is dependent on At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the whether they are entered into for trading or hedging purposes.
hedging instrument recognised in equity remains in equity A derivative instrument is considered to be used for hedging until the highly probable forecast transaction occurs.
If the purposes when it alters the risk profile of an underlying transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative exposure of the Group in line with the Groups risk gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the management policies and is in accordance with established Income Statement.
guidelines, which require that the hedging relationship is Net investment hedges: Hedges of net investments documented at its inception, ensure that the derivative is in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow highly effective in achieving its objective, and require that hedges.
Any gain or loss on the effective portion of the hedge its effectiveness can be reliably measured.
The Group also is recognised in equity, any gain or loss on the ineffective holds derivatives which are not designated as hedges and portion of the hedge is recognised in the Income Statement.
derivatives that are held for trading.
On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative value of All derivatives are recognised at fair value on the date any gains or losses recognised directly in equity is transferred on which the derivative is entered into and are re-measured to the Income Statement.
to fair value each reporting period.
Derivatives are carried as Embedded derivatives: Derivatives embedded in other assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as the fair value is negative.
Derivative assets and derivative separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are liabilities are offset and presented on a net basis only when not closely related to those of host contracts and the host both a legal right of set-off exists and the intention to net contracts are not carried at fair value, with gains or loss settle the derivative contracts is present.
Recognition of the reported in the Income Statement.
gain or loss that results from changes in fair value depends on the purpose for issuing or holding the derivative.
For Financial instruments accounting policies derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains to 31 December 2004 or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly The following are the key accounting policies for financial to the Income Statement and are included within gross profit instruments under UK GAAP for the comparative period.
or interest income and interest expense.
Gains and losses arising on derivatives entered into for speculative energy a Interest bearing loans, other financial assets trading purposes are presented on a net basis within revenue.
and borrowings For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are All interest-bearing loans, other financial assets and classified as either fair value hedges, cash flow hedges borrowings are initially recognised at cost, being the fair value or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
of the proceeds paid, or for borrowings received, net of issue Fair value hedges: A derivative is classified as a fair costs associated with the borrowing.
After initial recognition, value hedge when it hedges the exposure to changes in the interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
Any gain or loss measured at amortised cost using the effective interest from re-measuring the hedging instrument at fair value is method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Any gain any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is Other financial assets are recognised at the lower of cost and adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and net realisable value.
recognised in the Income Statement.
The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the hedging instrument expires b Derivative financial instruments or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer qualifies for hedge accounting or the Group revokes the The Group uses a range of derivative instruments for both designation.
Any adjustment to the carrying amount of a trading and to manage hedge exposures to financial risks, hedged financial instrument for which the effective interest such as interest rate, foreign exchange and energy price method is used is amortised to the Income Statement.
risks arising in the normal course of business.
The accounting Amortisation may begin as soon as an adjustment exists and treatment for these instruments is dependant on whether they shall begin no later than when the hedged item ceases to be are entered into for trading or non-trading hedging purposes.
adjusted for changes in its fair value attributable to the risk A derivative instrument is considered to be used for hedging being hedged.
purposes when it alters the risk profile of an underlying Cash flow hedges: A derivative is classified as a cash exposure of the Group in line with the Groups risk flow hedge when it hedges exposures to variability in cash management policies.
In addition, there must be a flows that is attributable to a particular risk either associated demonstrable link to an underlying transaction, pool of with a recognised asset, liability or a highly probable forecast transactions, or specified future transaction or transactions.
The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging Specified future transactions must be reasonably certain instrument, which is effective is recognised directly in to arise for the derivative to be accounted for as a hedge.
equity while any ineffectiveness is recognised in the Income Statement.
50 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2.
Changes in accounting policy policies continued The fair value of energy derivatives accounted for as cash flow The Group adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 from 1 January 2005. hedges have been classified as falling due within one year The main adjustments arising are as follows.
and falling due after one year by reference to the maturity of the contract.
Derivative instruments are accounted The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund for as follows: Centrica holds a 19.9% interest in The Consumers Energy trading activities: The Group engages in swaps, Waterheater Income Fund.
The Funds units are traded on futures, forwards and options in gas, electricity and weather the Toronto Stock Exchange.
The Fund is fully consolidated for trading purposes.
Financial and physical positions are under both UK GAAP and IFRS to reflect our partnership marked-to-market using externally derived market prices.
The minority interest of 80.1% was accounted Marked-to-market gains and losses are recognised immediately in the Income Statement within revenue.
The for as non-equity minority interests under UK GAAP.
Units corresponding fair value debtors or creditors are included of the Fund held by third parties contain redemption rights, within the Balance Sheet.
which provide the holder of the units with the right to put the Energy hedging activities: The Group engages in gas, units back to the Fund.
These are a common feature of such electricity, oil and weather derivatives to hedge against price funds in Canada.
There have been no redemptions of units exposures arising within the energy procurement, supply and to date and future redemption is considered very unlikely retail operations.
The derivatives are matched to the specific because the terms and conditions of redemption are exposures which they are designed to reduce, with gains unfavourable.
IAS 32 requires units with such redemption and losses recognised in the Income Statement in the rights to be recorded as a financial liability and that the same period as the income and expenses of the underlying amount recorded reflects the value of the redemption hedged transactions.
The redemption obligation value is based on Treasury hedging activities: The Group uses interest the price at which these units trade on the Toronto Stock rate swaps, forward rate agreements, foreign currency swaps Exchange.
At 1 January 2005 the value of the financial liability and forward exchange contracts to manage the exposures is 244 million.
The impact of implementing IAS 32 at this to interest rates arising on underlying debt and cash positions, date was a reclassification of the non-equity minority interest or probable future commitments and foreign exchange risks of 164 million to financial liabilities and a charge to the profit arising on foreign currency assets and borrowings, foreign and loss reserve at 1 January 2005 of 80 million.
Future currency forecasted transactions and the retranslation changes in the financial liability will be charged or credited of overseas net investments.
All instruments are used to interest in the Income Statement.
for hedging purposes in line with the Groups risk management policies.
Derivative contracts and Centricas business model Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest IAS 39 covers the treatment of financial instruments, which rate swaps and forward rate agreements are recognised includes most energy and commodity contracts.
The first time as adjustments to the net interest charge over the term application of IAS 39 is complex.
IAS 39 requires fair value of the contracts.
accounting with limited exceptions, most notably in respect Currency swap agreements and forward exchange of contracts which are entered into and continue to be held contracts are retranslated at the rates ruling in the agreements for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of a non-financial and contracts.
Resulting gains or losses are offset against item in accordance with an entitys expected purchase, sale foreign exchange gains or losses on the related borrowings or usage requirements, referred to as own use.
Own use or, where the instrument is used to hedge a committed future contracts are outside the scope of IAS 39 and are recognised transaction, are deferred until the transaction occurs.
Where under the accrual method of accounting.
IAS 39 contains used to hedge overseas net investments, gains or losses are restrictions on contracts achieving own use treatment.
recorded in the Statement of Total Recognised Income and Where energy and commodity contracts do not meet the Expense, with interest recorded in the Income Statement.
own use criteria, it is likely that under IAS 39 they are treated Where derivatives used to manage interest rate risk or as derivative contracts.
to hedge other anticipated cash flows are terminated before IAS 39 requires all derivatives to be recognised at the underlying debt matures or the hedged transaction fair value with gains and losses arising from changes in occurs, the resulting gain or loss is recognised on a basis fair value recognised in the Income Statement, unless the that matches the timing and accounting treatment of the derivatives have been designated into effective cash flow underlying debt or hedged transaction.
When an anticipated hedge accounting relationships.
Where contracts are transaction is no longer likely to occur or finance debt is designated into such hedging relationships, the portion of terminated before maturity, any deferred gain or loss that the gain or loss on the hedging instrument, which is effective, has arisen on the related derivative is recognised in the is recognised directly in equity in a hedging reserve, while Income Statement, together with any gain or loss on the terminated item.
any ineffectiveness is recognised in the Income Statement.
The gains or losses recognised directly in reserves are transferred to the Income Statement in the same period in which the highly probable forecast transaction, which is being hedged, affects the Income Statement.
Excluding our trading entities, which fair value their trading positions with movements in fair value reflected in the Income Statement, our business model is to buy gas and power to meet the demand of our customers, or to meet demand in our equity power stations.
Due to the unpredictability of demand and a limit to the flexibility Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 51 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Subsidiary The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund 3.
Changes in accounting policies continued The Group holds a 19.9% interest 2004: 19.9% in The inherent in our long-term contract portfolio, we use the Consumers Waterheater Income Fund the Fund, through wholesale market to optimise our portfolio on a daily basis.
its wholly owned subsidiary, Direct Energy Marketing Limited.
Many of our physical energy and commodity contracts The Funds units are traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
meet the criteria for treatment as own use and will continue The Group has determined that the Fund is a subsidiary and to be accrual accounted for under IFRS as they were under has included the Fund on a consolidated basis within the UK GAAP.
However, circumstances set out in IAS 39 where Groups Financial Statements.
Units in the Fund held by third own use treatment is not permitted include, most notably: parties contain redemption rights providing the holder of such units with the rights to put the units back to the Fund for cash Contracts where we use inherent optionality to take or another financial asset.
The Group has determined that advantage of pricing opportunities, for example the ability to units issued by the Fund, which contain such redemption take volume under a contract in excess of variable demand rights are financial liabilities.
and sell it into the wholesale trading market.
This is known as net settling and IAS 39 requires such contracts to be Financial liability third party limited partnership interest accounted for as derivatives: The Group formed The Centrica Gas Production LP, a Variable volume contracts where our customers receive limited partnership, during the year.
Certain Morecambe gas at a hub from which they themselves can subsequently gas field assets have been contributed to the partnership by trade.
These contracts are deemed to contain written Hydrocarbon Resources Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary options and IAS 39 requires such contracts to be of the Group.
On 2 December 2005 a bank became a limited accounted for as derivatives.
The Centrica Group retains full control of the Morecambe gas fields as Hydrocarbon In addition, IAS 39 requires contracts with similar terms to be Resources Limited retains legal ownership of the Morecambe treated consistently.
It is therefore not permitted under IAS 39 licences and is also the general partner and asset manager of to treat contracts that are similar to net settled contracts, for the partnership.
The partnership is included on a consolidated example because they have standardised, exchange-accepted basis within the Groups Financial Statements.
The bank is terms, as own use.
However, such derivative contracts can one of the limited partners and is entitled to a specified share be designated into hedging relationships for instance to hedge of the pre-tax partnership profits arising from South against price risk on highly probable forecasted purchases of Morecambe after taking account of associated petroleum gas or power to satisfy customer demand.
revenue tax and any losses.
The Group has also entered into IAS 39 requires derivative contracts to be recognised a Put and Call option arrangement with the bank over the at their fair value.
The fair value unwinds over time through banks limited partnership interest.
Any exercise of the option the Income Statement.
As a consequence, over the lifetime of is contingent upon the occurrence of certain events up to a contract, the net charge or credit to the Income Statement 2 December 2012, and thereafter may occur at any time.
will be the same as under UK GAAP, but the timing of The Group has determined that the banks limited partnership charges and credits to the Income Statement will be different, interest should be accounted for as a financial liability which results in volatility in earnings.
recognised initially at fair value and subsequently carried at The overall financial impact of adopting IAS 39 has amortised cost, consistent with treatment as an interestbeen to reduce opening net assets at 1 January 2005 by bearing borrowing.
99 million, comprising 167 million charge to the profit and loss reserve and 68 million credited to the hedging reserve.
Emissions trading scheme The combined impact of adopting IAS 32 and IAS 39 The Group has been subject to the European Emissions on the Balance Sheet at 1 January 2005 was a 343 million Trading Scheme EU ETS since 1 January 2005.
IFRIC 3, reduction to opening net assets, the movement of which has Emission rights was withdrawn by the IASB in June 2005, and been recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and has not yet been replaced by definitive guidance.
The Group Expense, and is presented in detail in note 38 b. has adopted an accounting policy, which recognises CO 2 emissions liabilities when the level of emissions exceeds the level of allowances granted by the Government in the period.
The liability is measured at the cost of purchased allowances up to the level of purchased allowances held, and then at 4.
Critical accounting judgements market price of allowances ruling at the balance sheet date.
and key sources of estimation Movements in the liability are reflected within operating profit.
uncertainty Forward contracts for sales and purchases of allowances are measured at fair value.
Critical judgements in applying the Groups Petroleum revenue tax PRT accounting policies The definitions of an income tax in IAS 12, Income taxes, In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies have led management to judge that PRT should be treated as described in note 2, management has made the following consistently with other taxes.
The charge for the year, is judgements that have the most significant effect on the presented within taxation on profit from continuing operations amounts recognised in the Financial Statements apart from in the Income Statement.
Deferred amounts are included those involving estimations which are dealt with below.
within deferred tax assets and liabilities in the Balance Sheet.
Finance lease Third-party power station tolling arrangement The Group has entered into a long-term tolling arrangement with the Spalding power station and has determined that, based on the substance of the contractual terms, the arrangement is a finance lease.
52 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 4.
Critical accounting judgements and The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension key sources of estimation uncertainty schemes.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined continued benefit schemes is determined separately for each scheme Key sources of estimation uncertainty under the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, in which they occur.
The key assumptions used for the that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment actuarial valuation are based on the Groups best estimate of to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the the variables that will determine the ultimate cost of providing next financial year, are discussed below.
post-employment benefits, on which further detail is provided in note 31.
Impairment of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets The Group determines whether goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are impaired at least on an annual basis.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cashgenerating units to which goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles are allocated.
Estimating the value-in-use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash-generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
Further detail on the assumptions used in determining value-in-use calculations is provided in note 15.
Revenue recognition unread gas and electricity meters Revenue for energy supply activities includes an assessment of energy supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading and the year end unread.
Unread gas and electricity is estimated using historical consumption patterns taking into account the industry reconciliation process for total gas and total electricity usage by supplier.
The industry reconciliation process is required as differences arise between the estimated quantity of gas and electricity the Group deems to have supplied and billed customers, and the estimated quantity the industry system operator deems the individual suppliers, including the Group, to have supplied to customers.
The reconciliation process can result in either a higher or lower value of industry deemed supply than has been billed to customers, but in practice tends to result in a higher value of deemed supply.
Management estimate the level of recovery which will be achieved either through subsequent customer billing or through the developing industry settlement process.
Determination of fair values energy derivatives Derivative contracts are carried in the Balance Sheet at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded in the Income Statement.
Fair values of energy derivatives are estimated by reference in part to published price quotations in active markets and in part by using valuation techniques.
More detail on the assumptions used in determining fair valuations is provided in note 34 b. Renegotiation provision In 1997 Centrica renegotiated certain long term take-or-pay gas contracts, which would have resulted in commitments to pay for gas that would be excess to requirements and or at prices above likely market rates.
Provision has been made covering the net present cost of estimated payments to be made resulting from the renegotiations including one due for settlement in 2008 based on published estimates of reserves in a group of third-party fields.
It is reasonably possible, based on existing knowledge, that published estimates of reserves within the next financial year that are different from existing reserve estimates could require a material adjustment to the carrying value of the provision.
Further detail of the provision is provided in note 24.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 53 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 5.
Segmental analysis Primary reporting format business segments The Groups business segments are distinguished on the basis of the internal management reporting system, and reflect the day-to-day management of the business.
The products and services included within each segment are described in the Operating and Financial Review, on pages 8 to 20.
The Group previously classified the British Gas communications business within the British Gas Services segment.
The results of the business have been reclassified within the Onetel segment for 2005 and the comparatives restated accordingly.
The Group disposed of the Onetel group of companies on 30 December 2005 as detailed in note 29.
The results of the segment have been treated as discontinued and comparative information for 2004 in the Income Statement and related notes has been restated accordingly.
2005 2004 Gross Less interGross Less intersegment segment Group segment segment Group revenue revenue i, ii revenue revenue revenue i, ii revenue a Revenue m m m m m m Continuing operations: British Gas Residential Energy 6,032 6,032 5,901 5,901 British Gas Services 1,024 1,024 943 943 British Gas Residential 7,056 7,056 6,844 6,844 British Gas Business 1,510 1,510 1,200 1,200 Industrial sales and wholesaling 1,460 674 786 1,961 1,156 805 Gas production 1,365 1,182 183 1,150 1,041 109 Accord energy trading 42 42 17 17 Centrica Energy 2,867 1,856 1,011 3,128 2,197 931 Centrica Storage 253 58 195 164 31 133 North American Energy and Related Services 3,552 3,552 2,242 2,242 European Energy 119 119 10 2 8 Other operations 5 5 3 3 15,362 1,914 13,448 13,591 2,230 11,361 Discontinued operations: The AA 637 637 Onetel 344 2 342 283 3 280 344 2 342 920 3 917 i Inter-segment revenue is derived from recharges of energy procurement costs between Centrica Energy and other Group segments.
Gas purchase costs are appropriately allocated to the revenue generating streams using a method which best reflects the consumption of gas within the Group.
Electricity costs are recharged using a method which reflects the actual cost within the Group.
ii Inter-segment revenue arising within Centrica Storage represents the provision of storage facilities to other Group companies, provided on an arms length basis.
Group revenue is derived from the following activities: 2005 2004 m m Sales of goods 11,996 10,180 Rendering of services 1,452 1,181 Group revenue 13,448 11,361 54 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 5.
Segmental analysis continued Operating profit loss Operating profit loss Share of result of joint ventures before exceptional items and Exceptional items and after exceptional items and and associates included certain re-measurements certain re-measurements certain re-measurements within operating profit year ended 31 December year ended 31 December year ended 31 December year ended 31 December 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 b Operating profit m m m m m m m m Continuing operations: British Gas Residential Energy 90 242 570 6 660 236 2 3 British Gas Services 111 72 15 96 72 British Gas Residential 201 314 555 6 756 308 2 3 British Gas Business 77 68 166 243 68 Industrial sales and wholesaling 156 20 382 538 20 29 48 Gas production 1,020 779 28 51 992 728 Accord energy trading 39 14 17 56 14 Centrica Energy 903 773 393 51 510 722 29 48 Centrica Storage 154 69 1 155 69 North American Energy and Related Services 185 132 138 323 132 European Energy 9 5 9 5 6 5 Other operations 2 1 23 42 21 41 1,513 1,362 444 99 1,957 1,263 37 56 Discontinued operations: The AA 80 39 911 39 991 12 Onetel 12 3 5 5 7 2 12 83 34 906 46 989 12 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Amortisation of intangibles year ended 31 December year ended 31 December 2005 2004 2005 2004 c Other non-cash expenses m m m m Continuing operations: British Gas Residential Energy 16 68 48 20 British Gas Services 16 15 4 1 British Gas Residential 32 83 52 21 British Gas Business 5 5 1 2 Industrial sales and wholesaling 81 44 1 Gas production 193 284 Accord energy trading Centrica Energy 274 328 1 Centrica Storage 19 18 1 North American Energy and Related Services 76 56 13 13 European Energy 9 Other operations 406 490 76 37 Discontinued operations: The AA 2 2 Onetel 6 6 1 1 6 8 1 3 The results of discontinued operations before losses profits on disposal of the businesses included costs of 330 million 2004: 922 million and a tax charge of 1 million 2004: 9 million.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 55 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 5.
Segmental analysis continued Capital expenditure on Segment assets including property, plant and Capital expenditure on other share of joint ventures i Segment liabilities ii equipment note 16 intangible assets note 14 31 December 31 December year ended 31 December year ended 31 December 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 d Assets and liabilities m m m m m m m m Continuing operations: British Gas Residential Energy 1,948 1,346 621 1,208 14 25 58 39 British Gas Services 466 258 191 197 10 31 19 18 British Gas Residential 2,414 1,604 812 1,405 24 56 77 57 British Gas Business 981 476 141 259 7 10 16 4 Industrial sales and wholesaling 5,459 3,078 3,797 502 77 482 62 107 Gas production 1,052 818 1,556 1,207 391 48 1 Accord energy trading 1,533 914 1,831 992 Centrica Energy 8,044 4,810 7,184 2,701 468 530 63 107 Centrica Storage 451 436 93 80 17 8 North American Energy and Related Services 3,046 2,074 941 615 109 55 6 11 European Energy 67 69 59 3 2 Corporate and unallocated assets liabilities 2,543 3,089 5,874 5,285 18 32 10 Total continuing operations 17,546 12,558 15,104 10,348 643 691 174 179 Discontinued operations: The AA 7 2 Onetel 159 61 7 3 Total discontinued operations 159 61 7 10 2 Less inter-segment receivables payables 4,256 2,969 4,256 2,969 13,290 9,748 10,848 7,440 650 701 174 181 i Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant, equipment, goodwill, other intangible assets, investments in joint ventures and associates, inventories, derivatives, receivables and operating cash.
Unallocated assets comprise deferred tax attached to unallocable assets and liabilities, investments and derivatives designated as hedges of borrowings.
The aggregate investment in each joint venture for each segment is analysed in note 17. ii Segment liabilities comprise operating liabilities.
Unallocated liabilities comprise items such as taxation, corporate borrowings, the Group pension deficit which is not allocable between segments on a reasonable basis and deferred tax attached to unallocable assets and liabilities.
Corporate overheads are allocated to reportable segments for Group reporting purposes based on annual revenues and operating expenditure.
Secondary reporting format geographical segments The Group operates in three main geographical areas: Capital expenditure on property, plant and Capital expenditure on other Total assets equipment note 16 intangible assets note 14 Revenue based on location of assets based on location of assets based on location of assets year ended 31 December 31 December year ended 31 December year ended 31 December 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 m m m m m m m m Continuing operations: UK 9,643 9,009 9,866 7,423 534 636 166 168 Rest of Europe 253 110 242 69 2 North America 3,552 2,242 3,182 2,092 109 55 6 11 13,448 11,361 13,290 9,584 643 691 174 179 Discontinued operations: UK 342 917 164 7 10 2 56 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 6.
Costs of continuing operations 2005 2004 m m Revenue 13,448 11,361 Certain re-measurements note 7 456 Exceptional items note 7 11 99 Transportation and distribution costs 2,541 2,472 Engineer costs 550 529 Other costs relating to energy consumption and provision of services 6,387 4,684 Depreciation and amortisation note 5 482 527 Staff costs note 8 1,235 1,131 Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 13 1 Profit on disposal of other intangible assets 4 15 Write-down of inventory 3 1 i Impairment of trade receivables 84 147 Foreign exchange gains 3 Other operating costs 711 578 Share of profits in joint ventures and associates, net of interest and taxation note 5 37 56 Operating profit from continuing operations 1,957 1,263 ii iii Auditors remuneration Audit services Statutory audit Company 0.2 0.2 Subsidiary undertakings 2.4 2.3 iv Audit-related regulatory reporting 1.6 1.5 Further assurance services 1.6 0.9 Tax services Tax compliance services 0.1 Tax advisory services 0.2 Other services 0.1 0.1 5.9 5.3 Included in cost of sales are transportation and distribution costs, engineer costs, depreciation costs of 256 million 2004: 256 million and staff costs of 59 million 2004: 21 million.
Operating costs consist entirely of administration expenses.
i Impairment of trade receivables relates to bad debt write offs, and excludes any recovery or related administrative costs.
ii Included in auditors remuneration, excluding the statutory audit, were non-audit fees payable arising in the UK of 3.2 million 2004: 2.6 million.
In addition, the Groups auditors acted as auditors to the Groups pension schemes.
The appointment of auditors to the Groups pension schemes and the fees paid in respect of these audits are agreed by the trustees of each scheme, who act independently from the management of the Group.
iii It is the Groups policy to seek competitive tenders for all major consultancy and advisory projects.
Appointments are made taking into account other factors including expertise and experience.
In addition, the Board has approved a detailed policy defining the types of work for which the auditors can tender and the approvals required.
The auditors have been engaged on assignments additional to their statutory audit duties where their expertise and experience with the Group are particularly important, including tax advice and due diligence reporting on acquisitions.
iv Substantially in respect of the implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards.
Exceptional items and certain re-measurements 2005 2004 m m a Exceptional items recognised in continuing operations i Contract renegotiation 42 ii Profit on disposal of business 47 iii Business restructuring costs 100 100 iv Gas field impairment 50 v Renegotiation provision 51 Total exceptional items recognised in continuing operations 11 99 b Exceptional items recognised in discontinued operations iii Business restructuring costs 5 vi Profit on disposal of the AA 39 911 vii Loss on disposal of Onetel 5 Total exceptional items recognised in discontinued operations 34 906 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 57 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 7.
Exceptional items and certain re-measurements continued 2005 2004 m m viii c Certain re-measurements recognised in continuing operations Net gains arising on delivery of contracts 140 Net gains arising on market price movements and new contracts 299 Net gains arising on proprietary trades in relation to which cross-border transportation or ix transmission capacity is held 17 Total certain re-measurements recognised in continuing operations 456 i The profit in 2005 arises on the renegotiation of certain long-term take-or-pay contracts during the period.
A benefit of 42 million has been recognised.
A deferred tax charge of 12 million has been recognised in respect of the gain.
ii The profit in 2005 arises on the disposal of British Gas Connections Limited on 20 May 2005 for which cash consideration of 90 million was received, resulting in a pre-tax operating profit of 47 million note 29.
The disposal of shares qualifies for substantial shareholdings exemption and consequently no tax charge has arisen in relation to the profit.
iii Business restructuring costs in 2005 comprise 100 million resulting from staff reductions at the corporate centre 23 million, British Gas Residential Energy 43 million, British Gas Services 15 million, British Gas Business 1 million and changes to the property portfolio 18 million.
A tax credit of 23 million has been recognised in respect of these costs.
Business restructuring costs in 2004 comprise 105 million resulting from staff reductions at the corporate centre 23 million, Onetel 5 million and Centrica Energy 1 million, changes to the property portfolio 19 million as well as the acceleration of elements of the British Gas transformation programme 57 million.
A tax credit of 26 million was recognised in connection with these costs and those discussed in iv and v below.
iv In 2004 unforeseen water break-through into the Rose well resulted in the well being shut in.
A work over of the well to isolate the water producing zone was successful.
Due to water ingress it was anticipated that the maximum recoverable volume is 25bcf.
This resulted in an impairment charge of 50 million.
v The provision reduction in 2004 related to certain long-term take-or-pay contracts renegotiated in 1997 by Centrica, which would have resulted in commitments to pay for gas that would be excess to requirements and or at prices above likely market rates.
A provision was made covering the net present cost of estimated further payments resulting from those renegotiations including one due for future settlement in 2008 based on the reserves in a group of third-party fields.
Published estimates of these reserves during 2004 indicated a reduction from the 1997 forecast level of reserves.
The provision was reduced by 51 million based on a conservative view of the revised reserve levels.
vi Adjustments to finalise the consideration received by the Group on the disposal of the AA have led to the recognition of a further 39 million profit in 2005, net of a tax charge of 11 million.
The profit on disposal of discontinued operations in 2004 relates to the disposal of 100% of the share capital of the AA, net of a 13 million tax credit, which arose on certain costs qualifying for tax relief.
vii The Group disposed of its 100% shareholding in Centrica Telecommunications Limited, Onetel Limited, Telco Holdings Limited and Awardmodel Limited and their subsidiaries Onetel, on 30 December 2005 realising a loss of 5 million note 29 ii b.
No tax has arisen in relation to the loss.
viii Certain re-measurements included within gross margin comprise re-measurement arising on our energy procurement activities and on proprietary trades in relation to which cross-border transportation or transmission capacity is held but not on the other activities of our proprietary trading businesses.
IAS 39 was adopted from 1 January 2005 and therefore there is no comparative for certain re-measurements for 2004. ix Under IAS 39, cross-border trades are marked to prices in the local market as opposed to prices in the most favourable market which could be accessed through the cross-border transmission and transportation capacity held against such trades.
The associated capacity has not been marked-to-market.
Directors and employees 2005 2004 a Employee costs m m Wages and salaries 1,031 1,093 Social security costs 83 107 Other pension and retirement benefits costs note 31 136 168 Executive Share Option Scheme 3 2 Long Term Incentive Scheme 7 7 Sharesave Scheme 10 8 Share Incentive Plan 2 2 1,272 1,387 Details of Directors remuneration, share options, Long Term Incentive Scheme interests and pension entitlements in the Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 36 form part of these Financial Statements.
Details of employee share schemes are given on pages 24, 30, and 31 and in note 26.
Details of the remuneration of key management personnel are given in note 33.
58 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 8.
Directors and employees continued Wages and salaries exclude redundancy costs of 68 million 2004: 69 million which have been classified as restructuring costs included within exceptional items.
2005 2004 b Average number of employees during the year Number Number British Gas Residential 24,947 24,098 British Gas Business 1,438 1,369 Centrica Energy 884 816 Centrica Storage 182 163 North American Energy and Related Services 5,261 3,187 Other operations 1,781 1,881 The AA to disposal on 30 September 2004 10,683 Onetel to disposal on 30 December 2005 917 897 35,410 43,094 UK 29,948 39,522 Rest of Europe 201 385 North America 5,261 3,187 35,410 43,094 9.
Net interest 2005 2004 Interest Interest Interest Interest expense income Total expense income Total m m m m m m Cost of servicing net debt excluding non-recourse debt Interest income 6060 67 67 i Interest expense on bank loans and overdrafts 87 87 56 56 Interest expense on finance leases including tolling agreements 97 97 88 88 ii Fair value losses gains on hedges 5 5 Fair value losses gains on other derivatives 11 25 14 200 90 110 144 67 77 Interest arising on non-recourse debt Interest expense on non-recourse debt 11 11 10 10 Distributions to unit holders of The Consumers iii Waterheater Income Fund 20 20 31 31 10 10 Other interest Notional interest arising on discounted items 14 14 28 28 iv Interest on supplier early payment arrangements 1212 15 15 v Interest on customer finance arrangements 2 2 4 4 16 12 4 32 15 17 Interest expense income 247 102 145 186 82 104 i Includes 19 million 2004: nil interest payable on borrowings related to South Morecambe production as detailed in note 34 c iv.
ii Includes fair value losses gains on both derivatives designated into fair value hedging relationships and bonds designated as the hedged item.
iii Distributions to unit holders of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund were treated as distributions to non-equity minority interests prior to the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 on 1 January 2005 note 3. iv Interest on supplier early payment arrangements arose on the prepayment of gas transportation charges.
v The interest cost relates to subsidised credit arrangements provided to customers purchasing central heating installation.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 59 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 10.
Tax 2005 2004 a Analysis of tax charge for the year m m The tax charge comprises: Current tax UK corporation tax 368 280 UK petroleum revenue tax 400 328 i, ii Tax on exceptional items 23 17 Foreign tax 22 22 Adjustments in respect of prior years 62 44 Total current tax 705 569 Deferred tax Current year 10 16 Prior year 22 27 ii, iii, iv Tax on exceptional items and certain re-measurements 161 9 UK petroleum revenue tax 27 36 Foreign deferred tax 17 14 Total deferred tax 139 48 Total tax on profit from continuing operations 844 521 i The tax credit arising on the business restructuring costs in 2005 recognised in continuing operations was 23 million note 7 iii.
ii The tax credit arising on the exceptional items in 2004 recognised in continuing operations was 26 million note 7 iii.
iii The tax charge arising on the re-measurement of energy contracts was 149 million note 7 viii.
iv The tax charge arising on contract renegotiation in 2005 was 12 million note 7 i. v Tax on items taken directly to equity is disclosed in note 27.
Corporation tax is charged at 30% 2004: 30% of the estimated assessable profit for the year.
The Group earns its profits primarily in the UK, therefore the tax rate used for tax on profit on ordinary activities is the standard rate for UK corporation tax, currently 30%.
A supplementary charge of 10% is also currently applicable on the Groups UK upstream profits.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
In December 2005, the UK government announced an increase in the supplementary charge levied on upstream profits from 10% to 20%, effective from 1 January 2006.
At 31 December 2005 the tax rate change was not substantively enacted.
The deferred tax expense would have increased by approximately 8 million and the overall tax rate by 0.4%, had the change of tax rate been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
b Factors affecting the tax charge for the year The differences between the total tax shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax to the profit before tax is as follows: 2005 2004 m m Profit from continuing operations before tax 1,812 1,159 Less: share of profits less losses in joint ventures and associates, net of interest and taxation 37 56 Group profit from continuing operations before tax 1,775 1,103 Tax on profit from continuing operations at standard UK corporation tax rate of 30% 2004: 30% 533 331 Effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 9 12 Adjustments in respect of prior years 84 17 Movement in unrecognised deferred tax assets 63 39 UK petroleum revenue tax rates 261 175 Overseas tax rates 15 4 Supplementary charge applicable to upstream profits 61 55 Exceptional profit on disposal of British Gas Connections Limited 14 Group tax charge on profit from continuing operations 844 521 60 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 11.
Dividends 2005 2004 m m Prior year final dividend of 6.1p 2004: 3.7p per ordinary share 220 230 Interim dividend of 3.1p 2004: 2.5p per ordinary share 120 105 Special dividend of 25.0p per ordinary share 1,051 340 1,386 The prior year final dividend was paid on 15 June 2005 and the 2005 interim dividend was paid on 16 November 2005.
The special dividend was paid on 17 November 2004.
The Directors propose a final dividend of 7.4 pence per share totalling 268 million for the year ended 31 December 2005.
The dividend will be submitted for formal approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 19 May 2006.
These Financial Statements do not reflect this dividend payable, which will be accounted for in shareholders equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ending 31 December 2006.
Earnings per ordinary share Basic earnings per ordinary share has been calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to equity holders of the parent Company for the year of 1,012 million 2004: 1,591 million by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year of 3,688 million 2004: 4,184 million.
The number of shares excluded 3 million ordinary shares 2004: 18 million, being the weighted average number of the Companys own shares held in the employee share trust which are treated as treasury shares.
There was a share repurchase programme in operation during the year as described in note 25.
The Directors believe that the presentation of an adjusted basic earnings per ordinary share, being the basic earnings per ordinary share adjusted for certain re-measurements and exceptional items assists with understanding the underlying performance of the Group.
The reconciliation of basic to adjusted basic earnings per ordinary share is as follows: 2005 2004 Pence per Pence per ordinary ordinary a Continuing and discontinued operations m share m share Earnings basic 1,012 27.4 1,591 38.0 Net exceptional items after tax note 7 34 0.9 833 19.9 Certain re-measurement gains and losses after tax note 7 306 8.3 Earnings adjusted basic 672 18.2 758 18.1 Earnings diluted 1,012 27.0 1,591 37.4 2005 2004 Pence per Pence per ordinary ordinary b Continuing operations m share m share Earnings basic 967 26.2 618 14.8 Net exceptional items after tax note 7 73 1.7 Certain re-measurement gains and losses after tax note 7 306 8.3 Earnings adjusted basic 661 17.9 691 16.5 Earnings diluted 967 25.8 618 14.5 2005 2004 Pence per Pence per ordinary ordinary c Discontinued operations m share m share Earnings basic 45 1.2 973 23.3 Earnings diluted 45 1.2 973 22.9 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 61 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 12.
Earnings per ordinary share continued Certain re-measurements within gross margin comprise re-measurement arising on our energy procurement activities and proprietary trades in relation to which cross-border transportation or transmission capacity is held but not on the other activities of our proprietary trading businesses.
Certain re-measurements included within interest comprise re-measurement of the publicly traded units of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund.
All other re-measurement is included within results before exceptional items and certain re-measurement.
In addition to basic and adjusted earnings per ordinary share, information is presented for diluted earnings per ordinary share.
Under this presentation, no adjustments are made to the reported earnings for either 2005 or 2004, but the weighted average number of shares used as the denominator is adjusted.
The adjustments relate to notional share awards made to employees under the Long Term Incentive Scheme.
The share options granted to employees under the share schemes were as follows: 2005 2004 million million shares shares Weighted average number of shares used in calculation of basic earnings per ordinary share 3,688 4,184 Estimated vesting of Long Term Incentive Scheme shares 24 26 Dilutive effect of shares to be issued at a discount to market value under the Sharesave Schemes 34 37 Potentially dilutive shares issuable under the Executive Share Option Scheme 5 4 Weighted average number of shares used in the calculation of diluted earnings per ordinary share 3,751 4,251 13.
Goodwill m Cost 1 January 2005 1,230 i Acquisitions 109 ii Disposals note 29 110 Exchange adjustments 130 31 December 2005 1,359 Aggregate amortisation and impairment 1 January 2005 181 ii Disposals note 29 13 Exchange adjustments 21 31 December 2005 189 Net book value 31 December 2005 1,170 i Goodwill arising of 109 million, comprises 101 million relating to acquisitions detailed in note 29 i, and 8 million relating to adjustments to deferred consideration on prior year acquisitions.
ii Goodwill disposed of net book value of 97 million relates to the disposal of Onetel, as detailed in note 29 ii b, and comprises the goodwill relating to the acquisitions in prior years of Onetel and Telco Global, and of Rednet during 2005 note 29 i c. m Cost 1 January 2004 2,004 Acquisitions 229 Disposals 991 Exchange adjustments 12 31 December 2004 1,230 Aggregate amortisation and impairment 1 January 2004 390 Impairment losses for the year 4 Disposals 211 Exchange adjustments 2 31 December 2004 181 Net book value 31 December 2004 1,049 62 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 13.
Goodwill continued The net book value of goodwill at 31 December related to the following acquisitions: 2005 2004 m m Direct Energy 328 285 Energy America 26 24 Enron Direct Electricity Direct 133 133 Onetel 45 Telco Global 48 Enbridge Services 205 177 WTU CPL 210 185 ATCO 46 40 Dyno-Rod 17 17 Residential Services Group 77 67 Oxxio 84 Humber 14 Other 30 28 1,170 1,049 14.
Other intangible assets Renewable Application obligation software iii certificates Brands i Other Total m m m m m Cost 1 January 2005 419 71 57 39 586 Additions acquired from a third party 41 55 3 99 Additions directly attributable costs 75 75 ii Acquisitions note 29 1 32 33 Disposals 5 78 83 Disposal of subsidiary note 29 3 3 Exchange adjustments 7 1 8 31 December 2005 535 48 57 75 715 Aggregate amortisation and impairment 1 January 2005 67 1 68 Charge for the year 67 10 77 Disposals 4 4 Disposal of subsidiary note 29 1 1 Exchange adjustments 6 6 31 December 2005 135 11 146 Net book value 31 December 2005 400 48 57 64 569 Amortisation arising on application software and other intangible assets is charged to operating costs in the Income Statement.
i Included within brands is the Dyno-Rod brand, acquired on the acquisition of the Dyno group of companies during 2004.
In accordance with IAS 38 paragraph 88, management has ascribed the brand an indefinite useful life because there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the Dyno brand is expected to generate net cash inflows.
In reaching this determination, management have reviewed potential threats from competition, the risks of technological obsolescence and the expected usage of the brand by management.
ii Included within acquisitions of other intangible assets is a reduction of 3 million arising from revisions to the fair values of intangibles acquired with acquisitions in 2004. iii Included within application software is amounts for customer relationship management systems.
At 31 December 2005 the net book value of these systems is 323 million 2004: 268 million.
The remaining amortisation periods of these systems range from 5 to 10 years.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 63 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 14.
Other intangible assets continued Renewable Application obligation software certificates Brands i Other Total m m m m m Cost 1 January 2004 380 40 420 Additions acquired from a third party 4 106 110 Additions directly attributable costs 71 71 Acquisitions 6 57 38 101 Disposals 5 75 80 Disposal of subsidiary 39 39 Exchange adjustments 1 1 31 December 2004 418 71 57 38 584 Aggregate amortisation and impairment 1 January 2004 32 32 Charge for the year 40 40 Disposal of subsidiary 6 6 31 December 2004 66 66 Net book value 31 December 2004 352 71 57 38 518 15.
Impairment testing of goodwill and intangibles with indefinite useful lives Goodwill acquired through business combinations and indefinite lived intangibles have been allocated to cash-generating units as follows: 2005 2004 Carrying Carrying Carrying amount of Carrying amount of amount of indefinite amount of indefinite Acquisition to which goodwill lived brand Total goodwill lived brand Total Cash-generating unit goodwill relates m m m m m m British Gas Business Enron Direct Electricity Direct 133 133 133 133 British Gas Services Dyno-Rod Dyno-Rod 17 57 74 17 57 74 Texas residential energy CPL WTU CPL WTU 210 210 185 185 Canada residential 328 328 285 285 energy east Direct Energy Canada residential energy west ATCO 46 46 40 40 205 205 177 177 Canada home services Enbridge Services US home services RSG 77 77 67 67 Europe Oxxio Oxxio 84 84 i Onetel Onetel Telco Global 93 93 ii Other Various 70 70 52 52 1,170 57 1,227 1,049 57 1,106 iii Europe SPE SPE Luminus 49 49 51 51 i The Group disposed of the Onetel group on 30 December 2005, as detailed in note 29 ii b. ii Goodwill balances allocated across multiple cash-generating units.
The amount of goodwill allocated to each cashgenerating unit is not significant compared to the aggregate carrying value of goodwill reported within the Group.
iii Includes goodwill relating to interests in joint ventures detailed in note 17.
64 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 15.
Impairment testing of goodwill and intangibles with indefinite useful lives continued Goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if there are indications that amounts might be impaired.
The impairment test involves determining the recoverable amount of the cash-generating units, which corresponds to the fair value less costs to sell or the value in use.
Value in use calculations have been used to determine recoverable amounts for the cash-generating units noted above.
These are determined using cash flow budgets, which are based on business plans for a period of five years.
These business plans have been approved by the executive boards and are valid when the impairment test is performed.
The plans are based on past experience as well as future expected market trends.
Cash flows beyond the five year plan period used in the value in use calculations are increased in line with historic long-term growth rates in the UK, or where applicable the US, Canada and the Netherlands.
Discount rates applied to the cash flow forecasts in determining recoverable amounts are derived from the Groups weighted average cost of capital and for North American cash-generating units range from 8.8% to 11.3%, and for UK and Europe cash-generating units range from 8.6% to 11.4%, on a pre-tax basis.
Growth rates used to extrapolate cash flow projections beyond the period covered by the most recent forecasts range from 0% to 3%.
The key assumptions in the value in use calculations determining recoverable amounts for the specific cash-generating units noted above are: British Gas Business Budgeted gross margin This is based on the average achieved gross margin in the six month period immediately prior to approval of the business plan.
Management believe the assumed margins are reasonably achievable.
Budgeted market share This is based on the average market share achieved immediately prior to the approval of the business plan and the growth forecasts based on sales and marketing activity.
Management believes the assumed improvements are reasonably achievable.
British Gas Services Dyno-Rod Budgeted income This is based on financial performance in the period prior to the approval of the budget including an encouraging response to recently launched sales initiatives.
Income relates to franchise fees budgeted to be received by the Group.
Management believe the assumed improvements are reasonably achievable.
Texas residential energy CPL WTU Budgeted gross margin This is based on the average achieved gross margin in the three year period prior to the approval of the business plan.
Management believes that the assumed margins are reasonably achievable.
Budgeted customer numbers This is based on customer numbers prior to the approval of the business plan uplifted for expected improvements due to new product offerings.
Management believes that the assumed improvements are reasonably achievable.
Budgeted market price This is based on Centricas view of forward gas and forward power prices in Texas immediately prior to the approval of the business plan.
Budgeted consumption This is based on the average consumption per customer prior to the approval of the business plan.
Canada residential energy east Budgeted gross margin For existing customers this is based on contracted margins.
For new and renewal customers this is based on achieved gross margin in the period immediately prior to the approval of the business plan, uplifted in certain markets for expected improvements.
Budgeted market share This is based on the average market share achieved in the period immediately prior to the approval of the business plan, uplifted in certain markets for a forecast increase based on increased brand awarenesss and expansion of sales capacity.
Budgeted market price This is based on Centricas view of forward gas and forward power prices in Canada immediately prior to the approval of the business plan.
Budgeted consumption This is based on the average consumption per customer for the two year period prior to the approval of the business plan.
Canada residential energy west Budgeted gross margin For existing customers this is based on contracted margins.
For new customers this is based on achieved margins in the period immediately prior to the approval of the business plan, uplifted in certain markets for expected improvements arising from increased market penetration and brand awareness.
Budgeted market share For the regulated business this is based on the market share immediately prior to the approval of the business plan, with adjustments made for the expected growth in the market offset by increased competition.
For the other businesses, budgeted market share is based on average market share achieved in the period immediately prior to the approval of the business plan, uplifted for a forecast increase due to expected regional inflation and economic growth.
Canada home services Budgeted gross margin This is based on the achieved gross margin in the period immediately prior to the approval of the business plan, uplifted for expected improvements due to arise from additional product offerings.
Budgeted revenue growth This is based on the average achieved revenue growth for the three year period prior to the approval of the business plan, uplifted in certain markets for expected improvements due to arise from additional product offerings.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 65 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 15.
Impairment testing of goodwill and intangibles with indefinite useful lives continued US home services Budgeted gross margin This is based on achieved gross margin in the period immediately prior to the approval of the business plan.
Budgeted revenue growth This is based on the average achieved revenue growth for the North American home services operations for the three year period prior to the approval of the business plan, uplifted for growth targets.
Management believes that the growth targets are reasonably achievable due to market penetration in certain key US state markets.
Europe Oxxio Budgeted gross margin This is based on the achieved gross margin in the six month period prior to the approval of the budget.
Budgeted revenue growth This is based on managements expectations of future requirements provided by customers, growth in customer numbers and reduction in customer churn.
The growth is not based on historical revenue growth, which resulted from the significant growth in customer numbers following the opening of the electricity and gas markets in the Netherlands.
Europe SPE The assets tested for impairment in respect of SPE comprise goodwill of 49 million in addition to other net assets of 126 million.
In accordance with IFRS 3, Business combinations, the net assets of SPE SA were fair valued upon acquisition.
The remaining excess consideration after allocating the purchase price to all identifiable assets and liabilities is treated as goodwill.
The carrying values recognised upon acquisition have been assessed for impairment against the expected future cash flows of the entity.
Management have concluded that the future cash inflows are sufficient to support the carrying value of recognised goodwill and other net assets.
Centrica is of the opinion that, based on current knowledge, expected changes in the aforementioned key assumptions on which the determination of the recoverable amounts are based would not cause the carrying amounts of the cash-generating units to exceed the recoverable amounts.
Property, plant and equipment Plant, Power Storage, Land and equipment generation exploration and buildings and vehicles v, vi, viii, production i iii, v ix, xi ii, iv, vii, x Total m m m m m Cost 1 January 2005 59 648 1,379 4,030 6,116 Additions 94 100 456 650 Acquisitions note 29 1 1 181 4 187 Transfers from joint ventures 249 249 Revaluation 14 14 Disposals 15 58 315 3 391 Disposal of subsidiary note 29 86 86 Revisions and additions to decommissioning liability 7 34 41 Exchange adjustments 47 17 49 113 31 December 2005 45 646 1,632 4,570 6,893 Aggregate depreciation and impairment 1 January 2005 30 159 112 2,646 2,947 Charge for the year 1 84 90 237 412 Disposals 14 54 60 2 130 Disposal of subsidiary note 29 33 33 Exchange adjustments 12 1 14 27 31 December 2005 17 168 143 2,895 3,223 Net book value 31 December 2005 28 478 1,489 1,675 3,670 66 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 16.
Property, plant and equipment continued Plant, Power Storage, Land and equipment generation exploration and buildings and vehicles v, vi, viii, production i iii, v ix, xi ii, iv, vii, x Total m m m m m Cost 1 January 2004 119 638 615 3,844 5,216 Additions 150479 72 701 Acquisitions 3 6 298 114 421 Disposals 11 48 10 3 72 Disposal of subsidiary 52 99 151 Exchange adjustments 1 3 3 1 31 December 2004 59 648 1,379 4,030 6,116 Aggregate depreciation and impairment 1 January 2004 51 125 67 2,324 2,567 Charge for the year 3 121 51 323 498 Disposals 4 38 6 2 50 Disposal of subsidiary 20 50 70 Exchange adjustments 1 1 2 31 December 2004 30 159 112 2,646 2,947 Net book value 31 December 2004 29 489 1,267 1,384 3,169 i The net book value of land and buildings at 31 December 2005 comprised freehold of 10 million 2004: 10 million, long leasehold of 10 million 2004: 11 million and short leasehold of 8 million 2004: 8 million.
ii The net book value of storage, exploration and production assets included decommissioning costs with a net book value of 85 million 2004: 48 million.
iii The net book value of the fixed assets of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund the Fund within plant, equipment and vehicles was 210 million 2004: 184 million.
Debt issued by a subsidiary of the Fund, without recourse to the Group, is secured on the assets.
iv The net book value of exploration and production fixed assets includes 36 million 2004: 17 million of exploration and evaluation costs.
During the year 36 million 2004: 9 million of exploration and evaluation costs were capitalised and 2 million of exploration and evaluation costs were transferred to producing assets becoming subject to depreciation 2004: 1 million.
15 million of exploration and evaluation costs were impaired during the year because evaluation revealed that the fields were not commercially viable 2004: 15 million.
The impairments occurred within Centrica Energy gas production, a reportable segment of the Group.
v The amounts capitalised in the year in respect of assets in the course of construction within plant, equipment and vehicles was 15 million 2004: 11 million, and within power generation was 16 million 2004: 21 million.
vi The Group acquired the remaining 40% stake in Humber Power Limited Humber on 19 September 2005 note 29.
The Groups 60% stake in Humber had previously been equity accounted as a joint venture.
Power generation includes assets with a fair value of 181 million, which were revalued on the acquisition.
The carrying amount which would have been recognised had the assets been carried at cost was 164 million.
The assets of the joint venture of 249 million have been transferred from interests in joint ventures and revalued to their fair value at 19 September 2005.
In addition to its share in the net assets of the joint venture, the Group previously treated its tolling arrangement with Humber as a finance lease.
This asset, with a net book value of 251 million, was fide-recognised on 19 September 2005. vii Additions include the purchase of the Brae, Buckland and Skene gas fields from Kerr McGee for 268 million.
This transaction was completed on 30 September 2005.
The consideration paid was allocated to the assets and liabilities acquired.
In addition to assets of 332 million, a 38 million provision for decommissioning, 5 million for working capital and a 31 million financial liability relating to the fair value of contracts acquired was recognised.
viii The net book value of power generation assets includes 434 million 2004: 723 million of assets to which title is restricted for the Spalding finance lease asset 2004 comparative includes the Humber finance lease asset.
ix The net book value of power generation assets includes 411 million 2004: nil of assets which are pledged as security for liabilities.
x Included within acquisitions for storage, exploration and production is a 4 million increase related to the finalisation of fair values of prior year acquisitions.
xi Assets held under finance leases are analysed as follows: Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 67 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 16.
Property, plant and equipment continued 2005 2004 m m Assets held under finance leases Cost at 1 January 1,200 732 Additions 413 469 Disposals 311 1 Cost at 31 December 1,302 1,200 Aggregate depreciation at 1 January 396 356 Charge for the year 54 41 Disposals 60 1 Aggregate depreciation at 31 December 390 396 Net book value at 31 December 912 804 The net book value of property, plant and equipment held under finance leases and the depreciation charge for the period is split as follows: Net book Depreciation value charge m m Power generation 910 54 Storage, exploration and production 2 912 54 17.
Interests in joint ventures and associates Investments in joint ventures and associates Shareholder Investments Goodwill loans Total m m m m Share of net assets cost 31 December 2004 131 51 24 206 Adoption of IAS 39 14 14 1 January 2005 as restated 117 51 24 192 i Additions 114 23 137 Increase in shareholder loans 24 24 Conversion of shareholder loans to equity shares 36 36 i, iii Disposals 14 25 39 ii Transfer to subsidiaries 112 112 Dividends received 16 16 Share of profits less losses for the year 37 37 31 December 2005 162 49 12 223 68 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 17.
Interests in joint ventures and associates continued Investments in joint ventures and associates Shareholder Investments Goodwill loans Total m m m m Share of net assets cost 1 January 2004 104 52 156 Additions 1 1 Increase in shareholder loans 24 24 iv Disposals 15 15 Dividends received 28 28 Share of profits less losses for the year 69 69 Exchange adjustments 1 1 31 December 2004 131 51 24 206 The Groups share of joint ventures gross assets and gross liabilities at 31 December 2005 principally comprises its interests in Barrow Offshore Wind Limited renewable power generation and Segebel SA energy supply.
i On 28 September 2005, the Group entered into a 50 50 joint venture Segebel SA with Gaz fide France.
Segebel SA holds a controlling stake of 51% in SPE SA, a Belgian energy company.
At the time of the acquisition SPE SA acquired the Groups 50 50 joint venture energy supply business, Luminus NV for shares.
The acquisition of Luminus NV by SPE SA was treated as a partial 24.5% disposal by the Group resulting in a loss of 1 million.
ii On 19 September 2005, the Group acquired the remaining 40% stake in Humber Power Limited, and accordingly Humber Power Limited has been treated as a subsidiary of the Group from that date note 29.
The Groups 60% share of the assets and liabilities of Humber Power Limited have been transferred to the Group at the date of acquisition.
iii On 11 October 2005 the Group disposed of its 49% shareholding in AccuRead Limited for cash consideration of 11 million, resulting in a pre-tax profit on disposal of 8 million.
iv Disposals in 2004 relate to the disposal of financial services joint ventures, and associates disposed of with the AA.
2005 2004 Barrow Offshore Segebel Wind Limited SA Total Total m m m m Interests in joint ventures Share of current assets 1 108 109 143 Share of non-current assets 54 255 309 401 55 363 418 544 Share of current liabilities 19 50 69 54 Share of non-current liabilities 138 138 311 19 188 207 365 Share of net assets of associates 3 Shareholder loans 12 12 24 Interests in joint ventures and associates 48 175 223 206 Net debt included in share of gross liabilities 12 30 42 240 2005 2004 Barrow Offshore Segebel Wind Limited SA Luminus Humber Other Total Total m m m m m m m Share of results of joint ventures Income 92 216 52 22 382 430 Expenses 91 210 14 20 335 350 1 6 38 2 47 80 Tax 1 8 1 10 13 Share of post-tax results of joint ventures 6 30 36 67 Share of post-tax results of associates 1 1 2 Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 6 30 1 37 69 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 69 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 17.
Interests in joint ventures and associates continued The Groups share of the investment in and results of Barrow Offshore Wind Limited is included within the Centrica Energy segment, within the industrial and wholesaling subsegment.
The Groups share of the investment in and results of Segebel SA are included within the European Energy segment.
Up to the date of acquisition of the Groups remaining stake in Humber Power Limited, the Groups share of the investment in and results of Humber Power Limited were included within the Centrica Energy segment, within the industrial and wholesaling subsegment.
Inventories 2005 2004 m m Gas in storage and transportation 108 97 Other raw materials and consumables 74 52 Finished goods and goods for resale 14 16 196 165 Inventories include 77 million which is carried at fair value less cost to sell, being lower than cost 2004: 46 million.
The Group consumed 184 million of inventories 2004: 176 million during the year.
Trade and other receivables 2005 2004 Current Non-current Current Non-current m m m m Trade receivables, net of provisions for impairment 944 25 703 43 Accrued energy income 1,968 1,712 Other receivables 244 183 1 Prepayments and other accrued income 265 331 24 3,421 25 2,929 68 20.
Cash and cash equivalents 2005 2004 m m Cash at bank, in transit and in hand 21 51 Short-term deposits 1,218 915 Cash and cash equivalents 1,239 966 Short-term deposits included 30 million 2004: 30 million held by the Groups insurance subsidiary undertakings and 25 million 2004: 10 million held by The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund.
These amounts are not readily available to be used for other purposes within the Group.
Short-term deposits include 624 million relating to cash collateralised on letters of credit provided by banks on borrowings relating to South Morecambe gas production.
The borrowings are described in more detail in note 34 c iv.
70 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 21.
Bank overdrafts and loans 2005 2004 Within After Within After one year one year one year one year Amounts falling due: m m m m a Businesses recourse borrowings i Bank loans and overdrafts 71 55 90 33 ii Other bank loans 188 449 iii Sterling bonds 422 125 410 iv Commercial paper 377 220 Loan notes 2 Obligations under finance leases vii including power station tolling arrangements 19 809 50 785 655 1,735 487 1,228 b Businesses non-recourse borrowings v Canadian dollar bonds 250 217 vi Units of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund 282 655 2,267 487 1,445 The Groups management of exposures to financial instruments, and an analysis of effective interest rates is detailed in note 34. i Includes bank overdrafts of 62 million 2004: 85 million which are repayable on demand.
Overdrafts bear interest at floating rates based on bank base rate plus 1% margin.
Bank loans repayable after one year comprise 52 million repayable within two to five years, and 3 million repayable after more than five years.
ii Other bank loans represent borrowings relating to South Morecambe gas field production as described in more detail in note 34 c iv.
iii Sterling bonds were repayable as follows: less than one year nil 2004: 125 million and after five years 422 million 2004: 410 million.
The bonds have a face value of 415 million 2004: 540 million and are stated at amortised cost net of 4 million 2004: 5 million issuance discount, and at fair value where hedged.
iv Commercial paper has a face value of 382 million 2004: 221 million.
v Canadian dollar bonds have a face value of 250 million 2004: 217 million.
This debt is issued by The Consumers Waterheater Trust, a wholly owned subsidiary of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund the Fund, which is consolidated in the Group Financial Statements.
The debt is secured solely on the assets of the Fund and its subsidiaries, without recourse to the Group.
These bonds were issued in two series and have a maturity date of greater than five years bearing interest between 4.700% and 5.245% respectively.
vi Units of the Fund are traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange and are treated as debt in the Group Financial Statements from the date of adoption of IAS 32 on 1 January 2005.
The units were treated as non-equity minority interests of the Group prior to the adoption of IAS 32. vii Future finance lease commitments are as follows: Present value of Present value of Minimum lease minimum lease Minimum lease minimum lease payments payments payments payments 2005 2005 2004 2004 m m m m Amounts payable: Within one year 49 19 146 50 Between one and five years 219 110 486 54 After five years 849 699 1,896 731 1,117 828 2,528 835 Less future finance charges 289 1,693 Present value of lease obligations 828 835 Interest receivable in the Humber Power Limited joint venture in respect of finance lease charges 1,491 In addition to the minimum lease payments, tolling charges are payable, calculated based on effective operating hours of the station.
In the year, 20 million of tolling charges were paid in respect of the Humber and Spalding tolling contracts 2004: 12 million.
The Group acquired the remaining 40% stake in Humber Power Limited on 19 September 2005 note 29.
Prior to the acquisition, the tolling arrangement with the joint venture was treated as a finance lease in the Groups Financial Statements.
On acquisition, this finance lease has been fide-recognised.
The net assets acquired by the Group, and the net assets transferred from the joint venture at acquisition include a finance lease in respect of the generation assets.
The Group has an option to extend the Spalding tolling arrangement.
To exercise this option, notice must be given to the operator, prior to 30 September 2020.
Should this option be exercised, by serving further notice the Group has an option to purchase the station.
At this time, the generator has the option to retain the station and terminate the tolling contract.
Valuation of these options will be determined by an expert panel, appointed by both parties.
The minimum lease payments and the tolling charges based on equivalent operating hours are subject to escalation based on a market of indices.
There are no restrictions under the finance leases in either the current or prior year.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 71 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 22.
Trade and other payables 2005 2004 Current Non-current Current Non-current m m m m Trade payables 1,400 1,429 Other payables 1,134 89 873 70 Accruals Transportation 34 18 Other accruals 874 797 7 908 815 7 Deferred income 99 13 69 17 3,541 102 3,186 94 23.
Deferred corporation tax liabilities and assets The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting period: Accelerated Retirement Accelerated Other timing tax Deferred Deferred benefit tax differences depreciation corporation Decommissioning corporation obligation depreciation including petroleum tax effect petroleum tax effect and other corporation losses carried Mark-torevenue tax thereon revenue tax thereon provisions tax forward market Total m m m m m m m m m 1 January 2004 244 98 41 16 326 394 103 86 Charge to income 15 6 21 9 9 18 48 Charge to equity 27 27 Acquisition disposal of subsidiary 8733 28 148 31 December 2004 229 92 62 25 212 418 93 213 Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 44 44 1 January 2005 as restated 229 92 62 25 212 418 93 44 169 Charge to income 30 20 3 1 3 11 161 139 Charge to equity 37 4 117 84 Acquisition disposal of subsidiary 54 54 Transfers 19 19 Exchange adjustments 11 9 20 31 December 2005 180 72 59 24 249 480 100 243 447 Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
The following is an analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 2005 2004 m m Deferred tax liabilities 743 524 Deferred tax assets 296 311 447 213 At the balance sheet date the Group had certain deductible temporary differences of 576 million 2004: 329 million available for utilisation against future profits.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these temporary differences, due to the unpredictability of future profit streams.
These assets may be carried forward indefinitely.
At the balance sheet date temporary differences of 66 million 2004: 69 million existed in respect of the Groups overseas investments.
The deferred tax liability arising on these temporary differences is estimated to be 8 million 2004: 9 million, which has been provided.
At the balance sheet date there were no material current deferred tax assets or liabilities.
72 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 24.
Provisions Unused and 1 January Acquisitions Charged in reversed in 31 December Current provisions for 2005 and disposals v the year the year Utilised Transfers 2005 liabilities and charges m m m m m m m ii Restructuring costs 87 107 27 64 1 104 iii Renegotiation provisions 3 14 13 4 iv Other 64 24 6 6 5 35 151 21 127 46 69 1 143 31 Adoption of Acquisitions Unused and Revisions 31 Non-current provisions December IAS 39 1 January and Charged in reversed in and December for liabilities and 2004 note 38 2005 disposals v the year the year additions Utilised Transfers 2005 charges m m m m m m m m m m Decommissioning i costs 262 26222141 326 ii Restructuring costs 8 8 27 2 3 30 Renegotiation iii provisions 83 83212 6 91 Sales contract loss provision 62 62 iv Other 22 22173 6 1 35 437 62 375 21 63 14 41 1 3 482 i Provision has been made for the estimated net present cost of decommissioning gas production and storage facilities at the end of their useful lives.
The estimate has been based on proven and probable reserves, price levels and technology at the balance sheet date.
The timing of decommissioning payments are dependent on the lives of the facilities but are anticipated to occur between 2007 and 2042.
The charge to income includes 10 million of notional interest 2004: 9 million.
ii During the year the Group undertook a significant restructuring programme to achieve its stated cost reduction targets.
The restructure involved a reduction in employee numbers of 1,182 and the exit of three properties.
The provision represents costs relating to surplus properties, redundancy and other costs relating to reorganisations.
The element relating to surplus properties was calculated as the lower of the difference between rental costs and sub-let income over the remainder of the leases and the expected cost to surrender those leases.
The charge to income for the year included 100 million 2004: 105 million for exceptional redundancy and other reorganisation costs note 7.
The exceptional charge comprises staff reduction costs at Corporate Centre 23 million, British Gas Residential Energy 43 million, British Gas Services 15 million, British Gas Business 1 million and changes to the property portfolio 18 million.
The majority of these sums are expected to be utilised during 2006.
Included within the provision for 2005 are liabilities arising in the Pension Schemes of 13 million in respect of redundancy costs 2004: 14 million.
iii In previous years, the Group renegotiated certain long-term take-or-pay contracts which would have resulted in commitments to pay for gas that would be excess to requirements and or at prices above likely market rates.
The provision represents the net present cost of estimated payments due to suppliers as consideration for the renegotiations, which are due for settlement in 2008 based on the reserves in a group of third party fields.
The amount arising in the year includes 6 million of notional interest 2004: 10 million.
iv Other provisions included, outstanding litigation and provision for National Insurance payable in respect of Long Term Incentive Scheme liabilities.
The National Insurance provision was based on a share price of 254.75 pence at 31 December 2005 2004: 236.25 pence and is expected to be utilised between 2006 and 2008. v Also included within acquisitions and disposals for other provisions were provisions relating to the costs of disposal of the AA and Onetel.
The majority of these amounts are expected to be utilised within one year.
Included within acquisitions and disposals for decommissioning provisions are adjustments of 2 million relating to the finalisation of fair values of prior year acquisitions.
Called up share capital 2005 2004 m m Authorised share capital of the Company 14 4,455,000,000 ordinary shares of 6 81p each 14 2004: 4,455,000,000 ordinary shares of 6 81p each 275 275 100,000 cumulative redeemable preference shares of 1 each Allotted and fully paid share capital of the Company 14 3,623,982,266 ordinary shares of 6 81p each 14 2004: 3,775,817,747 ordinary shares of 6 81p each 224 233 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 73 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25.
Called up share capital continued The movement in allotted and fully paid share capital of the Company for the year was as follows: 2005 2004 Number Number 1 January 3,775,817,747 4,265,901,206 i Shares repurchased 164,654,278 84,875,000 ii Effect of share consolidation 421,793,113 iii Shares issued under employee share schemes 12,818,797 16,584,654 31 December 3,623,982,266 3,775,817,747 The closing price of a Centrica ordinary share on 31 December 2005 was 254.75 pence 2004: 236.25 pence.
i During the year, the Company purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 165 million ordinary shares at prices ranging from 219.89 pence per share to 254.69 pence per share, with an average of 233.84 pence per share.
The total cost of the purchases including expenses was 388.5 million which has been charged against distributable reserves, of which 10.2 million related to the nominal value and has been recognised in the capital redemption reserve.
14 ii On 25 October 2004, the ordinary share capital was consolidated on the basis of nine new ordinary shares of 6 81 pence 5 each for every ten existing ordinary shares of 5 9 pence.
iii The Centrica Employees Share Trust was established to acquire ordinary shares in the Company, by subscription or purchase, with funds provided by way of interest-free loans from the Company to satisfy rights to shares on the vesting of allocations made under the Companys long-term incentive arrangements.
On 29 September 2005, 1,279,475 were acquired by the Trust to satisfy the release of the October 2000 LTIS allocations.
Movements in the Trust are shown below.
Dividends due on shares held in trust are waived in accordance with the trust deed.
All administration costs are borne by the Group.
2005 2004 Number Number of shares Cost Market value of shares Cost Market value million m m million m m 1 January 6.4 15 15 21.2 45 45 Shares purchased 1.3 3 3 Shares released under Long Term Incentive Scheme 7.7 18 18 13.5 30 30 Share consolidation see above 1.3 Change in market value 31 December 6.4 15 15 % of ordinary share capital 0.2% Nominal value m 0.4 The nominal value of shares purchased by the Trust was 0.01 million 2004: nil.
Ordinary shares were also allotted and issued to satisfy the exercise of share options and the matching element of the Share Incentive Plan as follows: 2005 2004 Number 12,818,797 16,584,654 Nominal value m 0.8 1.0 Consideration m net of issue costs nil 2004: nil.
Share-based payments Centrica operates five employee share schemes the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS, the Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS, Sharesave, the Share Incentive Plan SIP and the Employee Share Purchase Plan ESPP.
These are described in the Directors Report on page 24 and in the Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 31.
There were no other share-based payment transactions during the period.
74 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 26.
Share-based payments continued ESOS Under the ESOS the Board may grant options over shares in Centrica plc to employees of the Group.
Options are granted with a fixed exercise price equal to the market price of the shares at the date of grant.
The contractual life of an option is ten years.
Awards under the ESOS are generally reserved for employees at senior management level and above and 83 employees are currently eligible to participate.
Options granted under the ESOS will become exercisable on the third anniversary of the date of grant, subject to the growth in earnings per share over that period exceeding RPI growth by more than 18 percentage points.
The number of options becoming exercisable is reduced on a sliding scale if EPS growth exceeds RPI growth by between nine and 18 percentage points.
Options granted up to March 2004 also permit retesting of EPS growth annually for a further two years.
Exercise of options is subject to continued employment within the Group.
Options were valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
No performance conditions were included in the fair value calculations.
Early exercise has been taken into account by estimating the expected life of the options.
As allowed by IFRS 2, only options granted since 7 November 2002 which were unvested at 1 January 2005 have been valued.
The fair values and the related assumptions used in the calculations are as follows: 23 September 1 April 1 September 18 March 1 September 24 March 2005 2005 2004 2004 2003 2003 Grant date Share price at grant date 2.46 2.28 2.46 2.28 1.80 1.47 Exercise price 2.51 2.29 2.45 2.24 1.78 1.47 Number of options originally granted 291,235 8,339,818 195,795 8,815,399 635,599 13,319,276 Vesting period 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs i Expected volatility 30% 30% 27% 27% 35% 35% Contractual option life 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs Expected life 5 yrs 5 yrs 5 yrs 5 yrs 5 yrs 5 yrs Risk-free rate 4.80% 4.70% 5.00% 5.01% 4.45% 4.44% Expected dividend yield 4.37% 4.37% 4.82% 4.82% 3.09% 3.09% Expected forfeitures 25% 25% 25% 25% 25% 25% Fair value per option 0.50 0.49 0.47 0.45 0.51 0.41 i The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three years except in the case of options granted in 2003, where historical volatility over the preceding three years was 43% and this was felt to be unrepresentative because it included a significant period of exceptionally high volatility in 1999 2000.
In this case the volatility was reassessed ignoring this period.
The expected life is the average expected period to exercise.
The risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the expected option life.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 75 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 26.
Share-based payments continued LTIS Under the LTIS, allocations of shares in Centrica plc are made to employees of the Group.
Awards under the LTIS are generally reserved for employees at senior management level and above and 365 employees are currently eligible to participate.
The number of shares that are to be released to participants is calculated subject to the Companys total shareholder return TSR during the three years following the grant date, compared to the TSR of other shares in the FTSE 100 Index over the same period.
The number of shares released is reduced on a sliding scale if Centricas TSR is ranked between 50th and 25th.
For allocations granted from October 2001 onwards shares are released to participants immediately following the end of the period in which TSR performance is assessed.
For awards granted prior to that date allocations are subject to a further two years retention.
Release of shares is subject to continued employment within the Group at the date of release.
Allocations were valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
Performance conditions were included in the fair value calculations, through the use of a Monte Carlo simulation model.
As allowed by IFRS 2, only options granted since 7 November 2002, which were unvested at 1 January 2005, have been valued.
The fair values and the related assumptions used in the calculations are as follows: 23 September 1 April 1 September 1 April 1 September 1 April Grant date 2005 2005 2004 2004 2003 2003 Share price at grant date 2.46 2.28 2.46 2.30 1.80 1.47 Exercise price nil nil nil nil nil nil Number of shares originally granted 456,421 8,408,130 310,460 9,765,341 665,69613,573,547 Vesting period 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs i Expected volatility 30% 30% 27% 27% 35% 35% Contractual life 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs Expected life 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs Risk-free rate 4.80% 4.68% 5.00% 5.04% 4.31% 3.88% Expected dividend yield 4.37% 4.37% 4.82% 4.82% 3.09% 3.09% Expected forfeitures 20% 20% 20% 20% 20% 20% Average volatility of FTSE 100 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% Average cross-correlation of FTSE 100 ii ii 30% 30% 30% 30% Fair value per share allocated 1.20 1.03 1.25 1.17 0.99 0.89 i The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three years except in the case of options granted in 2003, where historical volatility over the preceding three years was 43% and this was felt to be unrepresentative because it included a significant period of exceptionally high volatility in 1999 2000.
The expected life is the contract life, which is a fixed-term of three years.
A reconciliation of movements in allocations is shown below: 2005 2004 Number Number Outstanding at start of period 28,002,488 36,680,531 Granted 8,864,551 10,075,801 Exercised 7,715,506 13,517,400 Forfeited performance related 1,223,789 1,795,858 Forfeited non-performance related 1,493,449 3,440,586 Outstanding at the end of the period 26,434,295 28,002,488 Exercisable at the end of the period 157,276 3,845,623 ii From 2005, the cross-correlation of the FTSE 100 has been obtained from a model which calculates the correlation between Centricas historical share price and each of the FTSE 100 over the period from March 2000.
For shares released during the period the weighted average share price was 2.40 2004: 2.42.
Sharesave Under Sharesave the Board may grant options over shares in Centrica plc to UK-based employees of the Group.
Options are granted with a fixed exercise price equal to 80% of the average market price of the shares for the three days prior to invitation which is three to four weeks prior to the grant date.
Employees pay a fixed amount from salary into a savings account each month, and may elect to save over three or five years.
At the end of the savings period, employees have six months in which to exercise their options using the funds saved.
If employees decide not to exercise their options, they may withdraw the funds saved, and the options expire.
The fair values and the related assumptions used in the calculations are as follows: 76 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 26.
Share-based payments continued 6 April 6 April 1 April 1 April 8 April 8 April Grant date 2005 2005 2004 2004 2003 2003 Share price at grant date 2.36 2.36 2.30 2.30 1.59 1.59 Exercise price 1.88 1.88 1.83 1.83 1.07 1.07 Number of options originally granted 4,329,658 5,791,571 3,854,639 7,407,793 37,280,748 34,151,197 Vesting period 5 yrs 3 yrs 5 yrs 3 yrs 5 yrs 3 yrs i Expected volatility 30% 30% 27% 27% 35% 35% Contractual option life 5.5 yrs 3.5 yrs 5.5 yrs 3.5 yrs 5.5 yrs 3.5 yrs Expected life 5 yrs 3 yrs 5 yrs 3 yrs 5 yrs 3 yrs Risk-free rate 4.65% 4.64% 5.13% 5.04% 3.90% 3.90% Expected dividend yield 4.37% 4.37% 4.82% 4.82% 3.09% 3.09% Expected forfeitures 40% 25% 40% 25% 40% 25% Fair value per option 0.68 0.64 0.61 0.58 0.64 0.60 i The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three years except in the case of options granted in 2003, where historical volatility over the preceding three years was 43% and this was felt to be unrepresentative because it included a significant period of exceptionally high volatility in 1999 2000.
SIP Under SIP, employees in the UK may purchase partnership shares through monthly salary deductions.
The Company then grants one matching share for every two purchased, up to a maximum of 20 matching shares per employee per month.
Both partnership shares and matching shares are held in a trust initially.
Partnership shares may be withdrawn at any time, but matching shares are forfeited if the related partnership shares are withdrawn within three years from the original purchase date.
Matching shares vest unconditionally for employees after being held for three years in the trust.
Vesting of matching shares is also subject to continued employment within the Group.
Matching shares are valued at the market price at the grant date.
The average fair value of these awards during the year was 2.36 2004: 2.74.
A reconciliation of matching shares held in trust is as follows: Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 77 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 26.
Share-based payments continued 2005 2004 Number Number Unvested at start of period 1,433,447 897,497 Granted 863,516 843,176 Shares sold and transferred out of the plan 138,554 222,629 Forfeited 91,176 84,597 Unvested at end of period 2,067,233 1,433,447 ESPP Under the ESPP, employees in North America purchase partnership shares through salary deductions.
The Company then grants one matching share for every two shares purchased.
Partnership shares may be withdrawn at any time, but the entitlement to matching shares is forfeited if the related partnership shares are withdrawn within two years from the original purchase date.
Matching shares vest unconditionally for employees after being held for two years.
The average fair value of these awards during the year was 2.37 2004: nil.
A reconciliation of matching shares granted is shown below: 2005 2004 Number Number Unvested at start of period Granted 223,116 Vested 961 Forfeited 13,826 Unvested at end of period 208,329 27.
Reserves Attributable to equity holders of the Company Capital Share Share Merger redemption Other Minority Total capital premium reserve reserve reserves Total interest equity m m m m m m m m 31 December 2004 233 575 467 5 809 2,089 219 2,308 Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 179 179 164 343 1 January 2005 as restated 233 575 467 5 630 1,910 55 1,965 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 13 13 13 Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes 126 126 126 Gains on revaluation of acquired assets 14 14 14 Gains on revaluation of available 2 2 2 for sale investments Cash flow hedges Net fair value gains 408 408 408 Transfers to income statement 74 74 74 Tax on items taken directly to equity 84 84 84 233 575 467 5 783 2,063 55 2,118 Profit for the year 1,012 1,012 1 1,013 Employee share option schemes Purchase of treasury shares 3 3 3 Share issue 1 20 21 21 Value of services provided 21 21 21 Repurchase of shares 10 10 388 388 388 Dividends 340 340 340 31 December 2005 224 595 467 15 1,085 2,386 56 2,442 78 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 27.
Reserves continued Attributable to equity holders of the Company Capital Share Share Merger redemption Other Minority Total capital premium reserve reserve reserves Total interest equity m m m m m m m m 1 January 2004 237 549 467 657 1,910 217 2,127 Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension schemes 90 90 90 Tax on items taken directly to equity 27 27 27 237 549 467 720 1,973 217 2,190 Profit for the year 1,591 1,591 20 1,611 Employee share option schemes: Share issue 1 26 27 27 Value of services provided 17 17 17 Repurchase of shares 5 5 205 205 205 Dividends 1,314 1,314 1,314 Distributions to non-equity minority interests 18 18 31 December 2004 233 575 467 5 809 2,089 219 2,308 Other reserves can be further analysed as follows: Foreign currency Cash flow Total Revaluation translation hedging Profit and loss other reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves m m m m m 31 December 2004 809 809 Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 68 247 179 1 January 2005 as restated 68 562 630 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 3 16 13 Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes 126 126 Gains on revaluation of acquired assets 14 14 Gain on revaluation of available for sale investments 2 2 Cash flow hedges: Net fair value gains 408 408 Transfers to income statement 74 74 Tax on items taken directly to equity 4 117 37 84 10 3 301 475 783 Profit for the year 1,012 1,012 Employee share option schemes: Purchase of treasury shares 3 3 Value of services provided 21 21 Repurchase of shares 388 388 Dividends 340 340 31 December 2005 10 3 301 777 1,085 Foreign currency Cash flow Total Revaluation translation hedging Profit and loss other reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves m m m m m 1 January 2004 657 657 Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes 90 90 Tax on items taken directly to equity 27 27 720 720 Profit for the year 1,591 1,591 Employee share option schemes: Value of services provided 17 17 Repurchase of shares 205 205 Dividends 1,314 1,314 31 December 2004 809 809 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 79 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 27.
Reserves continued The revaluation of the Groups existing interest in Humber Power Limited to fair value, following the acquisition by the Group of the remaining 40% stake, has been recorded as a revaluation reserve adjustment.
Aggregate tax taken directly to the profit and loss reserve amounted to 84 million 2004: 27 million, of which 37 million relates to deferred tax arising on actuarial gains and losses on the Groups defined benefit schemes 2004: 27 million and 121 million relates to deferred tax arising on gains and losses on available for sale investments and cash flow hedges 2004: nil.
Cumulative gains of 2 million 2004: nil on available for sale investments were included within the profit and loss reserve.
Cumulate actuarial losses arising on defined benefit pension schemes amounted to 36 million 2004: 90 million profit.
Exchange losses of 146 million 2004: 13 million loss on net investment in overseas undertakings have been offset in full in reserves against exchange gains of 133 million 2004: 13 million gain on foreign currency borrowings.
Cumulative exchange losses of 1 million were charged to the income statement on the disposal of the Groups share in Luminus NV note 17.
The repurchase of shares includes transaction costs charged directly to equity of 1 million 2004: 2 million.
The profit and loss reserve can be further analysed as follows: Share options Profit and loss Treasury shares reserve Other reserve m m m m 31 December 2004 15 24 800 809 Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 247 247 1 January 2005 as restated 15 24 553 562 Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes 126 126 Gains on revaluation of available for sale investments 2 2 Tax on items taken directly to equity 37 37 15 24 466 475 Profit for the year 1,012 1,012 Employee share option schemes: Purchase of treasury shares 3 3 Exercise of awards 18 3 15 Value of services provided 21 21 Repurchase of shares 388 388 Dividends 340 340 31 December 2005 42 735 777 Share options Profit and loss Treasury shares reserve Other reserve m m m m 1 January 2004 45 11 691 657 Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes 90 90 Tax on items taken directly to equity 27 27 45 11 754 720 Profit for the year 1,591 1,591 Employee share option schemes: Exercise of awards 30 4 26 Value of services provided 17 17 Repurchase of shares 205 205 Dividends 1,314 1,314 31 December 2004 15 24 800 809 80 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 28.
Minority interests Equity Non-equity Total m m m 31 December 2004 55 164 219 Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 164 164 1 January 2005 55 55 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 1 1 31 December 2005 56 56 Equity minority interests at 31 December 2005 related to a 30% economic interest held by Lloyds TSB Bank plc in the dormant legal entity formerly Goldfish Holdings Limited pending winding up of the company and its subsidiary, GF One Limited formerly Goldfish Bank Limited.
Non-equity minority interests at 31 December 2004 related to the 80.1% of units in The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
These units have been re-classified as non-recourse debt at 1 January 2005, on adoption of IAS 32 by the Group.
Acquisitions and disposals i Acquisitions During the year the Group acquired 100% of Oxxio BV and 40% of Humber Power Limited.
The Group also made a number of smaller acquisitions which are aggregated in section c. The acquisition method of accounting was adopted in all cases.
The analysis of assets and liabilities acquired, and the fair value of these acquisitions were as shown below.
All intangible fixed assets were recognised at their respective fair values.
The residual excess over the net assets acquired on each acquisition is recognised as goodwill in the financial statements.
The fair values stated are provisional because the Directors have not yet reached a final determination on all aspects of the fair value exercise.
IFRS carrying values pre-acquisition Fair value a Oxxio BV m m Other intangible assets 30 25 Property, plant and equipment 1 1 Trade and other receivables current 22 20 Cash and cash equivalents 15 15 Trade and other payables current 40 42 Trade and other payables non-current 7 Deferred tax liability 2 6 Net assets acquired 19 13 Goodwill arising 82 Cash consideration 95 The Group acquired 100% of the voting share capital of Oxxio BV, a Dutch energy supplier, on 1st July 2005.
Oxxio contributed a loss after tax of 9 million to the Group for the period from 1 July 2005 to 31 December 2005.
The book value of assets and liabilities has been adjusted to align with the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired.
The principal adjustments to intangible fixed assets have been to recognise contractual customer relationships and commodity contracts at their estimated fair value and reverse goodwill that had previously been acquired by Oxxio.
Adjustments have also been made to eliminate a non-current borrowing settled as part of the purchase consideration and to recognise current payables at their fair value.
A deferred tax liability has been recognised in relation to the fair value adjustments.
Goodwill represents the ongoing commercial activities of the business acquired and the corresponding entry of the recognition of deferred tax on fair value adjustments.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 81 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29.
Acquisitions and disposals continued IFRS carrying values Fair pre-acquisition value b Humber Power Limited m m Property, plant and equipment 164 181 Inventories 22 Trade and other receivables current 10 10 Cash and cash equivalents 42 42 Trade and other payables current 14 12 Trade and other payables non-current 170 147 Deferred tax liabilities 12 19 Derivative financial instruments 24 Net assets acquired 22 33 Goodwill arising 14 Cash consideration 47 The Group acquired 40% of the voting share capital of Humber Power Limited, which owns the gas-fired South Humber Bank power station, on 19 September 2005.
The Group now holds 100% of the voting share capital of Humber Power Limited.
The acquired business contributed profit after tax of 5 million to the Group for the period from 19 September 2005 to 31 December 2005.
Adjustments have been made to recognise property, plant and equipment at fair value and to recognise trade and other payables in respect of an external finance lease with Lloyds TSB Bank plc, and liabilities in respect of the recognition of four money-market swaps, at their respective fair values.
Goodwill has principally arisen in relation to the recognition of deferred tax on fair value adjustments.
IFRS carrying values pre-acquisition Fair value c Other business combinations m m Other intangible assets 11 Property, plant and equipment 1 1 Trade and other receivables current 2 2 Trade and other payables current 1 1 Trade and other payables non-current 1 1 Deferred tax liability 2 Provisions 5 Net assets acquired 15 Goodwill arising 5 Cash consideration 10 The Group acquired the plumbing-related assets of Belyea Brothers on 3 March 2005 consideration 0.2 million, goodwill 0.2 million : 100% of the voting share capital of Awardmodel Limited and its subsidiary RedNet Limited, an internet service provider, on 21 April 2005 consideration 3.8 million, goodwill 4.1 million : the assets of Wendland Air Conditioning and Heating LLC, which sold and installed air conditioning and heating, on 1 June 2005 consideration 0.4 million, goodwill 0.3 million : a 10% joint working interest in the Canadian Craigmyle gas field on 25 July 2005 consideration 0.8 million, goodwill nil : 100% of the voting share capital of James Wall Plumbing Limited, a heating, ventilation, air conditioning and plumbing company, on 1 October 2005 consideration 0.6 million, goodwill 0.1 million : and 12,826 gas sales and purchase contracts and the related customer relationships from Total Gas and Power Limited on 1 December 2005 consideration 4.2 million, goodwill nil.
The acquired businesses contributed a loss after tax of 1 million to the Group from their respective dates of acquisition up to 31 December 2005.
The pro-forma consolidated results of the Group, as if the 2005 acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the period include revenues of 13,564 million and profit after tax of 999 million.
In preparing the pro-forma results, revenue and costs have been included as if the businesses were acquired on 1 January 2005 and inter company transactions had been eliminated.
This information is not necessarily indicative of the results of the combined Group that would have occurred had the purchases actually been made at the beginning of the period presented, or future results of the combined Group.
During 2005 the Group paid 98 million of deferred and contingent consideration in relation to prior year acquisitions.
Cash of 63 million has been transferred to the Group on the acquisition by the Group of the remaining 40% stake in Humber Power Limited.
The cash relates to the Groups 60% stake in Humber Power Limited which was previously reported within interests in joint ventures.
82 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29.
Acquisitions and disposals continued ii Disposals a British Gas Connections Limited The Group disposed of its shareholding in British Gas Connections Limited on 20 May 2005 for cash consideration of 90 million, resulting in a pre-tax operating profit on disposal of 47 million.
The analysis of assets and liabilities sold and consideration received is given below: m Property, plant and equipment 33 Deferred tax liability 3 Net assets 30 Pre-tax profit on disposal 47 i Deferred consideration 13 Cash consideration 90 i 13 million of the total cash consideration relates to the future order book of 35,000 connections which will be completed on behalf of the purchaser by British Gas siteworks business, New Housing Connections.
The assets will be constructed over the next five years.
13 million consideration will be deferred and recognised as the assets are constructed and delivered to the purchaser.
b Onetel On 30 December 2005 the Group disposed of its shareholding in Centrica Telecommunications Limited, Onetel Limited, Telco Holdings Limited and Awardmodel Limited and their subsidiaries Onetel, for cash consideration of 130 million, resulting in a discontinued loss on disposal of 5 million.
No tax charge has arisen in relation to the disposal.
An analysis of the assets and liabilities sold is as follows: m Other intangible assets 2 Property, plant and equipment 20 Deferred tax assets 1 Trade and other receivables 49 Cash and cash equivalents 26 Trade and other payables 199 Provisions 1 Net liabilities 102 Related goodwill 97 Net liabilities disposed 5 Sale proceeds Cash consideration received 130 i Deferred settlements 39 ii Write-off of inter company balances 150 iii Separation costs 13 Professional fees 3 iv Provision for future connection costs 13 Net liabilities disposed 5 Discontinued loss on disposal 5 i Deferred settlements relate to the finalisation of the amounts paid in relation to closing working capital.
ii Amounts due to the Group from Onetel have been written off on disposal.
iii Included within separation costs of 13 million are 10 million of lease exit costs, 2 million retention bonuses and 1 million other.
iv Centrica has agreed to provide 225,000 customer connections each year until 2008.
13 million represents the marginal cost of the connections.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 83 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 30.
Notes to the Group Cash Flow Statement 2005 2004 a Reconciliation of Group operating profit to net cash flow from operating activities m m Continuing operations Group operating profit before share of joint ventures and associates 1,920 1,207 Add back: Amortisation of intangible assets 76 37 Depreciation and impairment 406 490 Employee share scheme costs 17 13 Profit on sale of businesses 53 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment, and other intangible assets 17 13 Movement in provisions 42 76 Re-measurement of energy contracts 455 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 1,936 1,658 Increase decrease in inventories 22 10 Increase in receivables 269 356 Increase in payables 299 344 Cash generated by operations 1,944 1,656 Income taxes paid 320 217 Petroleum revenue tax paid 448 263 Net interest received 3 6 Payments relating to exceptional charges 48 25 Net cash flow from operating activities: continuing operations 1,131 1,157 2005 2004 m m Discontinued operations Operating profit before share of joint ventures and associates 12 71 Add back: Amortisation of intangible assets 1 3 Depreciation and impairment 6 8 Employee share scheme costs 1 5 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment, and other intangible assets 1 Movement in provisions 4 2 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 16 84 Decrease in inventories 1 Increase decrease in receivables 3 6 Increase in payables 43 Cash generated by operations 13 134 Income taxes paid 22 Net interest received Payments relating to exceptional charges Net cash flow from operating activities: discontinued operations 13 112 Total cash inflow from operating activities 1,144 1,269 2005 2004 b Net cash flow from investing activities m m Continuing operations 520 497 Discontinued operations 9 Net cash flow from investing activities 529 497 2005 2004 c Net cash flow from financing activities m m Continuing operations 356 1,515 Discontinued operations 21 73 Net cash flow from financing activities 335 1,588 There were no additions to property, plant and equipment during the year financed by new finance leases.
Cash and cash equivalents which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the Balance Sheet comprise cash at bank and other short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less.
84 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 31.
Pensions Substantially all of the Groups UK employees at 31 December 2005 were members of one of the three main schemes: the Centrica Pension Scheme formerly the Centrica Staff Pension Scheme, the Centrica Engineers Pension Scheme and the Centrica Management Pension Scheme the approved pension schemes.
These schemes are defined benefit schemes and are subject to independent valuations at least every three years, on the basis of which the qualified actuary certifies the rate of employers contributions which, together with the specified contributions payable by the employees and proceeds from the schemes assets, are expected to be sufficient to fund the benefits payable under the schemes.
The Centrica Unapproved Pension Scheme is an unfunded arrangement which provides benefits to certain employees whose benefits under the main schemes would otherwise be limited by the earnings cap.
The Group also has a commitment to provide certain pension and post retirement benefits to employees of Direct Energy Marketing Limited Canada.
The latest full actuarial valuations were carried out at the following dates: the approved pension schemes at 31 March 2004, the Unapproved Pension Scheme at 6 April 2005 and the Direct Energy Marketing Limited pension plan at 14 June 2005.
These have been updated to 31 December 2005 for the purposes of meeting the requirements of IAS 19.
Investments have been valued, for this purpose, at market value.
31 December 31 December 2005 2004 Major assumptions used for the actuarial valuation % % Rate of increase in employee earnings 4.35 4.30 Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions 2.85 2.80 Discount rate 4.85 5.40 Inflation assumption 2.85 2.80 The assumptions relating to longevity underlying the pension liabilities at the balance sheet date are based on standard actuarial mortality tables, and include an allowance for future improvements in longevity.
The assumptions are equivalent to future longevity for members in normal health at age 65 approximately are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 Years Years Currently aged 65 range 18 23 18 23 Currently aged 45 range 20 25 20 25 The market value of the assets in the schemes, the present value of the liabilities in the schemes and the expected rate of return at the balance sheet date were: Expected rate Expected rate of return of return per annum Valuation per annum Valuation 2005 2005 2004 2004 31 December % m % m Equities 7.9 2,023 8.1 1,590 Bonds 4.5 391 5.0 336 Property 6.3 83 6.9 62 Cash and other assets 3.7 73 3.6 53 Total fair value of plan assets 7.3 2,570 7.4 2,041 Present value of defined benefit obligation 3,390 2,760 i Net liability recognised in the Balance Sheet 820 719 Associated deferred tax asset recognised in the Balance Sheet 249 212 Net pension liability 571 507 i 13 million of the liability relates to restructuring costs arising in the year and is included within the restructuring provision on the Balance Sheet 2004: 14 million.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 85 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 31.
Pensions continued The overall expected rate of return on assets is a weighted average based on the actual plan assets held and the respective expected returns on separate asset classes.
The return on separate asset classes were derived as follows: the expected rate of return on equities is based on the expected median return over a ten year period, as calculated by the independent company actuary.
The median return over a longer period than ten years was not expected to be materially dissimilar.
The expected rate of return on bonds was measured directly from actual market yields for UK gilts and corporate bond stocks.
The rate above takes into account the actual mixture of UK gilts, UK corporate bonds and overseas bonds held at the balance sheet date.
The expected rate of return on property takes into account both capital growth and allowance for expenses, rental growth and depreciation.
The expected rate of return on cash is comparable to current bank interest rates.
Included within schemes liabilities above are 32 million 2004: 26 million relating to unfunded pension arrangements.
The amounts recognised in the Income Statement and in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense are set out below: 2005 2004 Analysis of the amount charged to operating profit m m Current service cost 122 148 Past service cost 4 Loss on curtailment 14 16 Net charge to operating profit 136 168 2005 2004 Analysis of the amount credited charged to interest m m Expected return on pension scheme assets 153 173 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 150 178 Net credit charge to interest 3 5 Analysis of the actuarial gain loss recognised in the Statement 2005 2004 of Recognised Income and Expense m m Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 307 64 Experience gains and losses arising on the scheme liabilities 21 134 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the schemes liabilities 454 108 Actuarial loss gain to be recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense before adjustment for tax 126 90 2005 2004 2003 History of deficit m m m Plan assets 2,570 2,041 2,353 Defined benefit obligation 3,390 2,760 3,491 Deficit 820 719 1,138 History of experience gains and losses 2005 2004 2003 Difference between the expected and actual return on scheme assets: Amount m 307 64 202 Percentage of scheme assets 11.9% 3.1% 8.6% Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities: Amount m 21 134 64 Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 0.6% 4.9% 1.8% Total actuarial loss gain recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense: Amount m 126 90 281 Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 3.7% 3.3% 8.0% 86 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 31.
Pensions continued 2005 2004 Movement in the defined benefit obligation during the year m m 1 January 2,760 3,491 Movements in the year: Current service cost 119 146 Past service cost 4 Loss on curtailment 14 17 Interest on scheme liabilities 150 178 Plan participants contributions 24 31 Benefits paid 48 52 Disposal of AA pension and post-retirement benefit schemes 1,031 Acquisition of liability in year 2 Actuarial loss gain 433 26 Settlements curtailments paid from fund 62 31 December 3,390 2,760 2005 2004 Movement in plan assets during the year m m 1 January 2,041 2,353 Movements in the year: Expected return on scheme assets 153 173 Actuarial gain 307 64 Employer contributions 155 238 Plan participants contributions 24 31 Disposal of AA pension and post-retirement benefit schemes 766 Benefits paid 48 52 Settlements curtailments paid from fund 62 31 December 2,570 2,041 Agreed future contribution rates % of pensionable salary 2005 for the three main defined benefit schemes % Centrica Pension Scheme Final salary section 19.7 Centrica Pension Scheme CRIS section 8.0 Centrica Engineers Pension Scheme 19.0 Centrica Management Pension Scheme 26.2 The Centrica Pension Scheme final salary section and the Centrica Management Pension Scheme were closed to new members from 1 April 2003.
Under the projected unit method, used to value pension liabilities under IAS 19 for closed plans, the current service cost is expected to increase over time as members approach retirement.
Commitments and contingencies a Commitments At 31 December 2005, the Group had placed contracts for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to 64 million 2004: 32 million, and for the acquisition of intangible assets of 137 million 2004: 31 million.
Commitments in relation to the acquisition of intangible assets include application software 25 million 2004: 31 million and ROCS 103 million 2004: nil.
At 31 December 2005 the Group had commitments of 44 million in respect of the acquisition of Braes of Doune Wind Farm.
At 31 December 2005 the Group had commitments in relation to software and maintenance contracts of 13 million 2004: 29 million.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 87 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 32.
Commitments and contigencies continued b Decommissioning costs The Group has provided certain guarantees and indemnities to BG Group plc in respect of the decommissioning costs of the Morecambe gas fields.
The Company and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Hydrocarbon Resources Limited, have agreed to provide security, in respect of such guarantees and indemnities, to BG International Limited, which, as original licence holder for the Morecambe gas fields, will have exposure to decommissioning costs relating to the Morecambe gas fields should liabilities not be fully discharged by the Group.
The security is to be provided when the estimated future net revenue stream from the Morecambe gas fields falls below 150% of the estimated cost of such decommissioning.
The nature of the security may take a number of different forms and will remain in force unless and until the costs of such decommissioning have been irrevocably discharged and the relevant Department of Trade and Industry decommissioning notice in respect of the Morecambe gas fields has been revoked.
c Operating lease commitments At 31 December the total of future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases for each of the following periods were: Other 2005 2004 m m Within one year 73 67 Between one and five years 160 169 After five years 192 184 425 420 Other 2005 2004 m m The total of future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable operating sub-leases at 31 December 16 20 Lease and sub-lease payments recognised as an expense in the year were as follows: Minimum lease payments 80 99 Contingent rents 1 There are no restrictions imposed by the Groups operating leases, in either the current or prior year.
d Litigation The Group has a number of outstanding disputes arising out of its normal activities, for which provisions have been made, where appropriate, in accordance with IAS 37. e Guarantees and indemnities The Company has 1,000 million of bilateral credit facilities 2004: 915 million.
Hydrocarbon Resources Limited and British Gas Trading Limited have guaranteed, jointly and severally, to pay on demand any sum which the Company does not pay in accordance with the facility agreements.
In relation to the sale and leaseback of the Morecambe gas field plant, property and equipment recorded in these Financial Statements, the Group has given guarantees amounting to 1 million 2004: 22 million.
The Group has given guarantees in connection with the finance lease obligations referred to in note 16.
A fixed collateral payment amounting to 245 million 2004: 225 million is required in the event of Centrica plc failing to retain at least one credit rating which is not on credit watch above the BBB Baa1 level, and further collateral of 245 million 2004: 75 million is required if the credit rating falls further.
Group companies have given guarantees and indemnities, subject to certain limitations, to various counterparties in relation to wholesale energy trading and procurement activities, and to third parties in respect of gas production and energy transportation liabilities.
In connection with their energy trading, transportation and upstream activities, certain Group companies have entered into contracts under which they may be required to prepay or provide credit support or other collateral in the event of a significant deterioration in credit worthiness.
The extent of credit support is contingent upon the balance owing to the third party at the point of deterioration.
Following the closure of the British Gas Energy Centres Limited Energy Centres operations in July 1999, guarantees have been signed on certain former Energy Centres properties as a result of reassignment of leases.
f Other The Groups use of financial instruments is explained in the Group Financial Review on page 20 and in note 34.
88 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 32.
Commitments and contingencies continued g Commodity purchase contracts The Group procures gas and electricity through a mixture of production from owned gas fields and power stations and procurement contracts.
Procurement contracts include short-term forward market purchases of gas and electricity at fixed and floating prices.
They also include gas contracts indexed to market prices and long-term gas contracts with non-gas indexation.
Further information about the Groups procurement strategy is contained in note 34 i.
Commodity purchase commitments are estimated, on an undiscounted basis, as follows: 2005 2004 m m Within one year 8,500 2,700 Between one and five years 16,500 11,800 After five years 10,600 8,400 35,600 22,900 The total volume of gas to be taken under certain long-term structured contracts depends on a number of factors, including the actual reserves of gas that are eventually determined to be extractable on an economic basis.
The resulting monetary commitment is based on the minimum quantities of gas that the Group is contracted to pay at estimated future prices.
The estimated commitment to make payments under gas procurement contracts differs in scope and in basis from the principal value of energy derivatives disclosed in note 34 ii.
Only certain procurement contracts and certain sales contracts are within the scope of IAS 39 and included in note 34.
In addition, the volumes used in calculating principal values are estimated using valuation techniques.
Contractual commitments which are subject to fulfilment of conditions precedent are excluded.
At 31 December 2004, the commitment was estimated using the Groups average cost of gas from its contracts with third parties for the year ended 31 December 2004.
The Group purchases electricity from a range of generating sources, including renewables, in respect of which a number of long-term purchase arrangements are in place.
The estimated commitment at 31 December 2005 included above in respect of renewables contracts amounted to 37 million within one year, 235 million between one and five years, and 1,254 million after five years, on an undiscounted basis.
Related party transactions During the year, the Group entered into the following transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group: Purchase Purchase Sale of goods Other Sale of goods Other of goods and services transactions of goods and services transactions 2005 2005 2005 2004 2004 2004 m m m m m m Humber Power Limited to 19 September 2005 358 4 80 AccuRead Limited to 11 October 2005 28 38 Lloyds TSB Bank plc 2 1 386 2 4 118 1 Balances outstanding with related parties at 31 December were as follows: Provision for Provision for bad bad or doubtful or doubtful debt debt relating to relating to Amounts owed Amounts owed amounts owed Amounts owed amounts owed from related to related from related from related Amounts owed to from related parties parties parties parties related parties parties 2005 2005 2005 2004 2004 2004 m m m m m m Humber Power Limited to 19 September 2005 13 AccuRead Limited to 11 October 2005 Barrow Offshore Wind Limited 12 1 35 6 Lloyds TSB Bank plc 46 44 58 1 79 19 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 89 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 33.
Related party transactions continued Humber Power Limited was a joint venture of the Group until the Groups acquisition of the remaining 40% of its share capital on 19 September 2005.
Humber Power Limited has been consolidated as a subsidiary of the Group from this date.
AccuRead Limited was an associated undertaking of the Group until the Group disposed of its interest on 11 October 2005.
Barrow Offshore Wind Limited is a joint venture of the Group.
Lloyds TSB Bank plc is a related party of the Group because of its 20% interest in GFOne Limited, a subsidiary of the Group.
Transactions with Humber Power Limited related to the Groups tolling arrangement for the purchase of power from the entity.
Transactions with AccuRead Limited related to a contract for the reading of meters on behalf of the Group, entered into at arms length.
Transactions with Barrow Offshore Wind Limited relate to loan facilities.
Transactions with Lloyds TSB bank plc relate to a loan facility.
2005 2004 Remuneration of key management personnel m m Short-term benefits 7 7 Post-employment benefits 3 4 Share-based payments 3 2 13 13 Key management personnel comprise members of the Board and Executive Committee, a total of 15 individuals at 31 December 2005 2004: 14.
A relative of a Board member employed by the Group received emoluments of 0.1 million 2004: 0.1 million.
Key management personnel and their families purchase gas and electricity from the Group for domestic purposes on an arms length basis.
Financial instruments The Group adopted IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement with effect from 1 January 2005.
In accordance with the transition provisions of IFRS 1, First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, no comparative information has been presented for the year ended 31 December 2004.
Accordingly the disclosures contained in the Groups Annual Report and Accounts for 2004, prepared in accordance with FRS 13, Derivatives and other financial instruments: disclosures, have been reproduced below.
Exposure to commodity price risk, counterparty credit risk, interest rate risk, currency risk and liquidity risk arises in the normal course of the Groups business.
Derivative financial instruments are entered into to reduce exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
Derivative financial instruments are also entered into for trading purposes.
The Group also enters into primary financial instruments to finance the Groups operations in the normal course of business.
A financial instrument is defined in IAS 32 as any contract which gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of another entity.
Further detail on the Groups risk management policies is included within the Group Financial Review on page 20. i Risks a Commodity price risk The most significant financial risk facing the Group relates to commodity prices, in particular for gas and electricity.
Commodity price risk arises as a result of contracted or forecast retail sales of gas and electricity not being fully matched by equity production or procurement contracts with equivalent volumes, time periods and pricing.
The risk is primarily that market prices for commodities will move adversely between the time that sales prices are fixed or tariffs are set and the time at which the purchase cost is fixed, thereby potentially reducing expected margins.
The Group monitors exposure to commodity price risk using volumetric limits set as a combination of long-standing target ranges and specific shorter-term targets for both gas and electricity.
The volumetric limits are supported by the use of Value at Risk VaR and Profit at Risk PaR methodologies.
In order to reduce commodity price risk, the Group procures gas and electricity through a mixture of production from owned gas fields and power stations, and procurement and certain sales contracts.
This reduces the volume of gas and electricity which remains to be procured at market prices.
Procurement contracts include short-term forward market purchases and sales of gas and electricity at fixed prices.
They also include long-term gas contracts whose prices are determined based on historic or forward quoted gas prices up to 12 months in advance of the period the gas is delivered thus stabilising procurement and sales prices and eliminating exposure once the price has been determined.
Finally, they include long-term gas contracts with non-gas indexation, which stabilise prices but also result in some exposure to other commodities and indices.
These include oil and oil products, coal and general indices such as the Producers Price Index PPI.
The contract prices are determined based on forward quoted prices for the commodities and indices up to 12 months in advance of the period in which the gas is delivered.
The volume variability in the contract portfolio is actively managed in order to optimise the use of the contracts.
Certain of these procurement contracts and certain sales contracts constitute derivative financial instruments which are within the scope of IAS 39 whose fair value is recorded in the financial statements.
The fair values of these contracts are subject to change resulting from changes in commodity prices, except for contracts which are indexed to the market price of the commodity which is the subject of the contract, and for which the price is not fixed in advance of delivery.
Commodity price risk also arises from proprietary trading activity.
These exposures are subject to volumetric limits on open exposures and to VaR limits.
90 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 34.
Financial instruments continued To reduce the commodity price risk associated with gas and power purchase requirements the Group has entered into physical and financial gas and power purchase contracts, certain of which it has accounted for as cash flow hedges.
The hedged item is the forecast future purchase requirement to meet customer demand.
The hedging instruments are fixed price forward gas and power purchase contracts.
The net fair value of commodity cash flow hedging instruments was a 481 million asset at 31 December 2005.
There were no forecasted transactions for which hedge accounting had previously been applied that are no longer expected to occur.
Commodity contracts are subject to legal and contract risk.
The fair values of field-specific depletion contracts are by their nature also subject to reserves risk and other operational risks associated with gas production.
b Credit risk Counterparty credit risk is the risk that the financial benefits of contracts with a specific counterparty will be lost if a counterparty defaults on their obligations under the contract.
This includes any cash amounts owed to the Group by those counterparties, less any amounts owed to the counterparty by the Group where a legal right of set-off exists and also includes the fair values of contracts with individual counterparties which are recorded in the Financial Statements.
Energy wholesale and trading Counterparty credit exposures are monitored by individual counterparty and by category of credit rating, and are subject to approved limits.
The majority of significant exposures are with A-rated counterparties or better.
A credit risk adjustment is made to the fair values of financial instruments in accordance with the credit rating of the counterparty.
No credit risk adjustment is made to financial instruments under a joint operating agreement where operators are contractually required to fulfill the obligations of any defaulting party.
Downstream businesses Exposure to credit risk arises in the normal course of operations as a result of the potential for a customer defaulting on their payable balance.
In the case of business customers credit risk is managed by checking a companys creditworthiness and financial strength both before commencing to trade and during the business relationship.
For residential customers, credit worthiness is ascertained normally before commencing to trade by reviewing an appropriate mix of internal and external information.
An ageing of receivables is monitored and used to manage the exposure to credit risk.
Collateral Centrica employs a variety of other methods to mitigate credit risk including margining, various forms of bank and Parent Company Guarantees and Letters of Credit.
In all cases the aim of setting up a credit risk mitigation instrument is to upgrade the credit risk to a better equivalent rating, than the stand-alone rating of the counterparty.
At 31 December 2005 Centrica had pledged 41 million of cash collateral and had received 537 million of cash collateral principally under margin calls to cover exposure to mark-to-market positions on derivative contracts.
Most collateral paid or received is interest bearing and free of any restrictions over its use.
Centrica had also provided 646 million of cash collateral to banks to reduce the cost of providing Letters of Credit and utilise Centricas cash deposits in a more efficient way.
Amounts include 624 million relating to cash collateralised on Letters of Credit provided by banks on borrowings relating to South Morecambe gas production as described in more detail in note 34 c iv.
If a cash collateralised Letter of Credit is called by the beneficiary and Centrica defaults under the counter indemnity, then the bank is entitled to utilise the cash deposit to meet the ensuing liability.
Centrica also uses Master Netting Agreements or netting provisions to reduce credit risk and net settles payments with counterparties where master netting agreements are held.
Credit risk exposures The maximum exposure to credit risk without taking account of collateral was represented by the balance sheet carrying amount for all financial instruments within the scope of IAS 32 except for 28 million in relation to financial guarantees.
Of the total credit risk exposure on energy derivatives of 2,361 million, 1,910 million 81% related to the UK and Europe, of which 291 million related to a single European energy counterparty with a credit rating of A for which cash collateral of 221 milion was held at 31 December 2005, and 451 million 19% related to North America.
Of the total credit risk exposure on trade and other receivables within the scope of IAS 32 and IAS 39 of 3,150 million, 2,357 million 75% related to the UK and Europe and 793 million 25% related to North America.
There were no other significant concentrations of credit risk at 31 December 2005. c Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the Group suffers financial loss due to changes in the value of an asset or liability or in the value of future cash flows due to movements in interest rates.
Any financial asset or liability on which interest is paid or received will be subject to interest rate risk.
The Groups policy is to actively manage the interest rate risk on long-term recourse borrowings while ensuring that the exposure to fixed interest rates remains within a 30% 70% range.
Interest rate swaps and cross-currency interest rate swaps are used to hedge interest rate fair value exposures by swapping fixed-rate interest flows into floating rate interest flows.
Interest rate swaps are also used to hedge the cash flow risk associated with changes in interest rates resulting from floating interest rates.
The net fair value of fair value interest rate hedging instruments was a 3 million asset at 31 December 2005 and the net fair value of cash flow interest rate hedging instruments was a 44 million liability at 31 December 2005.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 91 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 34.
Financial instruments continued Effective interest rate analysis In respect of income-earning financial assets and interest-bearing financial liabilities, the following table indicates their effective interest rates at the balance sheet date and the earlier of the periods in which they re-price or mature: Effective Within More than interest rate Total 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years % m m m m m Available for sale government bonds 4.3 14 14 i Available for sale floating rate note 3.7 5 5 i Loans 4.7 46 46 Margining collateral included in other 4.2 39 39 i, ii receivables i, ii Cash and cash equivalents 4.5 1,075 1,075 Bank loans fixed 3.8 63 8 24 28 3 iii Effect of interest rate swap on bank loans 0.4 6 6 i Bank loans and overdrafts floating 5.5 63 63 i, iv Other bank loans 36.0 637 637 v Sterling bonds 5.9 422 422 iii Effect of interest rate swaps on sterling bonds 0.4 207 207 i Commercial paper 4.3 377 377 Finance lease obligations fixed 5.9 451 16 18 65 352 i Finance lease obligations floating 4.6 377 377 Effect of interest rate swap on finance lease 2.4 240 240 iii obligations i Margining collateral included within other payables 4.4 537 537 Non recourse borrowings vi Canadian dollar bonds 4.9 250 250 i These assets liabilities bear interest at a floating rate.
ii Excludes non-interest bearing balances.
iii Effect of interest rate derivative on swapped portion of financial instrument at 31 December 2005. iv Centrica formed The Centrica Gas Production LP, a limited partnership, during the year.
Certain Morecambe gas field assets have been contributed to the partnership by Hydrocarbon Resources Limited, a Centrica Group company.
On 2 December 2005 a bank became a limited partner in this partnership.
The Centrica Group retains full operational control of the Morecambe gas fields as Hydrocarbon Resources Limited retains legal ownership of the Morecambe licences and is also the general partner and asset manager of the partnership.
The partnership is included on a consolidated basis within the accounts of the Centrica Group.
The bank is one of the limited partners of the partnership and at the discretion of the asset manager is entitled to a specified share of the pre-tax partnership profits arising from South Morecambe after taking account of petroleum revenue tax and any losses.
All the other limited partners are Centrica Group companies.
The banks accession to the partnership has been accounted for as a loan in the Group accounts, repayable out of the partnership distributions made to it.
The costs of this loan will accordingly vary, within pre-determined and defined limits, according to levels of field production, operating costs and repayments, wholesale prices and interest rates.
Due to the structure of the transaction the costs of the loan reflect the fact that there is a reduced overall tax charge to the Centrica Group.
The loan is repayable as follows: less than one year 188 million: one to two years 339 million: two to five years 74 million and greater than five years 36 million.
On 2 December 2005 the Group also entered into a Put and Call Option arrangement with the bank over the banks partnership interest.
Any exercise of the option is contingent upon the occurrence of certain events up to 2 December 2012, and thereafter may occur at any time.
The option exercise price is dependent on the quantum of partnership profits generated from the South Morecambe gas field production partnership and distributions made and interest rates.
v Sterling bonds are stated at a face value of 415 million.
As disclosed in note 21 these bonds are stated in the Group Balance Sheet net of 4 million of issuance discount, and at fair value where hedged.
vi The bonds are expected to be repaid between 2008 and 2010 in advance of the maturity dates.
d Currency risk Currency risk is the risk that the Group suffers financial loss as a result of changes in the value of an asset or liability or in the value of future cash flows due to movements in foreign currency exchange rates.
Through wholly owned US, Canadian and European subsidiaries, the Group has exposures to US dollars, Canadian dollars and euros.
The Groups policy is to protect the sterling value of overseas investments by entering into net investment hedges.
The Group hedges all exposures to foreign currencies arising from operating activities where practicable.
There were no material financial assets or liabilities other than in the Groups functional currencies, except for 92 million of liabilities denominated in euros.
The euro liabilities represent short-term cash flow timing differences and the fair value of gas and power commodity contracts.
92 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 34.
Financial instruments continued Net investment hedges Centrica hedges the carrying value of its overseas investments through holding either foreign currency debt or entering into foreign currency derivatives or a mixture of both.
Centrica enters into short-term foreign exchange forwards and medium-term cross-currency interest rate swaps to hedge the net investments.
Changes in the sterling value of borrowings or derivatives are used to offset changes in the sterling value of the investments.
The net fair value of net investment hedging instruments at 31 December 2005 was a 468 million liability, consisting of borrowings of 377 million and derivative financial instruments of 91 million.
Cash flow hedges Forward foreign exchange contracts are used to hedge the risk that future foreign currency cash flows vary with changes in foreign exchange rates by fixing the sterling value of a specified foreign currency amount on a specified basis.
The net fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as currency cash flow hedging instruments at 31 December 2005 was a 8 million liability.
The maturity analysis of amounts included in the cash flow hedging reserve, which includes fair value gains and losses in relation to commodity, interest rate risk and currency hedges is as follows: Cash flow hedging reserve m Less than one year 282 One to two years 138 Two to five years 43 More than five years 9 454 e Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not have sufficient funds to meet liabilities.
Cash forecasts identifying the liquidity requirements of the Group are produced frequently.
These are reviewed regularly to ensure sufficient financial headroom exists for at least a 12 month period.
The Groups policy includes maintaining a minimum level of committed facilities of 800 million less available cash resources and that at least 50% of net debt excluding non-recourse debt over 200 million should be longterm, spread over a range of maturities.
Borrowings At 31 December 2005, the Group had undrawn committed bank borrowing facilities of 1 billion.
In addition the Group has access to a number of uncommitted facilities.
The principal debt facilities in use by the Group at 31 December 2005 consisted of a US commercial paper programme of US$2 billion and a Euro Medium Term Note EMTN programme of US$2 billion.
At 31 December 2005, US$658 million had been issued under the commercial paper programme and bonds totalling 415 million were outstanding under the EMTN programme.
All the commercial paper issued was held in US dollars to hedge the Groups net investments in North America.
ii Fair values The fair values of the Groups financial instruments together with the carrying amounts included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet are analysed below.
Balances excluded from the scope of IAS 32 comprise trade and other receivables with a carrying value of 296 million, trade and other payables with a carrying value of 274 million and provisions of 354 million.
2005 Carrying value Fair value Primary financial assets m m Loans and receivables: i, ii Trade and other receivables 3,150 3,150 ii, iii Loans 46 46 iii, iv, v Available for sale assets 45 45 ii Cash and cash equivalents 1,239 1,239 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 93 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 34.
Financial instruments continued 2005 Carrying value Fair value Primary financial liabilities m m Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost: i, ii Trade and other payables 3,369 3,369 i, ii Provisions 271 271 Businesses recourse borrowings vi Bank loans and overdrafts 126 118 vii Other bank loans 637 637 iv Sterling bonds 422 425 ii Commercial paper 377 377 viii Obligations under finance leases including power station tolling arrangements 828 856 Businesses non-recourse borrowings iv Canadian dollar bonds 250 261 iv Units of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund 282 282 2005 Carrying value Fair value Derivative financial instruments m m ix Derivative financial instruments held for trading x Energy derivatives assets 1,873 1,873 xi Energy derivatives liabilities 1,664 1,664 Interest rate derivatives assets 18 18 Interest rate derivatives liabilities 20 20 Foreign exchange derivatives assets 4 4 Foreign exchange derivatives liabilities 1 1 Net total 210 210 ix Derivative financial instruments in hedging relationships Energy derivatives assets 488 488 Energy derivatives liabilities 7 7 Interest rate derivatives assets 44 Interest rate derivatives liabilities 45 45 Foreign exchange derivatives assets 3 3 Foreign exchange derivatives liabilities 102 102 Net total 341 341 i Balances which are outside the scope of IAS 32 have been excluded.
ii Due to the nature and or short maturity of these financial instruments, carrying value approximated fair value.
iii Included within other financial assets in the consolidated Balance Sheet.
iv Fair value determined with reference to closing market prices.
v Includes 26 million of equity instruments.
vi Fair value of bank overdrafts and current loans is equivalent to carrying value due to the short-term maturity.
The fair value of non-current loans is based on future cash flows discounted using discount rates based on the Groups cost of borrowing of 5%.
vii Fair value approximates carrying value.
As described above the finance costs and repayments vary within pre-determined and defined limits, according to levels of field production, operating costs, wholesale gas prices and interest rates.
The loan re-prices within one year.
viii Fair values have been determined based on future cash flows, discounted using discount rates based upon the Groups cost of borrowing of 5%.
ix Included within derivative financial instruments in the consolidated Balance Sheet.
The principal value of energy derivatives at 31 December 2005 was 45,345 million of which 18,150 million had a maturity of less than one year, 19,609 million had maturity between one and five years and 7,586 million had a maturity greater than five years.
The principal value of interest rate derivatives was 1,053 million of which 300 million had a maturity of less than one year and 753 million had a maturity of greater than one year.
The principal value of foreign exchange derivatives was 1,718 million of which 1,188 million had a maturity of less than one year and 530 million had a maturity of greater than one year.
Principal values are undiscounted and are derived from the aggregated volumes, estimated using valuation techniques, of those sales and purchase contracts which are within the scope of IAS 39.
The principal value differs in scope and in basis from the estimated commitment to make payments under procurement contracts, disclosed in note 32 g. The principal value provides an indication of the scope of the use of derivatives but does not reflect the risk the Group is exposed to from entering into derivatives.
x Includes 284 million in relation to proprietary trading.
xi Includes 272 million in relation to proprietary trading.
94 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 34.
Financial instruments continued The major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of derivative financial instruments are as follows: Energy derivatives In order to reduce commodity price risk, the Group procures gas and electricity through a mixture of production from owned gas fields and power stations and procurement contracts.
Certain of these procurement contracts and certain sales contracts constitute derivative financial instruments which are within the scope of IAS 39 and whose fair value is recorded in the Financial Statements.
These fair value balances therefore represent only a part of the Groups overall gas procurement activities.
The criteria for determining treatment of contracts in accordance with IAS 39 are outlined in note 3.
The fair values represent the unrealised gains and losses from holding commodity contracts at the balance sheet date, for delivery in future periods, that are not indexed to the market price of the commodity which is the subject of the contract or for which the price is fixed in advance of delivery.
These fair values are subject to change resulting from changes in commodity prices, and may not be realised.
The methods and assumptions applied in determining fair values are described under UK markets and North American markets below.
The effect of changes in assumptions, and sensitivities to changes in commodity prices, are set out in Effect of changes in assumptions and sensitivities below.
The net fair value of the contracts included within Energy Derivatives in the table on page 94 is 690 million and consists of the following balances: 2005 m Derivative financial instruments held for trading Energy derivatives assets 1,873 Energy derivatives liabilities 1,664 Derivative financial instruments in hedging relationships Energy derivatives assets 488 Energy derivatives liabilities 7 Net total 690 The contracts included within energy derivatives are subject to a wide range of detailed specific terms but comprise the following general components: 2005 m Short-term forward market purchases of gas and electricity UK and Europe 873 North America 363 Long-term gas purchase contracts 553 Long-term gas sales contracts 1,110 Other 11 Net total 690 The aggregated principal value of energy derivatives sales and purchases, and its range of maturities, which provides an indication of the underlying maturity profile, is contained in footnote ix above.
The cash flows arising in relation to these contracts will occur either as physical delivery takes place over the life of the individual contracts, or as a result of the contracts being traded or may not be realised depending on market price movements.
The Group's strategy for entering into energy derivatives, and a summary of the terms and conditions of these contracts, is outlined on pages 90 and 91.
Certain other commodity contracts are outside the scope of IAS 39 and are not fair valued in the Financial Statements.
The disclosures that follow relate only to the fair values of contracts entered into which are within the scope of IAS 39.
UK markets Fair values of commodity contracts are estimated by reference in part to published price quotations in active markets and in part by using valuation techniques.
Management consider the UK markets for gas and electricity to be active for up to two years, with reliable broker quotes and published prices available for this period.
In the active period of the market, financial instruments are valued against forward market prices available at 31 December 2005.
Outside the active period financial instruments are valued using commodity prices derived using assumptions that are based on market expectations and reasonably reflect all factors that market participants would consider in setting a price.
Forecast prices are derived for the commodities which are the subject of the contracts primarily gas and for commodities whose indices are incorporated in the price calculation formulae of certain long-term contracts.
These include oil and oil products, coal, and general indices such as the Producer Price Index PPI.
Fair values are discounted based on the yields on zero-coupon bonds with differing maturity dates as available in the market, and interpolated to arrive at monthly rates.
The total change in fair value estimated using valuation techniques that was recognised in the Income Statement during the year amounted to a loss of 91 million.
The net fair value of commodity contracts recorded in the Financial Statements determined using valuation techniques at 31 December 2005 is a 170 million liability.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 95 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 34.
Financial instruments continued Assumptions made in determining fair values The most significant assumptions incorporated in the valuation techniques used to value commodity contracts at 31 December 2005 are as follows: New gas infrastructure capacity will strengthen the direct linkage between UK and continental European gas prices in the medium-term.
A potential oversupply of gas to the UK market will lower prices during this time.
Interaction between US and European gas prices will occur in certain periods as cargoes of LNG may be directed to either European or US markets.
Liberalisation of the European gas market will weaken the linkage between oil prices and gas prices in the medium-term.
Continued increases in gas demand will not be matched by equivalent increases in supply in the long-term causing upward pressure on prices in the long-term.
Electricity prices are derived from gas prices, carbon prices and the spark spread the margin between fuel input prices and electricity sales prices.
Gas-fired power stations are assumed to determine the long run marginal price of electricity in the UK for the foreseeable future.
Oil prices are based on the views held by a cross-section of independent external market experts.
Coal prices are based on the assumption that market prices will be dominated by the cost of imported coal and that the price of coal shows some linkage to the price of oil.
For contracts with volume optionality it is assumed that counterparties act to maximise the economic value of the contract.
It is assumed that markets would allow the sale or purchase of each commodity in equivalent volumes to those contracted at the forecast market price.
Effect of changes in assumptions and sensitivities Either of the following alternative assumptions, or a combination of these alternative assumptions, would significantly increase forecast gas and electricity prices outside the active period of the market: higher oil prices and continued strong linkage between oil and gas prices: lower supply to the UK gas market, for instance due to insufficient new infrastructure being put in place, or due to higher worldwide competition for gas supplies.
The impact of changing to either of these reasonably possible alternative assumptions, individually or in combination would be to increase the net fair value liabilities for commodity contracts outside the active period of the market at 31 December 2005 by an estimated 35 million.
Management consider it likely that the occurrence of these alternative assumptions would be accompanied by an increase in gas and electricity prices in the active period of the market.
An average increase of 20p th for gas and 15 MWh for electricity is considered reasonably possible at 31 December 2005.
The impact of such increases in gas and electricity prices in the active period would be to increase net fair value assets at 31 December 2005 by 686 million.
In combination the increase in gas and electricity prices in the active and inactive periods would increase net fair value assets at 31 December 2005 by an estimated 651 million.
A combination of the following alternative assumptions would significantly decrease forecast gas prices outside the active period of the market: lower oil prices and continued linkage between oil and gas prices: a discontinuation of the linkage between oil and gas prices in the medium-term: liberalisation in the European gas market, if this were to result in increased competition between gas producers: a degree of oversupply to the UK gas market resulting from new infrastructure or lower worldwide demand for gas.
The impact of changing to a reasonably possible combination of these alternative assumptions would be to decrease the net fair value liabilities for commodity contracts outside the active period of the market at 31 December 2005 by approximately 20 million.
Management consider it likely that the occurrence of these alternative assumptions would be accompanied by a decrease in gas prices in the active period of the market.
An average decrease of 20p th for gas and 15 MWh for electricity is considered reasonably possible at 31 December 2005.
The impact of such decreases in gas and electricity prices in the active period would be to decrease net fair value assets at 31 December 2005 by 681 million.
In combination the decrease in gas and electricity prices in the active and inactive periods would decrease net fair value assets at 31 December 2005 by an estimated 661 million.
The impacts disclosed above result from changing the assumptions used for fair valuing commodity contracts to reasonably possible alternative assumptions at the balance sheet date.
These impacts are not necessarily indicative of the changes in fair value that would occur if these events actually take place in the future, as contractual positions change over time.
The fair value impacts only concern those contracts entered into which are within the scope of IAS 39 and should not be construed as a measure of the Groups exposure to cash flow risk resulting from changes in commodity prices.
96 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 34.
Financial instruments continued North American markets Management consider the North American markets for gas and electricity to be active for between one and five years and vary depending on delivery point.
The fair value of financial instruments recorded in the Financial Statements is primarily based on quoted market prices in active markets.
Management consider an average increase in gas prices of 16 p th and an average increase in power prices of 10 MWh reasonably possible at 31 December 2005.
The impact of such increases in commodity prices would be to increase net fair value assets at 31 December 2005 by 777 million.
Management consider an average decrease in gas prices of 15 p th and an average decrease in power prices of 9 MWh reasonably possible at 31 December 2005.
The impact of such decreases in commodity prices would be to decrease net fair value assets at 31 December 2005 by 704 million.
Foreign exchange derivatives Fair values are determined by reference to closing exchange rates at 31 December 2005.
Interest rate derivatives Fair values have been determined with reference to closing interest rates at 31 December 2005. iii Comparatives The financial instrument comparatives prepared in accordance with FRS 13 are reproduced below as required by IFRS 1.
These disclosures are unchanged from those which were included in Centricas 2004 Annual Report and Accounts prepared under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
The interest rate risk profile of the Groups financial assets at 31 December was as follows: a Interest rate risk profile of financial instruments 2004 US Canadian dollar dollar Sterling Total Financial assets Floating interest rate m 3 8 1,172 1,183 Fixed interest rate m 43 5 48 i No interest receivable m 20 20 Total financial assets m 3 51 1,197 1,251 Weighted average fixed interest rate % 13.5 4.2 12.5 Weighted average period for which rate is fixed months 59 50 58 Weighted average period for which no interest is receivable months With the exception of uncleared items, floating rate financial assets attract interest at rates based upon LIBOR for periods of one year or less.
i Financial assets on which no interest is paid relate to unit trust investments, for which no maturity date is specified.
After taking into account forward foreign currency swaps, the interest rate profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December was as follows: 2004 US Canadian b Financial liabilities dollar dollar Sterling Total Floating interest rate m 271 12 468 751 Fixed interest rate m 256 269 525 i No interest payable m 164 34 198 Total financial liabilities m 271 432 771 1,474 Weighted average fixed interest rate % 4.8 5.8 5.3 Weighted average period for which rate is fixed months 109 74 91 Weighted average period for which no interest is payable months 47 47 Floating rate financial liabilities bear interest at rates based upon LIBOR for periods of one day to six months.
i Financial liabilities on which no interest is paid include 164 million relating to non-equity minority interests.
Non-equity minority interests relate to the 80.1% economic interest in The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund, represented by units listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange, for which no maturity date is specified.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 97 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 34.
Financial instruments continued c Currency risk Sterling, Canadian and US dollars were the functional currencies for all material operations in 2004.
There were no material monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than these functional currencies, except for 7 million of monetary assets denominated in euros.
The euro assets represent short-term cash flow timing differences and margin requirements on European gas trading activities.
The maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December was as follows: 2004 Other Total financial financial Borrowings liabilities liabilities Maturity of financial liabilities m m m In one year or less, or on demand 468 121 589 In more than one year but not more than two years 9 24 33 In more than two years but not more than five years 24 19 43 In more than five years 632 18 650 i Non-equity minority interests 164164 1,133 346 1,479 The maturity profile of borrowings includes 540 million of sterling bonds stated at face value.
As disclosed in note 21, these bonds are stated in the Group Balance Sheet net of 5 million of issuance discount.
i As noted above, no maturity date is specified for non-equity minority interests.
d Borrowing facilities At 31 December 2004, the Group had undrawn committed bank borrowing facilities of 915 million.
Of these facilities, 50% mature during 2005, and the remainder in 2006.
The principal debt facilities in use by the Group at 31 December 2004 were uncommitted and consisted of a US commercial paper programme of US$2 billion and a Euro Medium Term Note EMTN programme of US$2 billion.
At 31 December 2004, US$420 million 220 million had been issued under the commercial paper programme and bonds totalling 540 million had been issued under the EMTN programme.
In relation to the bonds, 23% mature in less than one year and 77% mature after five years.
The following table shows the book and fair values of the Groups financial instruments at 31 December: 2004 Book value Fair value e Fair values of financial assets and liabilities m m Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Groups operations: i Cash at bank and in hand and current asset investments 1,2071,207 i Long-term trade debtors 44 44 Other financial assets 1,251 1,251 i Bank loans and overdrafts 85 85 ii Commercial paper 220 220 v Bonds 752 783 iv Finance lease borrowings 30 30 v Canadian dollar loans 39 35 i Loan notes 2 2 i Other financial liabilities 182 182 1,310 1,337 v Non-equity minority interests 164 264 1,474 1,601 Derivative financial instruments held to manage the Groups currency, interest rate profile and energy price exposures: ii v Forward foreign currency contracts, interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements 22 27 iii Energy derivatives 11 40 Derivative financial instruments held for trading: iii Energy derivatives 15 15 98 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 34.
Financial instruments continued i Due to the nature and or short maturity of these financial instruments, book values approximated fair values.
ii Fair values have been determined by reference to closing exchange rates at 31 December 2004. iii The fair values of energy derivatives are calculated as the product of the volume and the difference between their strike or traded price and the corresponding market prices.
The market price is based upon the corresponding closing price of that market.
Where there is no organised market and or the market is illiquid, the market price is based upon management estimates, taking into consideration all relevant current market and economic factors.
Energy derivatives held for trading includes both physical and financial energy contracts entered into for trading purposes.
iv The fair values of these financial instruments are based upon discounted cash flows, using discount rates based upon the Groups cost of borrowing.
v Fair values have been determined by reference to closing prices at 31 December 2004. f Gains and losses on financial instruments held for trading The Group engages in swaps, futures, forwards and options in gas, electricity and weather, for trading purposes.
Financial and physical trading positions are marked-to-market using externally derived market prices and any gain or loss arising is recognised in the Income Statement.
This is not in accordance with the general provisions of Schedule 4 of the Companies Act 1985, which requires that these contracts be stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value or that, if revalued, any revaluation difference be taken to a revaluation reserve.
However, the Directors consider these requirements would fail to provide a true and fair view since the marketability of energy trading contracts enables decisions to be taken continually whether to hold or sell them.
Accordingly the measure of profit in any period is properly made by reference to market values.
The effect of this departure from the historical cost convention on the Financial Statements for the year is an increase in profit amounting to 12 million and an increase in net assets at 31 December 2004 of 26 million.
Energy derivatives held for trading include both physical and financial energy contracts entered into for trading purposes.
The net gain from trading in energy derivatives included in the Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2004 is 14 million.
The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading purposes at 31 December 2004 included within other debtors and other creditors amounted to 119 million and 104 million respectively.
The average fair value of instruments held during the year ended 31 December 2004 did not materially differ from the year-end position.
g Gains and losses on hedges The Group uses financial instruments to hedge its currency, interest, energy price and weather exposures.
Changes in the fair value of these derivatives used are not recognised in the financial statements until the hedged position itself is recorded therein.
Unrecognised and deferred gains and losses on hedges arose as analysed as follows: Unrecognised Deferred Total net Total net Gains Losses gains losses Gains Losses gains losses m m m m m m At 1 January 2004 144 85 59 24 3 21 Arising in previous years that were recognised in 2004 84 26 58 21 2 19 Arising in previous years that were not recognised in 2004 60 59 1 3 1 2 Arising in 2004 71 48 23 11 1 12 At 31 December 2004 131 107 24 14 14 Of which: Expected to be recognised in 2005 84 64 20 6 6 Expected to be recognised in 2006 or later 47 43 4 8 8 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 99 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 35.
Fixed fee service contracts The Group adopted IFRS 4 with effect from 1 January 2005.
Fixed fee service contracts are entered in to with home services customers in the UK and North America Central Heating Care, Boiler and Controls Care, Gas Appliance Care, Gas Appliance Check, Plumbing and Drains Care, Kitchen Appliance Care and Home Electrical Care in the UK, and Heating Protection, Cooling Protection and Plumbing and Drains Protection in North America.
These contracts are of 12 to 24 months duration in the UK and continue in North America until cancelled by either party to the contract.
These plans incorporate both an annual service element and a maintenance element.
Fixed fee service contracts protect purchasers of these contracts against the risk of breakdown of electrical, plumbing, heating, cooling and household appliances, resulting in the transfer of an element of risk from contract holders to Centrica.
Benefits provided to customers vary in accordance with terms and conditions of the contracts entered in to, however generally include repair and or replacement of the items affected.
The risk and level of service required within the maintenance element of the contracts is dependent upon the occurrence of uncertain future events, in particular the number of call outs, the cost per call out and the nature of the fault.
Accordingly the timing and amount of future cash outflows related to the contracts is uncertain.
The key terms and conditions that impact future cash flows are as follows: Provision of labour and parts for repairs, dependent on the agreement and associated level of service: One safety and maintenance inspection in every year of the agreement for Central Heating Care, Boiler and Controls Care, Gas Appliance Care and Gas Appliance Check in the UK, and Heating Protection Plus and Cooling Protection Plus in North America : One safety and maintenance inspection in every continuous two year period of the agreement for Home Electrical Care, Kitchen Appliance Care and Plumbing and Drains Care : No limit to the number of call outs to carry out work included within the selected agreement: Caps on certain maintenance and repair costs within fixed fee contracts.
Revenue from fixed fee service contracts is recognised on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract, reflecting the benefits receivable by the customer which span the life of the contract as a result of emergency maintenance potentially being required at any point within the contract term.
Cost of sales relates directly to the engineer workforce employed by Centrica within home services, the cost of which is accounted for over a twelve month period with adjustments made to reflect the seasonality of workload over a given year.
The costs of claims under the fixed fee service contracts will be the costs of the engineer workforce employed by Centrica within home services.
These costs are accounted for over a twelve month period with adjustments made to reflect the seasonality of workload over a given year.
No further claims costs are accrued.
Weather conditions and the seasonality of maintenance can impact the number of call outs, the cost per call out and the nature of the fault.
Centricas obligations under the terms of its home services fixed fee service contracts are based on the following types of uncertain future events taking place within the contract period: Boiler, radiator, controls, hot water cylinder and pipe work breakdown: Gas fire, water heater, wall heater, and gas cooker breakdown: Hot and cold water pipe, overflow, cold tank, toilet siphon and radiator valve breakdown: Washing machine, tumble drier, dishwasher, fridge, freezer, cooker, oven, hob and microwave oven breakdown: Fixed electrical wiring system, fuse box, light switch, wall socket, circuit breaker and transformer breakdown: Ventor motor, circuit board, direct drive motor and flame sensor breakdown: Evaporator and condenser fan motor breakdown.
Centrica actively manages the risk exposure of these uncertain events by undertaking the following risk mitigation activities: An initial service visit is performed for central heating care.
If, at the initial visit, faults that cannot be rectified are identified, the fixed fee service contract will be cancelled and no further cover provided: An annual or bi-annual safety and maintenance inspection is performed to ensure all issues are identified prior to them developing into significant maintenance or breakdown issues: Caps on certain maintenance and repair work are incorporated into fixed fee service contracts to limit liability in areas considered to be higher risk in terms of prevalence and cost to repair.
100 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 35.
Fixed fee service contracts continued The Group considers the adequacy of estimated future cash flows under the contracts to meet expected future costs under the contracts.
Any deficiency is charged immediately to the Income Statement.
Service requests are sensitive to the reliability of appliances as well as the impact of weather conditions.
Each incremental 1% increase in service requests would impact profit and equity by approximately 4 million.
The contracts are neither exposed to any interest rate risk, significant credit risk, nor are there any exposures relating to embedded derivatives.
2005 2004 m m Total revenue 708 624 Expenses relating to fixed fee service contracts 602 566 Deferred income 50 50 The claims notified during the year were 231 million 2004: 214 million and were exactly matched by expenses related to fixed fee service contracts.
All claims are settled immediately and in full.
Events after the balance sheet date The Directors propose a final dividend of 7.4 pence per share totalling 268 million for the year ended 31 December 2005.
The second share repurchase programme of up to 500 million, announced on 24 June 2005, commenced on 3 October 2005.
14 Between 1 January and 21 February 2006, a further 8,950,000 shares of 6 pence each were repurchased and cancelled 81 for an aggregate consideration of 22.4 million, representing 0.25% of the Companys issued share capital.
This makes a total since October 2005 of 45,688,436 shares for an aggregate consideration of 58.4 million.
The share repurchase programme has currently been paused.
On 24 January 2006 the Group completed the disposal of its 49% share of the Chiswick field.
Cash proceeds of 8 million were received from CH4 resulting in a net profit on the disposal of 4 million.
On 31 January 2006 the Group completed the disposal of its 19% share of the Ensign field.
Cash proceeds of 2 million were received from Venture Production resulting in a net profit on disposal of 2 million.
On 1 February 2006 the Group acquired 100% of the partnership interests in Tenaska III Texas Partners TP for consideration of US$48 million 27 million in cash, and 100% of the equity interests in WillowTex pipeline Co. for consideration of approximately US$8 million 4 million cash.
Management considers it impracticable to disclose information about the fair value of the net assets acquired since the valuation exercise has not yet been completed.
On 16 February 2006 a fire occurred at the Rough Storage off-shore facility.
As a result of this it is anticipated that the facility will not be operational for some time.
It is not possible at the present time to estimate the financial effect of this event.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 101 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 37.
Principal undertakings % Group holding Country of in ordinary shares 31 December 2005 i incorporation and net assets Principal activity Subsidiary undertakings Accord Energy Limited England 100 Wholesale energy trading Accord Energy Trading Limited England 100 Wholesale energy trading Bastrop Energy Partners LP USA 100 Power generation British Gas Services Limited England 100 Servicing and installation of gas heating systems British Gas Trading Limited England 100 Energy supply Centrica America Limited England 100 Holding company Centrica Barry Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Brigg Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Canada Limited Canada 100 Holding company and gas production Centrica Energa SL Spain 100 Energy supply Centrica Energy Operations Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Gamma Holdings Limited England 100 Holding company Centrica KL Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica KPS Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Langage Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Overseas Holdings Limited England 100 Holding company Centrica PB Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Renewable Energy Limited England 100 Renewable energy holding company Centrica Resources Limited England 100 Gas and oil production Centrica RPS Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica SHB Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Storage Limited England 100 Gas storage Centrica US Holdings Inc USA 100 Holding company CPL Retail Energy LP USA 100 Energy supply DER Development No.
10 Limited Canada 100 Gas production Direct Energy LP USA 100 Energy supply Direct Energy Marketing Limited Canada 100 Energy supply and home services Direct Energy Services LLC Canada 100 Energy supply and home services Dyno Holdings Limited England 100 Home services Electricity Direct UK Limited England 100 Energy supply Energy America LLC USA 100 Energy supply Frontera Generation LP USA 100 Power generation GB Gas Holdings Limited England 100 Principal holding company Glens of Foudland Windfarm Limited England 100 Power generation Hydrocarbon Resources Limited England 100 Gas production Oxxio BV Netherlands 100 Energy supply Residential Services Group Inc USA 100 Holding company WTU Retail Energy LP USA 100 Energy supply Joint ventures Barrow Offshore Wind Limited England 50 Wind farm construction Segebel SA Belgium 50 Energy supply Partnerships ii The Centrica Gas Production LP England Gas production The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund is also consolidated as part of the Group in accordance with the requirements of IAS 27.
The Fund commenced operating on 17 December 2002.
At 31 December 2005 Centrica held a 19.9% interest in the Fund 2004: 19.9% through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Direct Energy Marketing Limited, which holds 100% of the class B exchangeable units in Waterheater Holding Limited Partnership, a subsidiary of the Fund.
Class B exchangeable units are exchangeable into units of the Fund and attract comparable voting rights to units of the Fund.
Units of the Fund are traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
i All principal undertakings are indirectly held by the Company, except for GB Gas Holdings Limited, which is a direct subsidiary undertaking.
The information is only given for those subsidiaries which in the Directors opinion principally affect the figures shown in the Financial Statements.
ii The Centrica Gas Production LP is a qualifying partnership and is included on a consolidated basis within the Financial Statements of the Group.
Hydrocarbon Resources Limited, a Centrica Group company, exercises management of the partnership as the general partner.
Its registered office is Millstream, Maidenhead Road, Windsor SL4 5GD.
102 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 38.
First-time adoption of IFRS The Group reported under UK GAAP in its previously published Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2004.
The analysis below shows a reconciliation of net assets and profit as reported under UK GAAP at 31 December 2004 to the revised net assets and profit under IFRS reported in these Financial Statements.
In addition, there is a reconciliation of net assets under UK GAAP to IFRS at the transition date for the Group 1 January 2004.
In preparing the restated financial information, the Group has early adopted: IFRS 5, Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations: IFRIC 4, Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease: The amendment to IAS 19 Employee benefits actuarial gains and losses, Group plans and disclosures: and IFRS 6, Exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources.
The rules for first-time adoption of IFRS are set out in IFRS 1, First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
IFRS 1 states that a company should use the same accounting policies in its opening IFRS balance sheet and throughout all periods presented in its first IFRS financial statements.
The Standard requires these policies to comply with IFRS effective at the reporting date of the first published financial statements 31 December 2005 under IFRS.
IFRS 1 allows exemptions from the application of certain IFRS to assist companies with the transition process.
Centrica has taken the following key exemptions: Financial instruments: The Group has elected to adopt IAS 32, Financial instruments: Disclosure and presentation and IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement from 1 January 2005 with no restatement of comparative information.
As a result, the information related to financial instruments in the comparative information in the Financial Statements is presented on the previous UK GAAP basis: Business combinations: The Group has elected not to restate business combinations prior to the transition date: Employee benefits: All cumulative actuarial gains and losses have been recognised in reserves at the transition date.
This is to maintain consistency with the prospective Group policy, whereby all actuarial gains and losses will be recognised directly in reserves via the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense: Cumulative translation differences: The Group has elected to reset the foreign currency translation reserve to zero at the transition date.
Any gains and losses on subsequent disposals of foreign operations will exclude translation differences arising prior to the transition date: and Share-based payment: The Group has applied IFRS 2: Share-based payment, to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
The Group disposed of its interest in the Onetel group of companies on 30 December 2005, and has subsequently re-stated the 2004 result of the segment as discontinued.
This restatement is reflected in the Group Income Statement and related Notes to the Financial Statements.
It is not reflected in the reconciliations below.
a Restatement of 2004 Notes m Reconciliation of profit before interest Profit before interest reported under UK GAAP 1,000 Petroleum revenue tax PRT i 209 Leases ii 87 Retirement benefits iii 50 Employee share schemes iv 2 Goodwill vi 123 Other income taxes vii 4 Discontinued operations viii 76 Presentational items ix 26 Profit before interest reported under IFRS 1,261 Notes m Reconciliation of profit for the year Profit for the year reported under UK GAAP 675 Petroleum revenue tax i 48 Leases ii 4 Retirement benefits iii 41 Employee share schemes iv 1 Goodwill vi 119 Other income taxes vii 1 Discontinued operations viii 72 Profit for the year reported under IFRS 637 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 103 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 38.
First-time adoption of IFRS continued Effect of transition to UK GAAP IFRS IFRS Reconciliation of equity at 1 January 2004 date of transition to IFRS m m m Non-current assets Goodwill 1,614 1,614 Other intangible assets 388 388 Property, plant and equipment 2,730 81 2,649 Interests in joint ventures and associates 94 61 155 Deferred tax assets 25 381 406 Trade and other receivables 92 92 Derivative financial instruments Other financial assets 3 22 25 4,558 771 5,329 Current assets Inventories 173 173 Current tax assets 31 31 Trade and other receivables 2,890 39 2,851 Derivative financial instruments Other financial assets 992 745 247 Cash and cash equivalents 34 723 757 4,120 92 4,028 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 3,469 129 3,340 259 Current tax liabilities 229 30 Derivative financial instruments 301 Bank overdrafts and loans 298 3 Provisions 23 23 3,996 73 3,923 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 104 104 Bank loans and other borrowings 781 326 1,107 Derivative financial instruments Deferred tax liabilities 541 49 492 Retirement benefit obligation 30 1,108 1,138 Provisions 489 23 466 1,945 1,362 3,307 Net assets 2,737 610 2,127 Equity Called up share capital 237 237 Share premium account 549 549 Merger reserve 467 467 Other reserves 1,267 610 657 Shareholders equity 2,520 610 1,910 Minority interests equity and non-equity 217 217 Total minority interests and shareholders equity 2,737 610 2,127 104 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 38.
First-time adoption of IFRS continued Effect of transition to UK GAAP IFRS IFRS Reconciliation of equity at 31 December 2004 m m m Non-current assets Goodwill 1,006 43 1,049 Other intangible assets 518 518 Property, plant and equipment 2,832 337 3,169 Interests in joint ventures and associates 112 94 206 Deferred tax assets 36 275 311 Trade and other receivables 151 83 68 Other financial assets 37 37 4,137 1,221 5,358 Current assets Inventories 158 7 165 Current tax assets 21 16 5 Trade and other receivables 3,128 78 3,050 Other financial assets 1,166 962 204 Cash and cash equivalents 41 925 966 4,514 124 4,390 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 3,506 214 3,292 305 Current tax liabilities 279 26 Bank overdrafts and loans 468 19 487 151 Provisions 151 4,235 4,253 18 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 93 1 94 Bank loans and other borrowings 660 785 1,445 Deferred tax liabilities 486 38 524 Retirement benefit obligation 705 705 Provisions 588 151 437 1,827 1,378 3,205 Net assets 2,571 263 2,308 Equity Called up share capital 233 233 Share premium account 575 575 Merger reserve 467 467 Capital redemption reserve 5 5 Other reserves 1,072 263 809 Shareholders equity 2,352 263 2,089 Minority interests equity and non-equity 219 219 Total minority interests and shareholders equity 2,571 263 2,308 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 105 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 38.
First-time adoption of IFRS continued Effect of transition to UK GAAP IFRS IFRS Reconciliation of profit for the year ended 31 December 2004 m m m Continuing operations Group revenue 18,303 6,662 11,641 Cost of sales 14,712 6,605 8,107 Gross profit 3,591 57 3,534 Goodwill amortisation 117 117 Exceptional items 104 104 Other operating expenses 2,432 207 2,225 Share of profits less losses in joint ventures and associates, net of interest and taxation 62 6 56 Group operating profit from continuing operations 1,000 261 1,261 Net interest payable 19 85 104 Profit from continuing operations before taxation 981 176 1,157 Taxation 306 214 520 Profit from continuing operations after taxation 675 38 637 Discontinued operations 63 63 Gain on disposal of discontinued operation 727 184 911 Profit for the year 1,402 209 1,611 Minority interests equity and non-equity 20 20 Dividends 1,387 73 1,314 Transfer from to reserves 5 282 277 Effect of transition to UK GAAP IFRS IFRS Reconciliation of cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2004 m m m Net cash flows from operating activities 1,115 154 1,269 Net cash flows from investing activities 298 199 497 Net cash flows from financing activities 1,438 150 1,588 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 25 203 178 Exchange rate translation differences on cash and cash equivalents 1 1 2 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 2004 18 723 705 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2004 44 925 881 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2004 are stated net of overdrafts of 85 million 1 January 2004: 52 million.
i Changes to the calculation of the PRT charge under IFRS do not affect the amount of PRT paid for the production of or the timing of cash paid to HM Collector of Taxes.
However, the adoption of IFRS does change the calculation of the deferred liability and therefore the timing of charges to the Income Statement.
Under UK GAAP there is no definitive guidance on the accounting treatment of PRT.
Under UK GAAP the Group accounted for PRT as a cost of sale within gross margin calculated on a unit of production basis, spread over the life of the field.
IFRS also lacks specific guidance on PRT, although the definitions of an income tax in IAS 12, Income taxes have led management to judge that PRT should be treated consistently with other taxes.
This treatment also changes the basis of calculation of the charge on a temporary difference basis.
At transition, the impact was to increase net assets by 68 million.
The overall PRT charge for the year ended 31 December 2004 increased by 48 million net of deferred corporation tax, and resulted in the re-classification within the Income Statement of 209 million of PRT costs from cost of sales into the tax charge.
At 31 December 2004, the impact was to increase net assets by 19 million.
106 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 38.
First-time adoption of IFRS continued ii IFRS contains specific guidance which sets out whether or not an arrangement contains a lease IFRIC 4.
Adoption of IFRIC 4 is not mandatory until 1 January 2006, but the Group has, as permitted, adopted it at the transition date, in order to aid comparability.
Certain third-party power tolling arrangements have been assessed to be leases in line with IFRIC 4.
When assessed against the criteria of IAS 17, Leases, certain arrangements have been assessed to be finance leases, due to the contractual terms and operating interests the Group has in the assets.
The assets and finance lease creditor balances have been recognised based on the fair values of the lease arrangements as determined at the inception date of the leases.
At transition, the effect was to increase net assets by 8 million, comprising additional assets of 334 million and additional liabilities of 326 million.
At 31 December 2004 the effect was to increase net assets by 12 million, comprising additional assets of 810 million and additional liabilities of 798 million.
In the Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2004, 82 million previously treated as a cost of sale under UK GAAP has been treated as interest payable, and 21 million has been recognised in operating costs in respect of depreciation of the plant, property and equipment.
In the Cash Flow Statement, operating cash flow has increased by 78 million and net cash outflow from financing activities has also increased by 78 million.
These arrangements included the Humber tolling arrangement, which was treated as a finance lease prior to the Groups acquisition of the remaining stake in Humber Power Limited on 19 September 2005.
Before the transaction, the Group had a 60% equity interest in Humber Power Limited, which was accounted for as a joint venture.
IFRS permits a choice in accounting for joint ventures which meet the definition of jointly controlled entities JCE.
This choice is between equity accounting a single line reflecting the Groups share in each of the Balance Sheet and Income Statement of the JCE, or proportionate consolidation showing the Groups share of each category of asset and liability, income and expense of the JCE.
The Group has adopted equity accounting for jointly controlled entities.
The impact on accounting for the Humber JCE after the change in accounting for the inherent leases at 31 December 2004 was to increase profits by 26 million and to increase investments in joint ventures by 88 million.
iii In the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2004, the Group measured pension commitments and other related benefits in accordance with SSAP 24, Accounting for pension costs, and provided the additional disclosures required by FRS 17, Retirement benefits.
The adoption of IAS 19 requires the pension obligations and assets to be measured in a manner similar to FRS 17, except that assets are valued at bid price rather than a middle market value.
IAS 19 requires the deficit to be shown gross under long-term liabilities rather than net of deferred tax.
The associated deferred tax asset is recognised but recorded separately within non-current assets.
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses directly through reserves, reported in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, as permitted by IAS 19.
The impact of adoption of IAS 19 at the transition date was to reduce net assets by 783 million, comprising liabilities of 1,116 million and a deferred tax asset of 333 million.
The impact on profit after taxation from continuing operations for the year ended 31 December 2004 was to reduce profit by 41 million.
The profit recognised on the disposal of the AA was increased by 202 million as a result of disposing of the associated pension deficit.
The impact on the Balance Sheet at 31 December 2004 was to reduce net assets by 559 million, comprising assets of 154 million and liabilities of 713 million.
iv IFRS 2, Share-based payments, introduces a number of changes in the way in which share schemes are accounted for.
UK GAAP excluded HM Revenue and Customs approved save as you earn schemes from its scope, removing any related charges from the Income Statement.
IFRS 2 has no such scope exclusions and requires its application to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as at 1 January 2005.
First-time adopters were not required to apply the standard to grants of equity instruments before 7 November 2002 and Centrica has not done so.
The second area of difference relates to the methodology for calculating the charge.
Under UK GAAP the charge was based on the difference between the market price of the share on the grant date, and the exercise price to be paid by the employee intrinsic value.
IFRS 2 requires the fair value of the award to be calculated and charged.
The impact was to increase deferred tax assets on transition and at 31 December 2004 by 6 million.
v A wider range of intangible assets are recognised under IFRS, particularly in respect of business combinations.
Under both IFRS and UK GAAP, an intangible asset is an identifiable non-monetary asset without physical substance.
Under IAS 38, Intangible assets, an asset is identifiable when it is separable that is, capable of being sold separately from the entity or arises from contractual or other legal rights regardless of whether those rights are separable, whilst under UK GAAP FRS 10 the assets must be capable of separate disposal without disposing of the related business.
Where intangibles are identified in business combinations this has the impact of reducing goodwill which is not amortised under IFRS and recognising other types of intangible assets, which are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Under IFRS, only computer software that is integral to a related item of hardware should be included as property, plant and equipment.
All other computer software should be recorded as an intangible asset.
The impact at transition was to reclassify 349 million from property, plant and equipment and 39 million of renewable obligation certificates classified within trade and other debtors under UK GAAP to intangible assets.
Furthermore, amounts capitalised under UK GAAP were expensed on transition to IFRS, resulting in a reduction to opening net assets of 5 million.
The associated depreciation was reclassified as amortisation of intangibles in the Income Statement but there was no net impact on earnings or operating profit as a result of this reclassification for the year ended 31 December 2004.
At 31 December 2004, the Group reclassified 66 million of goodwill, 385 million of property, plant and equipment, and 71 million of renewable obligation certificates as intangible assets.
vi IFRS 3, Business combinations prohibits the amortisation of goodwill and instead requires an annual impairment review in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets.
Therefore the goodwill amortisation charge under UK GAAP of 123 million for the 12 months ended 31 December 2004 was reversed in the IFRS restated results.
Assessments for impairment of goodwill were conducted at the transition date and none were identified.
An assessment was also performed during 2004 on an IFRS basis, which led to an impairment of 4 million as a result of the additional goodwill recognised from a deferred tax liability arising on acquisitions during the year.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 107 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 38.
First-time adoption of IFRS continued vii Under UK GAAP, deferred tax is provided on timing differences, whereas IAS 12, Income taxes requires provision to be made for temporary differences between carrying values and the related tax base of assets and liabilities excluding goodwill, except under certain specific circumstances.
As a result deferred tax needs to be recognised under IFRS in a number of areas where no deferred tax was required under UK GAAP.
These are as follows: Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences arising on acquisitions of businesses, where the recognition of assets or liabilities acquired at fair value differs to their tax base.
The Group recognised an additional deferred tax liability on acquisitions made during 2004 of 33 million, with a corresponding asset recognised within goodwill.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually, and at 31 December 2004, an impairment of 4 million was recognised on goodwill arising in this way referred to in note vi above.
Deferred tax arising on acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 of 54 million was recognised as an adjustment to opening reserves.
Under UK GAAP a deferred tax provision is made for tax which would arise on the remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings only to the extent that dividends have been accrued as receivable.
IAS 12 requires the recognition of deferred tax on the retained earnings of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose distribution is not within the control of the Group and which is likely within the foreseeable future, whether or not dividends have been accrued.
The Group recognised a liability of 7 million in the opening balance sheet, and an additional 2 million during the course of 2004. viii The Group has early adopted IFRS 5, Non-current assets and discontinued operations.
This required the restatement of the results of the AA to be included, post tax and interest, within discontinued operations, along with the associated profit on disposal.
ix The requirements of IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements, differ from UK GAAP.
In the Income Statement, the energy trading activities undertaken by our trading arm, Accord, and our North American proprietary trading business are presented on a net basis within revenue under IFRS.
Both unrealised gains and losses on net open financial and physical positions and realised gains and losses on liquidated positions are included within revenue.
This compares to the previous presentation under UK GAAP whereby liquidated sales were included within turnover, and liquidated purchases along with unrealised gains and losses on net open positions were included within cost of sales.
The impact of this presentational change was to reduce Group revenue and decrease Group costs of sales for the 12 months to 31 December 2004 by 6,025 million, with no net impact on earnings or operating profit.
In the 31 December 2004 Balance Sheet a number of items were reclassified under IAS 1, most notably the current element of provisions of 151 million presented as a current liability.
In the Cash Flow Statement, current asset investments with a maturity of less than three months are reported under IFRS as cash and cash equivalents rather than other financial assets.
This had the effect of increasing reported cash and cash equivalents by 723 million at 1 January 2004 and 925 million at 31 December 2004.
108 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 38.
First-time adoption of IFRS continued b Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 at 1 January 2005 IFRS 1, First-time adoption of IFRS, allows exemptions from the application of certain IFRS to assist with the transition process.
In accordance with IFRS 1, the Group has elected to adopt IAS 32, Financial instruments, Disclosure and presentation, and IAS 39, Financial instruments, Recognition and measurement, with effect from 1 January 2005, with no restatement of comparative information.
The effect of adopting these standards at 1 January 2005 was as follows: Effect of 31 December change in 1 January 2004 accounting policy 2005 Reconciliation of equity at 31 December 2004 m m m Non-current assets Goodwill 1,049 1,049 Other intangible assets 518 518 Property, plant and equipment 3,169 3,169 Interests in joint ventures and associates 206 14 192 Deferred tax assets 311 34 345 Trade and other receivables 68 24 44 Derivative financial instruments 55 55 Other financial assets 37 1 38 5,358 52 5,410 Current assets Inventories 165 165 Current tax assets 5 5 Trade and other receivables 2,929 10 2,919 Other financial assets 204 204 Derivative financial instruments 121 549 670 Cash and cash equivalents 966 3 969 4,390 542 4,932 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 3,186 6 3,180 106 867 Derivative financial instruments 761 Current tax liabilities 305 305 487 488 Bank overdrafts and loans 1 Provisions 151 151 4,235 756 4,991 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 94 5 89 Derivative financial instruments 6 6 Bank loans and other borrowings 1,445 252 1,697 Deferred tax liabilities 524 10 514 Retirement benefit obligation 705 705 Provisions 437 62 375 3,205 181 3,386 Net assets 2,308 343 1,965 Equity Called up share capital 233 233 Share premium account 575 575 Merger reserve 467 467 Capital redemption reserve 5 5 Other reserves 809 179 630 Shareholders equity 2,089 179 1,910 Minority interests equity and non-equity 219 164 55 Total minority interests and shareholders equity 2,308 343 1,965 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 109 Independent Auditors Report to the Shareholders of Centrica plc Independent auditors report to the shareholders Basis of audit opinion of Centrica plc We conducted our audit in accordance with International We have audited the parent Company Financial Statements Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing of Centrica plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 which Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test comprise the Balance Sheet and the related notes.
These basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in parent Company Financial Statements have been prepared the parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes audited the information in the Directors Remuneration an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements Report that is described as having been audited.
made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent We have reported separately on the Group Company Financial Statements, and of whether the Financial Statements of Centrica plc for the year ended accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys 31 December 2005. circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors all the information and explanations which we considered The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to the Directors Remuneration Report and the parent Company give reasonable assurance that the parent Company Financial Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company Financial of the presentation of information in the parent Company Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and Remuneration Report to be audited.
regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, Opinion has been prepared for and only for the Companys In our opinion: shareholders as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the parent Company Financial Statements give a true and the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report Companys affairs as at 31 December 2005: and is shown or into whose hands it may come save where the parent Company Financial Statements and the part expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Company Financial Statements give a true and fair view and Act 1985. whether the parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the parent Company  LLP Financial Statements, if the Company has not kept proper Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors accounting records, if we have not received all the information London and explanations we require for our audit, or if information 23 February 2006 specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company Financial Statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Operating and Financial Review, the Group Financial Review, the Corporate Governance Statement and the Gas and Liquids Reserves.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent Company Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
110 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
