Subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates BT Group plc is the parent company of the group.
Brief details of its principal operating subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates at 31 March 2005, other than the company, all of which were unlisted unless otherwise stated, were as follows: Group interest Country b c Activity in allotted capital of operations Subsidiary undertakings fide Albacom SpA Communication related services and products provider 100% ordinary Italy d British Telecommunications plc Communication related services and products provider 100% ordinary UK d BT Americas Inc. Communication related services and products provider 100% common USA d BT Australasia Pty Limited Communication related services and products provider 100% ordinary Australia 100% preference d BT Cableships Limited Cableship owner 100% ordinary International d BT Centre Nominee 2 Limited Property holding company 100% ordinary UK BT Communications Telecommunication services provider 100% ordinary UK d Management Limited BT ESPANA, Compania fide Servicios Communication related services and products provider 100% ordinary Spain Globales fide Telecommunicaciones, d S. A. d BT Fleet Limited Fleet management company 100% ordinary UK d BT Germany GmbH & Co. oHG Communication related services and products provider 100% ordinary Germany d BT Global Services Limited International telecommunication network systems provider 100% ordinary UK d BT Holdings Limited Investment holding company 100% ordinary UK d BT Hong Kong Limited Communication related services and products provider 100% ordinary Hong Kong 100% preference d BT Limited International telecommunication network systems provider 100% ordinary International d BT Nederland NV Communication related services and products provider 100% ordinary Netherlands d BT Subsea Cables Limited Cable maintenance and repair 100% ordinary UK d BT US Investments LLC Investment holding company 100% ordinary USA Communications Networking Services Communication related services and products provider 100% ordinary UK d UK Communications Global Network Communication related services and products provider 100% ordinary Bermuda d Services Limited dg Esat Telecommunications Limited Telecommunication services provider 100% ordinary Ireland cd Farland BV Provider of trans-border bre network across BTs 100% ordinary International partners in Europe df Infonet Services Corporation Global managed network service provider 100% common USA df Infonet USA Corporation Global managed network service provider 100% common USA d Syntegra Limited Systems integration and application development 100% ordinary UK d Syntegra Groep BV Systems integration and application development 100% ordinary Netherlands d Syntegra SA Systems integration and application development 100% ordinary France cd Syntegra USA Inc. Systems integration and electronic business 100% common International outsourcing services a The group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list, therefore, only includes those companies that have a more significant impact on the profit or assets of the group.
A full list of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates will be annexed to the companys next annual return filed with the Registrar of Companies.
b The proportion of voting rights held corresponds to the aggregate interest percentage held by the holding company and subsidiary undertakings.
c All overseas undertakings are incorporated in their country of operations.
Subsidiary undertakings operating internationally are all incorporated in England and Wales, except Farland BV and Syntegra USA Inc. which are incorporated in the Netherlands and USA, respectively.
d Held through intermediate holding company.
e In February 2005, BT acquired the remaining 74% economic interest in Albacom SpA, and is now 100% owned.
f In February 2005, BT acquired the Infonet group of companies.
g In April 2005, Esat Telecommunications Limited changed its name to BT Communications Ireland Limited.
Share capital bn billions Percentage Country of a b m millions Activity Issued owned operations Joint Ventures c LG Telecom Mobile cellular telephone system provider and operator Won 1,386bn 16.586% Republic of South Korea a Issued share capital comprises ordinary or common shares, unless otherwise stated.
All investments are held through intermediate holding companies.
b Incorporated in the country of operations.
c Held through intermediate holding company.
122 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005
