Board of directors and Operating Committee a Board of directors Andy Green Chief Executive, BT Global Services d, e, f Sir Christopher Bland Chairman Andy Green was appointed to the Board on 19 November Sir Christopher Bland was appointed to the Board as 2001.
He was appointed as Chief Executive of BT Global Chairman on 1 May 2001.
He chairs the Nominating and Services in October 2001.
Since joining BT in 1986, he Community Support committees.
has held a number of positions, including Chief Executive He was chairman of the BBC Board of Governors from of BT Openworld and Group Director of Strategy and 1 April 1996 until 30 September 2001.
Andy Green was a member of the former 1979, Sir Christopher was deputy chairman of the Executive Committee from February 1995.
Independent Broadcasting Authority and chairman of its a Complaints Review Board.
In 1982, he became a nonDr Paul Reynolds Chief Executive, BT Wholesale executive director of LWT Holdings and was chairman Paul Reynolds was appointed to the Board on from 1983 to 1994, when LWT was acquired by Granada 19 November 2001.
In April 2000, he was appointed as Group.
From December 1994 to May 2000, he was Chief Executive of BT Wholesale.
He joined BT from the chairman of NFC.
From 1977 to 1985, he was chairman companys predecessor corporation, which he joined in of Sir Joseph Causton & Sons.
1983, and has held a number of roles, including Director Sir Christopher, who was chairman of the of the Ofce of the Chairman, Director of Multimedia Hammersmith and Queen Charlottes Hospitals and, from 1999, Managing Director of Networks and Special Health Authority from 1982 to 1994 and Information Services.
He is a non-executive director of Eof Hammersmith Hospitals NHS Trust from 1994 to Access a Japanese corporation.
February 1997, was knighted for his work in the NHS in 1993.
He was chairman of the Private Finance Non-Executive directors b, e Panel from 1995 to 1996 and a member of the Prime Clayton Brendish Ministers Advisory Panel on the Citizens Charter.
Clayton Brendish was appointed to the Board on He is Senior Adviser at Warburg Pincus and chairman of 1 September 2002.
He is non-executive director and the Royal Shakespeare Company.
Aged 66. external chairman of the Meteorological Ofce Board, non-executive chairman of Close Beacon Investment Fund Executive directors and Echo Research Limited and a non-executive director a Ben Verwaayen Chief Executive of Elexon and Herald Investment Trust.
He is also a Ben Verwaayen was appointed to the Board on 14 January trustee of Economist Newspapers and the Foundation for 2002 and became Chief Executive on 1 February 2002.
Prior to his retirement in May 2001, He chairs the Operating Committee.
Clayton Brendish was executive deputy chairman of CMG Ben Verwaayen was formerly vice chairman of having joined the board when it acquired Admiral.
Clayton the management board of Lucent Technologies in the USA Brendish was co-founder and executive chairman of from October 1999.
He joined Lucent in September 1997 Admiral, incorporated in 1979.
He also acted as an as executive vice president international and became chief advisor to the Government on the efficiency of the Civil operating officer the following month.
Aged 58 Lucent, Ben Verwaayen worked for KPN in the b, c, d Netherlands for nine years as president and managing Sir Anthony Greener Deputy Chairman director of its telecoms subsidiary, PTT Telecom.
From Sir Anthony Greener was appointed to the Board 1975 to 1988, he worked for ITT in Europe.
He was appointed Joint Deputy executive director of UPS.
A Dutch national, he is aged 53.
Chairman and chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 January 2001.
He is the senior independent director.
a, f Hanif Lalani Group Finance Director He became Deputy Chairman and chairman of the Hanif Lalani was appointed to the Board on 7 February Remuneration Committee on 18 July 2001.
He was formerly Chief Sir Anthony is chairman of the Qualications and Financial officer for BT Wholesale.
Since joining BT in Curriculum Authority.
He was formerly chairman of 1983 he has held a number of positions, including Chief Diageo.
Prior to the merger of Guinness and Grand Executive of BT Northern Ireland and Managing Director Metropolitan, he was chairman and chief executive BT Regions.
Hanif Lalani was also Chairman of OCEAN of Guinness, having been chief executive of Guinness Communications BTs subsidiary in the Republic of since 1992.
He was awarded the OBE in January 2003 for b, c services to business in Northern Ireland.
He is a Chartered Louis R Hughes Management Accountant.
Louis Hughes joined the Board on 1 January 2000.
He is non-executive chairman of Maxager Technology Inc. a Ian Livingston Chief Executive, BT Retail USA.
He was formerly president and chief operating Ian Livingston was appointed as Chief Executive of BT officer of Lockheed Martin Corporation and previously Retail on 7 February 2005.
He was formerly Group executive vice president of General Motors.
Prior to joining BT, he Louis Hughes is a non-executive director was group finance director of Dixons Group from 1997. of AB Electrolux Sweden and Sulzer AG and ABB Limited He joined Dixons in 1991 after working for 3i Group and both Switzerland.
From 1993 to 2000, he was a member Bank of America International.
His experience at Dixons of the supervisory board of Deutsche Bank.
Louis Hughes spanned a number of operational and financial roles, both was granted unpaid leave of absence by the Board from in the UK and overseas.
He was also a director of 1 September 2004 to 30 June 2005 to lead the civil Freeserve from its inception.
He is a Chartered reconstruction effort for the US Government in Accountant and also a non-executive director of Hilton Afghanistan.
46 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 c, e The Rt Hon Baroness Jay of Paddington PC Operating Committee Baroness Margaret Jay was appointed to the Board Ben Verwaayen Chief Executive on 14 January 2002.
She was formerly Lord Privy Seal, Hanif Lalani Group Finance Director Leader of the House of Lords and Minister for Women.
Ian Livingston Chief Executive, BT Retail Previously, she was Minister of State at the Department of Andy Green Chief Executive, BT Global Services Health.
Dr Paul Reynolds Chief Executive, BT Wholesale Baroness Jay has held non-executive positions with See page 46 for biographical details.
Scottish Power, Carlton Television and LBC.
She has been a, e a member of the Central Research and Development Alison Ritchie Committee for the NHS, was a founding director of the Alison Ritchie joined BT from the companys predecessor National AIDS Trust, a governor of South Bank University corporation, which she joined in 1981.
She was appointed and a member of the Meteorological Ofce Council.
She a member of the former Executive Committee in is currently chairman of the Overseas Development December 2000.
Institute, a non-executive director of Independent News & Alison Ritchie was appointed Chief Broadband officer Media and a member of its International Advisory Board, in November 2002.
She directs and champions the and a member of the Committee on Standards in Public transformation of BT from a narrowband to a broadband Life.
Aged 65. company, and the delivery of high quality broadband services to residential, business and wholesale customers.
b, d, f John Nelson Alison Ritchie was formerly Chief Executive, John Nelson was appointed to the Board on 14 January BT Openworld.
Before joining BT Openworld, she was 2002.
A Chartered Accountant, he retired as chairman of BTs Restructuring Project Director, co-ordinating the Credit Suisse First Boston Europe CSFB on 31 January project teams working on the financial, organisational and 2002.
He was a member of the executive board and managerial restructuring of BT.
She is a member of the chairman of the European executive committee of CSFB.
board of the British Quality Foundation and a nonPrior to joining CSFB in January 1999, John Nelson executive director of Roffey Park Institute.
Aged 44. spent 13 years with Lazard Brothers.
He was appointed vice chairman of Lazard Brothers in 1990.
He was also a Company Secretary e chairman of Lazard S. p. A. in Italy and a managing Larry Stone director of Lazard Freres, New York.
Larry Stone, formerly Corporate Governance Director He was a non-executive director of Woolwich until it from 1 June 2000, was appointed Company Secretary on was taken over by Barclays Bank in 2000.
He previously held external relations and chairman of Kingsher and a non-executive director of regulatory roles with BT in Tokyo and Brussels and with Hammerson, of which he will become chairman in BT Cellnet now O2.
He is a trustee of the BT Pension September 2005.
Scheme and was a director of ProShare.
Aged 47. b, c Carl G Symon Key to membership of principal Board committees: Carl Symon was appointed to the Board on 14 January a Operating 2002.
He retired from IBM in May 2001 after a 32-year b Audit c career, during which he held senior executive positions in Remuneration d Nominating the USA, Canada, Latin America, Asia and Europe, e Community Support f including chairman and chief executive officer of IBM UK.
Pension Scheme Performance Review Group Carl Symon is chairman of a number of private All the non-executive directors are considered independent of the companies and a non-executive director of Rolls-Royce management of the company.
A US national, he is aged 59. b, c, d, f Maarten van den Bergh Maarten van den Bergh was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2000.
He chairs the Pension Scheme Performance Review Group.
Heis chairman of Lloyds TSB Group and a non-executive director of Royal Dutch Petroleum Company, British Airways and a member of the Supervisory Board of Akzo-Nobel.
Prior to his retirement in July 2000, Maarten van den Bergh was president of the Royal Dutch Petroleum Company and vice chairman of its committee of managing directors from July 1998, having been appointed a managing director of the Royal Dutch Shell Group of companies in July 1992.
A Dutch national, he is aged 63.
Board of directors and Operating Committee BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 47
