Ancillary information Description of business Additional information General development of business Exchange rates Hanson became a business focused purely on building materials in The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the average noon 1997 following the demerger of the old Hanson conglomerate.
The buying rates in US dollars per 1 to the nearest cent, calculated by major building materials companies remaining within Hanson at the time using the average of the exchange rates on the last day of each full were ARC, Hanson Brick and Cornerstone.
calendar month during the period.
Average Hanson management transformed the business into a world leading Year ended December 31, 2001 1.44 building materials company through a series of disposals and acquisitions, the largest of which was the acquisition of the Australian Year ended December 31, 2002 1.51 construction materials business, Pioneer International, in May 2000.
Year ended December 31, 2003 1.65 Year ended December 31, 2004 1.84 Following a series of restructurings, Hanson now operates as four identifiable trading regions: Hanson North America 46.7% of 2005 Year ended December 31, 2005 1.82 continuing turnover, Hanson UK 31.7% of 2005 continuing turnover, Year ending December 31, 2006 through February 21, 2006 1.76 Hanson Australia & Asia Pacific 15.4% of 2005 continuing turnover, and Hanson Continental Europe 6.2% of 2005 continuing turnover.
The following table sets forth the high and low noon buying rates for the last six months in US dollars per 1 to the nearest cent.
This structure reinforces a continued focus on our core values of cost High Low and margin control, together with disciplined and proactive growth via capital expenditure and bolt-on acquisitions.
August 2005 1.81 1.77 September 2005 1.84 1.76 North America October 2005 1.79 1.75 Hansons North American operations are organised into two operating groups, Hanson Aggregates North America and Hanson Building November 2005 1.78 1.71 Products North America, with a corporate office in Neptune, New Jersey.
December 2005 1.77 1.72 January 2006 1.79 1.74 a Hanson Aggregates North America Hanson Aggregates North America, headquartered in Dallas, Texas February 2006 through February 21, 2006 1.78 1.73 produces aggregates, ready-mixed concrete, asphalt and cement has over 350 operating locations throughout the USA.
Business overview Seasonality b Hanson Building Products North America Seasonality is a significant factor affecting all of our operations.
In our Hanson Building Products North America, headquartered in Dallas, major markets in the USA, the UK and northern Continental Europe, Texas, is divided into two sub-groups, Pipe & Precast and Brick & Tile.
activity is very much concentrated during the period between March and Pipe & Precast, also headquartered in Dallas, produces concrete pipes, November, while the winter in Australia and the rainy season and and products and precast concrete for the US and Canadian markets.
Chinese New Year in Asia Pacific cause a material slow-down in Brick & Tile, with its headquarters in Charlotte, North Carolina, produces operations during these periods.
Unusual weather patterns, in particular bricks for the US and Canadian markets from its principal manufacturing heavy and sustained rainfall during peak construction periods, can factories in Canada, Texas, and the Carolinas, and roof tiles from its cause significant delays and have an adverse impact on our businesses.
plants in Florida, California, Texas and Arizona.
Sources and availability of raw materials UK We generally own or lease the real estate on which the raw materials, Hanson reports as two groups in the UK, Hanson Aggregates UK and namely aggregates and clay resources reserves, essential to our main Hanson Buildings Products UK.
businesses are found, although in the case of the marine businesses of Hanson Aggregates UK and Hanson Aggregates North America, we a Hanson Aggregates UK operate under licences from the relevant national and local authorities.
Hanson Aggregates UK produces aggregates, ready-mixed concrete and asphalt in the UK through its own operations and is a partner in a We are also a significant purchaser of certain important materials such number of joint-venture companies, the most significant of which is as cement, bitumen, steel, gas, fuel and other energy supplies, the cost Midland Quarry Products Limited, owned jointly with a member of the of which can fluctuate by material amounts and consequently have an Tarmac group of companies.
adverse impact on our businesses.
We are not generally dependent on any one source for the supply of these products, other than in certain Included within Hanson Aggregates UK are Hansons marine dredging jurisdictions with regard to the supply of gas and electricity.
Competitive operations which, through a wholly owned subsidiary and United Marine markets generally exist in the jurisdictions in which we operate for the Holdings Limited, a joint-venture with a member of the Tarmac group of supply of cement, bitumen, steel and fuel.
In 2005, percentage price companies, supply sea-dredged aggregates to the UK, Belgium, changes in the cement market ranged from a 2%-20% increase.
Bitumen prices are affected by general oil price changes.
In 2005, percentage price changes in the bitumen market ranged from a b Hanson Building Products UK decrease of 11% to an increase of 46%.
Hanson Building Products UK supplies bricks and concrete products, concrete flooring, precast concrete and packed aggregates products Sales and marketing throughout the UK.
Although sales and marketing activities are more important in connection with our brick business in both the USA and the UK, where Australia & Asia Pacific branding of the product is a factor, in general the nature of the majority Hanson Australia is a major supplier of construction materials to the products, ie rock, sand, gravel, ready-mixed concrete and concrete Australian market.
Its operations are divided into two operating groups: products, and the cost of transportation means that marketing and Hanson Construction Materials, which produces ready-mixed concrete selling is conducted on a more localised basis, with an emphasis on and aggregates: and Hanson Building Products, which produces service and delivery.
Sales and marketing costs tend to be relatively low blocks, pavers and retaining walls.
Its other major interests include i its in relation to the overall delivered price of our products.
25% share in Cement Australia Holdings Pty Ltd, jointly owned with Rinker Group Ltd and Holcim Ltd, which operates cement plants in New Competitive position South Wales, Tasmania and Queensland, and ii Pioneer Road Services Statements relating to Hansons position as one of the leading heavy Pty Ltd, jointly owned with Shell Australia Ltd, which operates as an building materials companies, one of the largest producers of asphalt and contracting business.
aggregates and one of the largest producers of heavy building products are based on management estimates.
Hanson Asia Pacific operates in the south east Pacific region, principally in Malaysia, Hong Kong and Singapore.
Governmental regulation including environmental Many products produced by our operating units are subject to Continental Europe government regulation in various jurisdictions regarding production and Hanson Continental Europe operates various aggregates, ready-mixed sale.
We believe that our operating units have taken, and continue to concrete and asphalt operations in Spain, the Czech Republic, The take, measures to comply with applicable laws and government Netherlands, Belgium, France, Germany and Israel.
regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate so that the risk of sanctions does not represent a material threat to any of the operating units individually or to Hanson as a whole.
We also believe that compliance with these regulations does not substantially affect the ability of our subsidiaries to compete with similarly situated companies.
Ancillary information 133 Ancillary information continued In addition to the regulatory framework described above, our operating Property, plants and equipment units are subject to extensive regulation by national, state and local As of December 31, 2005, our operating units owned 1,121 plants agencies concerning such matters as planning, environmental and and other freehold properties, of which 486 were located in North health and safety compliance.
In addition, numerous governmental America, 297 were located in the UK, 295 were located in Australia permits and approvals are required for our operations.
We believe that and Asia and 43 were located in Continental Europe.
The remaining our operating units are currently operating in substantial compliance properties of our operating units throughout the world, including other with, or under approved variances from, various national, state and local manufacturing facilities, warehouses, stores and offices, were leased.
We do not believe that such compliance will materially None of the individual properties is considered to have a value that is adversely affect our business or results of operations.
In the past, our of major significance in relation to our assets as a whole.
For a subsidiaries have made significant capital and maintenance description of certain environmental issues that may affect our utilisation expenditures to comply with planning, water, air and solid and hazardous of our assets, see under the heading Governmental regulation waste regulations and these subsidiaries may be required to do so in the including environmental referred to above.
From time to time, various agencies may serve cease and desist orders or notices of violation on an operating unit or deny its applications Material contracts for certain licences or permits, in each case alleging that the practices of For details relating to the Deposit Agreement under which the Hanson the operating unit are not consistent with the regulations or ordinances.
ADSs were issued, the indentures under which the groups public In some cases, the relevant operating unit may seek to meet with the bonds were issued and various agreements and indemnities relating to agency to determine mutually acceptable methods of modifying or the demergers, see under the heading Exhibits included in Hanson eliminating the practice in question.
We believe that our operating units PLCs 2005 Annual Report and Form 20-F filed with the Securities and should be able to achieve compliance with the applicable regulations Exchange Commission.
and ordinances in a manner which should not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
In August 1998, an agreement was reached under which, for a one-off premium and related transaction costs totalling $275m, insurance cover Approximately, 100 present and former US operating sites, or portions of $800m after payment by the group of the first $100m of remediation thereof, currently or previously owned and or leased by current or former costs arising since January 1, 1998 was available to meet the costs of companies acquired by Hanson responsibility for which remains with a remediating the environmental liabilities relating to the former Koppers member of the Hanson group are the subject of claims, investigations, company operations of Beazer plc Beazer acquired by Hanson in monitoring or remediation under the US federal Comprehensive 1991.
The insurance cover is provided by the subsidiaries of two Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act CERCLA, leading reinsurance companies, Centre Solutions a member of the the US federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act or comparable Zurich Group and Swiss Re.
Administration of the environmental US state statutes or agreements with third parties.
These proceedings remediation programme will continue to be carried out by Beazer.
are in various stages ranging from initial enquiries to active settlement negotiations to implementation of response actions.
In addition, a In April 2005, we entered into a five year 500m multi-currency number of present and former Hanson operating units responsibility for revolving credit facility arranged by Barclays Capital and J. P. Morgan plc which remains with a member of the Hanson group have been named with a syndicate of banks.
This replaced our five year 519.2m facility as Potentially Responsible Parties PRPs at approximately 40 off-site due to expire in March 2006.
The new facility contains a US$947m landfills under CERCLA or comparable state statutes.
In each of these swingline advance facility and a sub-limit of up to 300m for Australian matters the Hanson operating unit is working with the governmental dollar loan note advances.
In addition, in July 2004, we entered into a five agencies involved and other PRPs to address environmental claims year US$475m facility arranged by Banc of America Securities Limited in a responsible and appropriate manner.
A substantial majority of and Citigroup Global Markets Limited with a syndicate of banks.
This these operating and landfill sites are covered by the environmental facility is available to be drawn as either cash advances or standby insurance policy referred to under the heading Material Contracts letters of credit.
Exchange controls We do not believe that any of the above proceedings relating to There are no UK restrictions on the import or export of capital including operating sites and off-site landfills not covered by the environmental foreign exchange controls that affect the remittances of dividends or insurance policy should materially adversely affect our business, other payments to non-resident holders of ordinary shares except as financial condition or results of operations.
At December 31, 2005, we otherwise set forth in Taxation information for US shareholders below had accrued 179.3m for environmental obligations, including legal and and except for certain restrictions imposed from time to time by HM other costs, at such sites as are not covered by the above-mentioned Treasury pursuant to legislation such as The United Nations Act 1946 environmental insurance policy.
Costs associated with environmental and the Emergency Laws Act 1964 against the government or residents assessments and remediation efforts are accrued when determined of certain countries.
to represent a probable loss and to be capable of being reasonably estimated.
There can be no assurance that the ultimate resolution Except for the general limitations contained in the Companys of these matters will not differ materially from our estimates.
Memorandum and Articles of Association and in the Deposit Agreement governing the Companys ADSs, and certain restrictions that may be We cannot predict whether future developments in laws and regulations imposed from time to time by HM Treasury under legislation as concerning environmental and health and safety protection will affect described above, under English law and Hansons Memorandum and our earnings or cash flow in a materially adverse manner or whether our Articles of Association, persons who are neither residents nor nationals operating units will be successful in meeting future demands of of the UK may freely hold, vote and transfer ordinary shares in the same regulatory agencies in a manner which will not materially adversely affect manner as UK residents or nationals.
our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Taxation information for US shareholders For other legal proceedings against Hanson, see note 26 of the Notes to The following paragraphs are intended as a general guide only and do the accounts.
not purport to be a complete technical analysis or listing of all potential tax effects relevant to the ADSs or the ordinary shares.
The statements Patents and trademarks of US federal tax laws set forth below are based on provisions of the US Our operating units have various patents, registered trademarks, trade Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, current and proposed US names and trade secrets and applications for, or licences in respect of, Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder, and administrative and the same that relate to various businesses.
We believe that certain of judicial decisions, all of which are subject to change, possibly on a these intellectual property rights are of material importance to the retrospective basis.
businesses to which they relate.
We believe that the material patents, trademarks, trade names and trade secrets of our operating subsidiaries This discussion addresses only US shareholders that beneficially own and divisions are adequately protected and that the expiration of patents and hold ADSs or ordinary shares as capital assets and use the US and patent licences should not have a material adverse effect upon our dollar as their functional currency, and that are either a citizen or resident business, financial condition or results of operations.
of the USA for US federal income tax purposes, or a corporation, or other entity treated as a corporation for US federal income tax purposes, Employees created or organised under the laws of the USA or any political As at December 31, 2005, the group employed 24,300 employees.
subdivision thereof, or an estate the income of which is subject to US An analysis of employee numbers by business and geographical area is federal income taxation regardless of its sources, or a trust, if a court found in note 4 of the Notes to the accounts.
We believe that in general within the USA is able to exercise primary supervision over the our relationship with our employees and trade unions or other bodies administration of the trust and one or more US persons have the representing our employees is good.
authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust each a US shareholder for the purposes of this discussion.
Ancillary information 134 The discussion does not consider the tax treatment of beneficiaries related property.
Any days during which a US shareholder has of trusts or estates, partnerships or other pass-through entities or diminished its risk of loss on the ordinary shares or ADSs are not persons who hold ordinary shares or ADSs through a partnership counted towards meeting the 61 day holding period required by the or other pass-through entity.
The UK does not currently apply a withholding tax on dividends under its internal laws.
However, if such a withholding tax were This discussion does not address all aspects of US federal income introduced, the UK would be entitled, under the Treaty, in certain taxation, such as US federal gift or estate tax, nor state or local taxation.
circumstances to impose a withholding tax at a rate of up to 15% on It does not address the tax consequences for financial institutions, dividends paid to a US shareholder.
Subject to applicable limitations, financial services entities, insurance companies, dealers in securities or a US shareholder who was subject to any such withholding should be foreign currencies, persons subject to the alternative minimum tax, entitled to claim a deduction for withheld tax or, subject to the holding persons owning directly, indirectly or by attribution 5% or more of the period requirements mentioned below, a credit for such withholding tax total combined voting power of the stock of Hanson, persons carrying against such holders US federal income tax liability.
The US foreign tax on a trade or business in the UK through a permanent establishment, credit limitation may be reduced to the extent that dividends are eligible persons who acquired ordinary shares or ADSs as compensation, for the reduced rate described above.
persons who elect mark-to-market accounting, tax-exempt entities or private foundations, persons that hold the ordinary shares or ADSs as Taxation of capital gains part of a straddle, hedge, constructive sale or conversion transaction or Upon a sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs, a US other integrated transaction, persons whose functional currency is other shareholder will recognise gain or loss for US federal income tax than the US dollar, certain expatriates or former long-term residents of purposes in an amount equal to the difference between the US dollar the USA or holders who elected to apply the provisions of the former value of the amount realised and the US shareholders tax basis income tax convention between the USA and the UK.
determined in US dollars in such ordinary shares or ADSs.
Generally, such gain or loss will be capital gain or loss and will be long-term capital US shareholders and holders of Hanson ADSs should consult their tax gain or loss if the US shareholders holding period for such ordinary advisors with regard to the application of the US federal income tax laws shares or ADSs exceeds one year.
Any such gain or loss generally will be to their particular situation, as well as any tax consequences arising income or loss from sources within the US for foreign tax credit limitation under the laws of any state, local or foreign taxing jurisdiction.
Long-term capital gain of a non-corporate US shareholder is generally subject to a maximum tax rate of 15%.
The deductibility of a Considerations relevant to the ADSs and ordinary shares capital loss recognised on the sale or exchange of ordinary shares or US shareholders of ADSs are not members of the Company but may ADSs is subject to limitations.
instruct Citibank N. A. the Depositary, as to the exercise of voting rights pertaining to the number of ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
If the ordinary shares or ADSs are publicly traded, a disposition of such However, US shareholders of ADSs are generally treated as the owners ordinary shares or ADSs will be considered to occur on the trade date, of the underlying ordinary shares for purposes of the US-UK double regardless of the US shareholders method of accounting.
A US taxation conventions relating to income and gains the UK-US income shareholder that uses the cash method of accounting calculates the US tax treaty and to estate and gift taxes the Estate and Gift Tax dollar value of the proceeds received on the sale as of the date that the Convention, and generally for purposes of the US federal tax laws.
However, a US shareholder that uses the accrual method of accounting is required to calculate the value of the proceeds of the sale Taxation of dividends as of the trade date and, therefore, may realise foreign currency gain or A US shareholder will be required to include in gross income as ordinary loss, unless such US shareholder has elected to use the settlement date income the amount of any dividend paid on the ordinary shares or ADSs to determine its proceeds of sale for purposes of calculating such on the date the dividend is received to the extent the dividend is paid out foreign currency gain or loss.
In addition, a US shareholder that receives of our current or accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for US foreign currency upon the sale or exchange of the ordinary shares or federal income tax purposes.
Dividends in excess of these earnings and ADSs and converts the foreign currency into US dollars subsequent to profits will be applied against, and will reduce, the US shareholders receipt will have foreign exchange gain or loss based on an appreciation basis in the ADSs or ordinary shares and, to the extent in excess of such or depreciation in the value of the foreign currency against the US dollar.
basis, will be treated as gain from the sale or exchange of such ADSs or Foreign exchange gain or loss will generally be US source ordinary ordinary shares.
In addition, dividends of current or accumulated income or loss.
earnings and profits will be foreign source passive income for US foreign tax credit purposes and will not qualify for the dividends-received A US citizen who is resident or in certain circumstance has been deduction otherwise available to corporations.
resident within the previous five UK years of assessment for tax or ordinarily resident in the UK or a US corporation which is resident Dividends paid out of current or accumulated earnings in foreign in the UK by reason of being managed and controlled in the UK or currency to a US shareholder will be includable in the income of a a US citizen who, or US corporation which, is trading in the UK through US shareholder in a US dollar amount calculated by reference to the a branch or agency and has used, held or acquired ADSs or ordinary exchange rate on the date the dividend is received, regardless of shares for the purposes of such trade, branch or agency, may be whether the dividend is in fact converted into US dollars on such date.
liable for both UK and US tax on any gain on the disposal of ADSs A US shareholder that receives a foreign currency dividend and converts or ordinary shares.
Subject to certain limitations, such a person will the foreign currency into US dollars subsequent to receipt will have generally be entitled to a tax credit against any US federal tax liability for foreign exchange gain or loss based on any appreciation or depreciation the amount of any UK tax namely, capital gains tax in the case in the value of the foreign currency against the US dollar, which will of an individual and corporation tax on chargeable gains in the case generally be US source ordinary income or loss.
of a corporation which is paid in respect of such gain.
An individual US shareholders qualified dividend income is subject to US information reporting and backup withholding tax at a reduced rate of tax of 15%.
For this purpose, qualified dividend A US shareholder is generally subject to information reporting income includes dividends from foreign corporations if a the stock of requirements with respect to dividends paid in the USA on ADSs or such corporation with respect to which such dividend is paid is readily ordinary shares.
In addition, a US shareholder is subject to backup tradable on an established securities market in the USA, including withholding currently at a rate of 28% on dividends paid in the USA on NASDAQ, or b such corporation is eligible for the benefits of a ADSs or ordinary shares unless the US shareholder provides an IRS comprehensive tax treaty with the USA that includes an information Form W-9 or otherwise establishes an exemption.
A US shareholder is exchange programme and is determined to be satisfactory to the US subject to information reporting and backup withholding currently at a Secretary of the Treasury.
The US Secretary of the Treasury has rate of 28% on proceeds paid from a sale, exchange, redemption or indicated that the UK-US income tax treaty which came into effect on other disposition of ADSs or ordinary shares unless the US shareholder March 31, 2003 the Treaty is satisfactory for this purpose.
Dividends provides an IRS Form W-9 or otherwise establishes an exemption.
will not, however, qualify for the reduced rate if such corporation is treated for the tax year in which dividends are paid or in the prior year Backup withholding is not an additional tax.
The amount of any backup as a passive foreign investment company for US federal income tax withholding will be allowed as a credit against a US shareholders US purposes.
Based on the nature of Hansons operations, Hanson does federal income tax liability and may entitle such holder to a refund, not believe that it would be treated as a passive foreign investment provided that certain information is furnished on a timely basis to the IRS.
Accordingly, if Hansons beliefs are correct, dividend distributions with respect to its ordinary shares or ADSs should be treated as qualified dividend income and subject to the US shareholders satisfaction of the holding period requirements described below, should be eligible for the reduced 15% US federal income tax rate.
A US shareholder will not be entitled to the reduced rate: a if the US shareholder has not held the ordinary shares or ADSs for at least 61 days of the 121 day period beginning on the date which is 60 days before the ex-dividend date: or b to the extent the US shareholder is under an obligation to make related payments on substantially similar or Ancillary information 135 Ancillary information continued Inheritance tax The United Kingdom imposes inheritance tax, broadly, on transfers of capital which occur on death and in the preceding seven years.
HM Revenue & Customs is known to consider that the Estate and Gift Tax Convention applies to inheritance tax and it is understood that, in practice, both the HM Revenue & Customs and the US Internal Revenue Service apply the provisions of the Estate and Gift Tax Convention to inheritance tax.
On this assumption, an ADS or ordinary share held by an individual who is domiciled in, or a citizen of, the United States and is not a national of or domiciled in the United Kingdom will not be subject to UK inheritance tax on the individuals death or on a transfer of the ADS or ordinary share during the individuals lifetime except in the exceptional case where the ADS or ordinary share is part of the business property of a UK permanent establishment or an enterprise or pertains to a UK fixed base of an individual used for the performance of independent personal services.
Special rules apply where an ADS or ordinary share is held in trust.
The Estate and Gift Tax Convention generally provides a credit for the amount of any tax paid in the United Kingdom against the US federal tax liability or for tax paid in the USA to be credited against the United Kingdom liability according to rules set out in the Convention in a case where the ADS or ordinary share is subject both to UK inheritance tax and to US federal gift or estate tax.
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax Stamp duty will, subject to certain exceptions, be payable at the rate of 1.5%, rounded up to the nearest 5, on any instrument transferring ordinary shares to the Custodian of the Depositary on the value of such ordinary shares.
In accordance with the terms of the Deposit Agreement, any tax or duty payable by the Depositary or the Custodian of the Depositary on future deposits of ordinary shares may be charged by the Depositary to the party to whom ADRs are delivered against such deposits.
No UK stamp duty will be payable on any transfer of an ADR evidencing an ADS, provided that the ADR and any separate instrument of transfer is executed and retained at all times outside the UK and is not required to be admitted in evidence in any proceedings in the United Kingdom.
A transfer of an ADR evidencing an ADS in the United Kingdom could attract stamp duty at a rate of 0.5%, rounded up to the nearest 5.
Any transfer which will include a transfer from the Depositary to an ADS holder of the underlying ordinary shares could result in a stamp duty liability at the rate of 0.5%, rounded up to the nearest 5.
On a transfer from a nominee to the beneficial owner the nominee having at all times held the ordinary shares on behalf of the beneficial owner under which no beneficial interest passes and which is neither a sale nor arises under a contract of sale nor is in contemplation of sale, a fixed 5 stamp duty will be payable.
The amount of stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax payable is generally calculated at the applicable rate on the purchase price of the ordinary shares.
Stamp duty reserve tax at a rate of 0.5% will be payable on any agreement to transfer ordinary shares or any interest therein unless an instrument transferring the ordinary shares is executed and stamp duty at a rate of 0.5%, rounded up to the nearest 5 has been paid.
Stamp duty reserve tax will not be payable on any agreement to transfer ADRs representing ADSs.
Incorporation of the Company Hanson PLC is a public limited company incorporated on December 31, 2002 in England and Wales.
Memorandum and Articles of Association The Companys Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association is included as Exhibit 1.1 to Hanson PLCs 2005 Annual Report and Form 20-F filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is incorporated herein by reference.
A summary description of certain provisions of the Deposit Agreement relating to the Companys ADSs was included in the Report on Form 6-K dated November 11, 2003 which was filed with the SEC.
The information set forth in the Report on Form 6-K dated November 11, 2003 which was incorporated by reference in certain Registration Statements is incorporated herein by reference.
Registered office 1 Grosvenor Place London SW1X 7JH Telephone 44 0 20 7245 1245 Documents on display Hanson furnishes annual and special reports and other information with the SEC.
These documents may be read and copied at the SECs Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N. W. Washington DC 20549.
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference rooms and their copy charges.
Filings with the SEC are also available to the public from commercial document retrieval services and on the website maintained by the SEC at www.
