Principal interests in Group undertakings Subsidiary undertakings Group interest in equity capital Country of incorporation per cent Nature of business Welding, automation and cutting products Europe ESAB AB Sweden 100 Welding consumables and equipment ESAB Vamberk s. r. o. Czech Republic 100 Welding consumables and equipment ESAB Cutting Systems GmbH Germany 100 Oxy-fuel, plasma, laser and water jet cutting ESAB Mor Kft Hungary 100 Welding consumables ESAB Sp z. o. o. Poland 100 Welding consumables ESAB Saldatura S. p. A. Italy 100 Welding consumables and equipment North America iv The ESAB Group Inc. USA 100 Welding consumables and equipment South America ESAB SA Industria e Comercio Brazil 100 Welding consumables and equipment Conarco Alambres y Soldaduras S. A. Argentina 100 Welding consumables and equipment Asia Pacific ESAB Asia Pacific Pte Limited Singapore 100 Welding consumables and equipment HD Engineering Limited Hong Kong 100 Drilling machines, components and accessories Air and gas handling Europe v Howden UK Limited Northern Ireland 100 Industrial and utility fans and heat exchangers Howden Sirocco SA France 100 Industrial fans v Howden BC Compressors France 100 Compressors v Howden BV Netherlands 100 Industrial fans Turbowerke Meissen Howden GmbH Germany 100 Industrial fans Howden Ventilatoren GmbH Germany 100 Industrial and utility fans Howden Power A S Denmark 100 Industrial and utility fans v Howden Spain SL Spain 100 Heat exchangers North America iv Howden Buffalo Inc. USA 100 Industrial and utility fans Asia Pacific Howden Hua Engineering Co Limited China 70 Industrial and utility fans and heat exchangers South Africa Howden Africa Holdings Limited South Africa 55 Industrial and utility fans, heat exchangers, gas cleaning equipment, pumps and cooling systems Associated undertakings Howden Compressors Limited Scotland 49 Screw compressors ESAB SeAH Corporation South Korea 50 Welding consumables ESAB India Limited India 38 Welding consumables and equipment Pump Brands Pty Limited South Africa 42 Pumps and related products i Each of the associated undertakings has only one class of capital.
ii The principal country of operation is the same as the country of incorporation.
iii The Group undertakings above are all held by subsidiary undertakings of the Company.
A full list of Group undertakings will be annexed to the Companys next annual return.
iv The ESAB Group Inc. and Howden Buffalo Inc. are both wholly owned subsidiaries of Anderson Group Inc. the holding company of the Groups US businesses.
v Howden UK Limited, Howden BC Compressors, Howden BV and Howden Spain SL were formerly known as Howden Power Limited, Burton Corblin SA, Ventilatoren Sirocco Howden BV and Howden Power Spain SL respectively.
