The British Land Company PLC Sponsorship British Land is strongly committed to investing in the future through British Land is working with the University of East London and education, the arts and sport.
Particular emphasis is given to helping other businesses in the City on the Enterprise Express initiative, young people improve their prospects and the quality of life.
to encourage enterprise in 16 to 18 year olds at school in the innercity boroughs.
This initiative is designed to encourage enterprising This year over 71,000 schoolchildren from more than 2,000 schools thinking as well as to provide local teenagers with the basic tools to are taking part in The British Land UK Chess Challenge.
Each secondary school will submit tournament is designed for all standards of play and all ages from a business idea.
The competition will culminate in a winner being 18 down to 6 years old.
Schools build their reputations, while selected from within all of the participating boroughs and being children benefit from constructive enjoyment as they develop offered further support to develop the business.
qualities of concentration, forward planning, resilience and flexibility.
British Land has sponsored Barnardos National Chess Week, British Land was 37th in the Guardian FTSE 100 Giving List 2004. which encourages children and others throughout the country to The Companys commitment to the future also includes being a play chess in National Chess Week, raising 1 for Barnardos for corporate partner of the London Business School and publishing an each game played.
award-winning series of Educational Broadsheets for schools.
British British Land is the sole sponsor of Degas, Sickert and Toulouse Land supports the Investment Property Forums Educational Trust, Lautrec: London and Paris 18701910 at Tate Britain from October Barnardos, the British Red Cross, Mencap and the NSPCC.
2005 to January 2006 and then at the Phillips Collection, The British Museum, The Royal Ballet School, the Royal Opera Washington D. C. in February to May 2006.
The exhibition features House, the Royal Academy of Music, the English National Opera, the more than 100 works and explores the influences of these three National Theatre, The Royal Shakespeare Company, The National masterful artists.
Gallery of Scotland, Wigmore Hall, Sadlers Wells and the Regents British Land is sponsor of Capital Kids Cricket which encourages Park Open Air Theatre have also received support.
and enables children, within inner city London, to participate.
The Company is a founding exhibition patron of the Royal Academy British Land was sole sponsor of Boucher: Seductive Visions at of Arts.
British Land has sponsored The Royal Parks new corporate the Wallace Collection which displayed an unrivalled range of membership scheme.
British Land supported the Lord Mayor of paintings by Franois Boucher alongside related eighteenth century Londons New City Architecture exhibition held at Broadgate.
British Land has been sole sponsor of The British Land National Ski British Land encourages its management teams to be sensitive Championships for 27 consecutive years and also sponsors The British to local issues in communities in which we operate and to sponsor Land Alpine Ski Team.
British Land has supported the London Olympic causes which help regeneration of the local community.
The Company was presenting sponsor of the 2005 Super Land has sponsored The Source Centre for Learning and Series Squash Finals at Broadgate.
The British Land British Open and Development at Meadowhall.
It offers a broad range of training with Amateur Championships for Real Tennis are now in their twelfth year.
the emphasis on retailing and IT.
In 2004, nearly 60 learners from 13 retail organisations at Meadowhall enrolled on work-based learning courses and over 10,000 people accessed the Services e-learning facilities.
Partners in Leadership is a highly successful project organised by Business in the Community.
Over 600 business partners are matched to head teachers throughout the country, providing a valuable sounding board as well as a link between the school and the business community.
British Land sponsors the Partners in Leadership Newsletter and encourages and supports its own employees involvement as business partners.
British Land supports staff, working through the Education Business Partnership in Camden, to provide reading support to primary school children.
The West Euston Partnership involves Camden Council, the Health Authority, the police, community associations, tenants, the church, the Crown Estate, British Land and other groups with a brief to unite the diverse Camden community.
British Land contributes to the Partnerships work and supports community regeneration in the area, including financial support each year for the West Euston Community Festival and providing premises for a community one-stop shop.
