The Organisations British Land would like to thank everyone involved in the photographic shoot for this years annual report, especially the organisations featured in these pages: Craven Dunnill Jackfield Ltd, Fiona Hutton Textile Conservation, Haysome Purbeck Stone, John Corley Stained Glass, Malleny Gardens, Newton Forge, Norman & Underwood and Rupert Harris Conservation CABE The Tower Building 11York Road London SE1 7NX www.
uk Department for Culture, Media and Sport Cristian Barnett was born in Newcastle on Head Office and Registered Office 24 Cockspur Street April Fools Day.
After studying photography London SW1Y 5DH 10 Cornwall Terrace at art school he spent the best part of seven www.
uk Regents Park years travelling around the Middle East, north Africa and eastern Europe, periodically English Heritage London NW1 4QP returning to base to work as a photographers Customer Services Department Telephone 44 0 207 486 4466 assistant.
PO Box 569 Fax 44 0 207 935 5552 Since setting up on his own, food Swindon SN2 2YP photography has been one of the staples www.
com of his commercial life.
His first big commission info@britishland.
com Historic Royal Palaces was for Food Illustrated, shooting in the The Tower of London bourbon country of Kentucky and Tennessee, London EC3N 4AB and he regularly contributes to the glossy food Designed by: CDT Design www.
uk monthlies as well as to Country Living and Photography: Cristian Barnett House and Garden.
His real passion, however, The Arts Council Copywriting by: Tim Shackleton is photographing people doing their jobs.
2 Pear Tree Court London office Typesetting by: Perivan Financial London EC1R 0DS I love this aspect of my work more than any other, he says.
uk Printed by: Fulmar Colour from meeting people who have real feeling The Civic Trust and enthusiasm for their work.
I sense it with the Essex Hall The paper used in this Annual Report is made from food producers and gardeners I work with, and 16 Essex Street pulp where for every tree felled 3-4 are planted.
I got the same excitement from the craftsmen London WC2R 3HU The mill recycles the water and millbroke or offcuts and women I photographed for this report.
uk and rejects used in the papermaking process.
The care they devote to each task is The Georgian Group incredible.
Each individual is highly accomplished RECYCLABLE 6 Fitzroy Square in their own right but theyre also carrying on a London W1T 5DX tradition of working to the ultimate standards.
uk Connecting with their world has been an uplifting experience for me.
Im delighted to The Historic Churches see that, far from being in decline, the demand Preservation Trust for their skills is actually flourishing.
uk The National Trust PO Box 39 Warrington WA5 7WD www.
uk The National Trust for Scotland Wemyss House 28 Charlotte Square Almost half the 18,000 churches in England Edinburgh and Wales are at least 500 years old, and some Scotland EH2 4ET are far older.
A vast amount of time, money, www.
uk faith and skill went into their construction, The Society for the Protection and maintaining their fabric demands of Ancient Buildings continuous investment.
The Historic Churches 37 Spital Square Preservation Trust offers support for renovation London E1 6DY www.
uk and restoration work, especially where this involves specialist measures that go beyond World Monuments Fund normal repair budgets.
2 Grosvenor Gardens London SW1W 0DH | Back cover Gloria in excelsis However well www.
uk loved our churches may be, vandalism is an endlessly recurring problem.
At his workshop in Deal, John Corley patiently brings a damaged window back to its former splendour.
