74 BRIXTON u INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF BRIXTON PLC We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Brixton plc for Basis of audit opinion the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the Balance Sheet and We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on the related notes A to Q.
These parent Company financial statements have Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts audited the information in the Report on Directors remuneration that is and disclosures in the parent Company financial statements and the part of described as having been audited.
the Report on Directors remuneration to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Brixton plc Directors in the preparation of the parent Company financial statements, for the year ended 31 December 2005. and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent Company no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors remuneration assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the have formed.
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors remuneration to Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors be audited.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Report on Directors remuneration and the parent Company financial statements in Opinion accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards In our opinion: United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice as set out in the the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial statements and the of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2005: and part of the Report on Directors remuneration to be audited in accordance the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Report on with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards Directors remuneration to be audited have been properly prepared in on Auditing UK and Ireland.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors remuneration to Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 1 More London Place Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Report on Directors London remuneration is not consistent with the parent Company financial statements, SE1 2AF if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not 27 March 2006 received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration Notes: and other transactions is not disclosed.
The maintenance and integrity of the Brixton plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans statement, 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial the Chief Executives review, the Operating review, the Financial review, the statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors report, and the unaudited part of the Report on Directors remuneration.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
