Glossary of terms Adjusted fully diluted NAV per share includes the effect of Market value is an opinion of the best price at which the sale those shares potentially issuable under the CULS or employee share of an interest in the property would complete unconditionally for options.
The capital allowances deferred tax provision is added back.
cash consideration on the date of valuation as determined by the Groups external valuers.
In accordance with usual practice, the Capital allowances deferred tax provision Full provision Groups external valuers report valuations net, after the deduction has been made for deferred tax arising on the benefit of capital of the prospective purchasers costs, including stamp duty, agent allowances claimed to date.
In the Groups experience liabilities and legal fees.
in respect of capital allowances provided are unlikely to crystallise in practice and are therefore excluded when arriving at adjusted Passing rent is the gross rent, less any ground rent payable under fully diluted NAV per share.
CULS is the Convertible Subordinated Unsecured Loan Stock.
Return on equity is the total return, including revaluation surplus, divided by opening equity plus time weighted additions to share Earnings per share EPS is the profit on ordinary activities capital, excluding share options exercised, less reductions in after taxation and minority interest divided by the weighted share capital.
average number of shares in issue during the period excluding own shares held.
Reversion is the estimated increase in rent at review where the gross rent is below the estimated rental value.
Estimated rental value ERV is the Groups external valuers opinion as to the open market rent which, on the date of valuation, Reversionary yield is the anticipated yield, which the initial yield could reasonably be expected to be obtained on a new letting or will rise to once the rent reaches the estimated rental value.
See through balance sheet is the pro forma proportionately Equivalent yield is a weighted average of the initial yield and consolidated balance sheet of the Group, its associates and reversionary yield and represents the return a property will produce joint ventures.
based upon the timing of the income received.
In accordance with usual practice, the equivalent yields as determined by the Groups Total return is the Groups total recognised gains and losses for external valuers assume rent received annually in arrears and on the period as set out in the statement of total recognised gains gross values including prospective purchasers cost.
ERV growth is the total growth in ERV on properties owned Total shareholder return is the growth in price per share plus throughout the year including growth due to development.
Gearing is the Groups net debt as a percentage of net assets.
UITF 28 Operating lease incentives debtors Under See through gearing includes our share of non-recourse net debt accounting rules the balance sheet value of lease incentives in the associates and joint ventures.
given to tenants is deducted from property valuation and shown as a debtor.
The incentive is amortised through the profit and loss Initial yield is the annualised net rents generated by the portfolio account.
expressed as a percentage of the portfolio valuation, excluding development properties.
Vacancy rate is the estimated rental value of vacant properties expressed as a percentage of the total estimated rental value IPD is Investment Property Databank Ltd, a company that produces of the portfolio, excluding development properties.
an independent benchmark of property returns.
Loan to value LTV is the ratio of debt to the value of the associated property.
