by fluctuations in the value of the functional currency as comOff-Balance Sheet Arrangements pared to the currency in which the shipbuilding contract is We are not a party to any off-balance sheet arrangements, denominated.
We generally use foreign currency swaps including guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interests, to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk from ship certain derivative instruments and variable interest entities, construction contracts see Notes 2, 7 and 11 in the accomthat either have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or panying financial statements.
Accordingly, increases and future material effect on our financial statements.
decreases in the fair value of these foreign currency swaps offset changes in the fair value of the foreign currency denomForeign Currency Exchange Rate Risks inated ship construction commitments, thus resulting in the In 2003, we broadened our global presence through elimination of such risk.
Carnival plcs foreign operations, in addition to the foreign Specifically, we have foreign currency swaps for three of currency denominated operations of our Costa subsidiary.
our euro denominated shipbuilding contracts.
At November 30, Specifically, our expanded international business operations 2005, the fair value of these foreign currency swaps was a through P&O Cruises, Ocean Village and Swan Hellenic in the net unrealized gain of $29 million which is recorded, along UK and AIDA in Germany subject us to an increasing level of with an offsetting $29 million fair value liability related to our foreign currency exchange risk related to the sterling and euro shipbuilding firm commitments, on our accompanying 2005 because these operations have either the sterling or the euro balance sheet.
Based upon a 10% strengthening or weakenas their functional currency.
Accordingly, exchange rate fluctuing of the U. S. dollar and sterling compared to the euro as of ations of the sterling and the euro against the dollar will affect November 30, 2005, assuming no changes in comparative our reported financial results since the reporting currency for interest rates, the estimated fair value of these foreign currency our consolidated financial statements is the U. S. dollar and swaps would decrease or increase by $120 million, which the functional currency for our international operations is would be offset by a decrease or increase of $120 million in generally the local currency.
Any weakening of the U. S. dollar the U. S. dollar value of the related foreign currency ship conagainst these local functional currencies has the financial struction commitments resulting in no net dollar impact to us.
statement effect of increasing the U. S. dollar values reported However, at November 30, 2005, as adjusted for our for cruise revenues and cruise expenses in our consolidated December 2005 ship orders, we have two euro denominated financial statements.
Strengthening of the U. S. dollar has the shipbuilding contracts aggregating 1.05 billion in euros assigned opposite effect.
to Carnival Cruise Lines, a U. S. dollar functional currency operWe seek to minimize the impact of fluctuations in foreign ation, for which we have not entered into any foreign currency currency exchange rates through our normal operating and swaps.
Therefore, the U. S. dollar cost of these ships will financing activities, including netting certain exposures to increase or decrease based upon changes in the exchange take advantage of any natural offsets and, when considered rate until the payments are made under the shipbuilding conappropriate, through the use of derivative financial instrutracts or we enter into a foreign currency swap.
The financial impacts of these hedging instruments commitments effectively act as an economic hedge against are generally offset by corresponding changes in the undera portion of our net investment in euro-denominated cruise lying exposures being hedged.
Our policy is to not use any operations.
Accordingly, any increase or decrease in our ship financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes.
costs resulting from changes in the exchange rate will be One of our primary foreign currency exchange rate risks offset by a corresponding change in the net assets of our is related to our outstanding commitments under ship coneuro-denominated cruise operations.
Based upon a 10% struction contracts denominated in a currency other than the hypothetical increase or decrease in the November 30, 2005 functional currency of the cruise brand that is expected to be U. S. dollar to euro foreign currency exchange rate, the cost operating the ship.
These currency commitments are affected of these ships would increase or decrease by $124 million.
