components, these assets estimated cost and accumulated Trademarks depreciation are written off.
The cost of developing and maintaining our trademarks We capitalize interest on ships and other capital projects have been expensed as incurred.
However, for acquisitions during their construction period.
made after June 2001 we have allocated a portion of the purchase price to the acquirees identified trademarks.
The Goodwill trademarks that Carnival Corporation recorded as part of its We review our goodwill for impairment annually, or, when acquisition of P&O Princess, which are estimated to have an events or circumstances dictate, more frequently.
All of our indefinite useful life and, therefore, are not amortizable, are goodwill has been allocated to our cruise reporting units.
reviewed for impairment annually, or more frequently when There were no significant changes to our goodwill carrying events or circumstances indicate that the trademark may be amounts since November 30, 2003, other than the changes impaired.
Our trademarks would be considered impaired if resulting from using different foreign currency translation their carrying value exceeds their fair value.
rates at each balance sheet date, except as noted below.
During 2004, we increased the fair values of the P&O Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities Princess publicly traded debt, and correspondingly, goodwill, We utilize derivative and nonderivative financial instruments, by $61 million to take into account the extension of Carnival such as foreign currency swaps and foreign currency obligaCorporations guarantee to cover this debt as of April 2003, tions, to limit our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency the acquisition date.
In addition, we reduced the fair value of exchange rates and interest rate swaps to manage our interest P&O Princess trademarks and, correspondingly increased rate exposure and to achieve a desired proportion of variable goodwill by $54 million to properly value our acquired tradeand fixed rate debt see Notes 6 and 11. marks as of the acquisition date.
The impact of these changes All derivatives are recorded at fair value, and the changes on our financial statements was immaterial.
in fair value must be immediately included in earnings if the Our goodwill impairment reviews consist of a two-step derivatives do not qualify as effective hedges.
If a derivative process of first determining the fair value of the reporting is a fair value hedge, then changes in the fair value of the unit and comparing it to the carrying value of the net assets derivative are offset against the changes in the fair value of allocated to the reporting unit.
Fair values of our reporting the underlying hedged item.
If a derivative is a cash flow hedge, units were determined based on our estimates of comparable then changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognized market price or discounted future cash flows.
If this fair value as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income exceeds the carrying value, which was the case for our AOCI until the underlying hedged item is recognized in reporting units, no further analysis or goodwill write-down earnings.
If a derivative or a nonderivative financial instrument is required.
If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than is designated as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign the carrying value of the net assets, the implied fair value of operation, then changes in the fair value of the financial instruthe reporting unit is allocated to all the underlying assets and ment are recognized as a component of AOCI to offset the liabilities, including both recognized and unrecognized tangible change in the translated value of the net investment being and intangible assets, based on their fair value.
If necessary, hedged, until the investment is liquidated.
We formally goodwill is then written-down to its implied fair value.
document all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as our risk management objectives and strategies for undertaking our hedge transactions.
