Fixed-rate interest payments represent cash outflows for fixed interest payments, including interest swapped from a variable-rate to a fixed-rate, but does not include interest payments on variablerate debt or interest swapped from a fixed-rate to a variable-rate.
Ship construction contracts entered into after November 30, 2005 aggregated $2.26 billion.
b Represents legally-binding commitments to purchase inventory and other goods and services made in the normal course of business to meet operational requirements.
Many of our contracts contain clauses that allow us to terminate the contract with notice, and with or without a termination penalty.
Termination penalties are generally an amount less than the original obligation.
Historically, we have not had any significant defaults of our contractual obligations or incurred significant penalties for termination of our contractual obligations.
c Represents cash outflows for certain of our long-term liabilities that could be reasonably estimated.
The primary outflows are for estimates of our employee benefit plan obligations, crew and passenger claims, certain deferred income taxes and other long-term liabilities.
Other long-term liabilities, such as deferred income, derivative contracts payable, which convert fixed rate debt to variable rate debt, fair value of hedged commitments and certain deferred income taxes, have been excluded from the table as they do not require cash settlement in the future or the timing of the cash outflow cannot be reasonably estimated.
d Foreign currency payments are based on the November 30, 2005 exchange rates.
During 2004, the Boards of Directors authorized the to fund most of our expected capital projects, debt service repurchase of up to an aggregate of $1 billion of Carnival requirements, dividend payments, working capital and other Corporation common stock and or Carnival plc ordinary shares firm commitments.
In addition, based on our future forecasted commencing in 2005, subject to certain repurchase restricoperating results and cash flows for fiscal 2006, we expect tions on Carnival plc shares.
From December 1, 2004 through to be in compliance with our debt covenants during 2006.
February 6, 2006, we had repurchased 8.0 million shares for However, our forecasted cash flow from future operations, $386 million.
as well as our credit ratings, may be adversely affected by At November 30, 2005, as adjusted for $916 million of various factors, including, but not limited to, those factors additional committed ship financing facilities entered into in noted under Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May January 2006, we had liquidity of $4.67 billion, which conAffect Future Results.
To the extent that we are required, or sisted of $1.19 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short-term choose, to fund future cash requirements, including our future investments, $1.83 billion available for borrowing under our shipbuilding commitments, from sources other than as disrevolving credit facility, and $1.65 billion under committed cussed above, we believe that we will be able to secure such ship financing facilities.
Our revolving credit facility matures financing from banks or through the offering of debt and or in 2010.
A key to our access to liquidity is the maintenance equity securities in the public or private markets.
No assurof our strong credit ratings.
ance can be given that our future operating cash flow will be Based primarily on our historical results, current financial sufficient to fund future obligations or that we will be able to condition and future forecasts, we believe that our existing obtain additional financing, if necessary.
liquidity and cash flow from future operations will be sufficient 42 Carnival Corporation & plc
