In connection with our cruise ships under contract for have meritorious defenses and we intend to vigorously defend construction listed above, we have paid $540 million through these lawsuits.
November 30, 2005 and anticipate paying the remaining estiIn March 2005, a lawsuit was filed against Carnival mated total costs as follows: $1.71 billion, $2.34 billion, $2.13 Corporation in the U. S. District Court for the Southern District billion and $1.41 billion in fiscal 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009, of Florida on behalf of some current and former crewmemrespectively.
bers alleging that Carnival Cruise Lines failed to pay the plaintiffs for overtime and minimum wages.
The suit seeks Operating Leases payment of i the wages alleged to be owed, ii damages Rent expense under our operating leases, primarily for under the Seamans Wage Act and iii interest.
On August 5, office and warehouse space, was $50 million in each of fiscal 2005, the court dismissed the lawsuit.
The plaintiffs filed an 2005 and 2004 and $48 million in fiscal 2003.
At November 30, appeal of their overtime claim to the Eleventh Circuit U. S. 2005, minimum annual rentals for our operating leases, with Court of Appeals on August 15, 2005, which is currently initial or remaining terms in excess of one year, were as follows pending, but have voluntarily dismissed their minimum wage in millions : $43, $30, $25, $20 and $16 and $66 in fiscal claim.
The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be deter- 2006 through 2010 and thereafter, respectively.
However, we believe we have meritorious Port Facilities and Other defenses and we intend to vigorously defend this lawsuit.
At November 30, 2005, we had commitments through In April 2003, Festival Crociere S. p. A.
Festival com- 2052, with initial or remaining terms in excess of one year, to menced an action against the European Commission the pay minimum amounts for our annual usage of port facilities Commission in the Court of First Instance of the Euroand other contractual commitments as follows in millions : pean Communities in Luxembourg seeking to annul the $58, $70, $70, $56, $52, and $294 in fiscal 2006 through Commissions antitrust approval of the DLC transaction the 2010 and thereafter, respectively.
We have been granted leave to intervene in the Festival Action and filed a Statement in Intervention Note 8Contingencies with the court.
Festival was declared bankrupt in May 2004 and Festival did not submit observations on our Statement in Litigation Intervention.
The oral hearing was scheduled to take place on In January 2006, a lawsuit was filed against Carnival December 15, 2005 but has been postponed while the Court Corporation and its subsidiaries and affiliates, and other seeks clarification of the status of the Festival Action with the non-affiliated cruise lines in the U. S. District Court for the Italian judge presiding over Festivals bankruptcy proceedSouthern District of New York on behalf of James Jacobs ings.
A successful third party challenge of an unconditional and a purported class of owners of intellectual property rights Commission clearance decision would be unprecedented, and to musical plays and other works performed in the U. S. The based on a review of the law and the factual circumstances plaintiffs claim infringement of copyrights to Broadway, off of the DLC transaction, as well as the Commissions approval Broadway and other plays.
The suit seeks payment of i damdecision in relation to the DLC transaction, we believe that the ages, ii disgorgement of alleged profits and iii an injunction Festival Action will not have a material adverse effect on the against future infringement.
The ultimate outcome of this companies or the DLC transaction.
However, the ultimate matter cannot be determined at this time.
We intend to vigoroutcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time.
In 2002 and 2004, three actions were filed against Carnival In November 2005, two separate lawsuits were filed Corporation on behalf of purported classes of persons who against Carnival Corporation and Princess Cruise Lines, Ltd. received unsolicited advertisements via facsimile, alleging that in the U. S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida Carnival Corporation and other defendants distributed unsolicon behalf of some current and former crewmembers alleging ited advertisements via facsimile in contravention of the U. S. that Carnival Cruise Lines and Princess failed to pay the plainTelephone Consumer Protection Act.
One of the actions filed tiffs for overtime.
These suits seek payment of i damages in 2002 has been settled for a nominal amount leaving two for breach of contract, ii damages under the Seamans Wage open actions collectively, the Facsimile Complaints.
The ultimate outcome of these matters plaintiffs seek to enjoin the sending of unsolicited facsimile cannot be determined at this time.
However, we believe we Carnival Corporation & plc 21 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued advertisements and statutory damages.
The advertisements Carnival Corporation obtained a direct guarantee from another referred to in the 2002 Facsimile Complaints that reference AA rated financial institution for $306 million of the above a Carnival Cruise Line product were not sent by Carnival noted contingent obligations, thereby further reducing the Corporation, but rather were distributed by a professional already remote exposure to this portion of the contingent oblifaxing company at the behest of third party travel agencies.
If the major financial institutions credit ratings fall The faxes involved in the 2004 case were sent to a travel below AA-, Carnival Corporation would be required to move agency with whom we had conducted business.
We do not a majority of the funds from these financial institutions to advertise directly to the traveling public through the use of other highly-rated financial institutions.
If Carnival Corporations facsimile transmission.
The ultimate outcomes of the Facsimile credit rating falls below BBB, it would be required to provide Complaints cannot be determined at this time.
However, we a standby letter of credit for $88 million, or alternatively probelieve that we have meritorious defenses and we intend to vide mortgages in the aggregate amount of $88 million on vigorously defend against these actions.
Costa instituted arbitration proceedings in Italy in 2000 to In the unlikely event that Carnival Corporation were to confirm the validity of its decision not to deliver its ship, the terminate the three lease agreements early or default on its Costa Classica, to the shipyard of Cammell Laird Holdings obligations, it would, as of November 30, 2005, have to pay a PLC Cammell Laird under a 79 million euro denominated total of $171 million in stipulated damages.
As of November 30, contract for the conversion and lengthening of the ship in 2005, $179 million of standby letters of credit have been November 2000.
Costa also gave notice of termination of the issued by a major financial institution in order to provide furcontract in January 2001.
It is expected that the arbitration ther security for the payment of these contingent stipulated tribunals decision will be made in 2007 at the earliest.
In addition, in 2004 Carnival Corporation entered event that an award is given in favor of Cammell Laird, the into a five year $170 million unsecured revolving credit facility, amount of damages, which Costa would have to pay, if any, guaranteed by Carnival plc, which is being used to support is not currently determinable.
The ultimate outcome of this these standby letters of credit through the issuance of a matter cannot be determined at this time.
In the event we were to default under In the normal course of our business, various other claims covenants in our loan agreements, any amounts outstanding and lawsuits have been filed or are pending against us.
Most under the $170 million unsecured revolving credit facility of these claims and lawsuits are covered by insurance and, would be due and payable, and we would be required to post accordingly, the maximum amount of our liability, net of any cash collateral to support the stipulated damages standby insurance recoverables, is typically limited to our self-insurance letters of credit in excess of $170 million.
However, the ultimate outcome of these and 2022, we have the right to exercise options that would claims and lawsuits which are not covered by insurance cannot terminate these transactions at no cost to us.
As a result of be determined at this time.
these three transactions, we have $40 million and $43 million of deferred income recorded on our balance sheets as of Contingent Obligations November 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively, which is being At November 30, 2005, Carnival Corporation had contingent amortized to nonoperating income through 2022. obligations totaling approximately $1.1 billion to participants Some of the debt agreements that we enter into include in lease out and lease back type transactions for three of its indemnification provisions that obligate us to make payments ships.
At the inception of the leases, the entire amount of the to the counterparty if certain events occur.
These contingencontingent obligations was paid by Carnival Corporation to cies generally relate to changes in taxes, changes in laws major financial institutions to enable them to directly pay these that increase lender capital costs and other similar costs.
Accordingly, these obligations were considered The indemnification clauses are often standard contractual extinguished, and neither the funds nor the contingent obligaterms and were entered into in the normal course of business.
tions have been included on our balance sheets.
Carnival There are no stated or notional amounts included in the Corporation would only be required to make any payments indemnification clauses and we are not able to estimate the under these contingent obligations in the remote event of maximum potential amount of future payments, if any, under nonperformance by these financial institutions, all of which these indemnification clauses.
We have not been required have long-term credit ratings of AA or higher.
In addition, 22 Carnival Corporation & plc
