Ship Accounting decrease in depreciation expense, as less costs would have Our most significant assets are our ships and ships under been initially capitalized to our ships.
Our fiscal 2005 ship construction, which represent 85% of our total assets.
We depreciation expense would have increased by approximately make several critical accounting estimates dealing with our $23 million for every year we reduced our estimated average ship accounting.
First, we compute our ships depreciation 30 year ship useful life.
In addition, if our ships were estimated expense, which represented 11% of our cruise operating to have no residual value, our fiscal 2005 depreciation expenses in fiscal 2005, which requires us to estimate the expense would have increased by approximately $120 million.
average useful life of each of our ships, as well as their residWe believe that the estimates we made for ship accountual values.
Secondly, we account for ship improvement costs ing purposes are reasonable and our methods are consistently by capitalizing those costs, that we believe will add value applied and, accordingly, result in depreciation expense that to our ships and depreciate those improvements over their is based on a rational and systematic method to equitably estimated useful lives, while expensing repairs and mainteallocate the costs of our ships to the periods during which finance costs as they are incurred.
Finally, when we record the services are obtained from their use.
In addition, we believe retirement of a ship component that is included within the that the estimates we made are reasonable and our methods ships cost basis, we estimate its net book value to determine consistently applied 1 in determining the average useful life the amount of ship component retired.
and average residual values of our ships: 2 in determining We determine the average useful life of our ships and which ship improvement costs add value to our ships: and their residual values based primarily on our estimates of the 3 in determining the net book value of ship component weighted-average useful lives and residual values of the ships assets being replaced or refurbished.
Finally, we believe our major component systems, such as cabins, main diesels, main critical ship accounting estimates are generally comparable electric, superstructure and hull.
In addition, we consider, with those of other major cruise companies.
among other things, long-term vacation market conditions Asset Impairment and competition and historical useful lives of similarly-built The impairment reviews of our ship, trademark assets and ships.
We have estimated our new ships average useful lives of our goodwill, which has been allocated to our cruise line at 30 years and their average residual values at 15% of our reporting units, require us to make significant estimates to original ship cost.
determine the fair values of these assets or reporting units.
Given the very large and complex nature of our ships, ship The determination of fair value includes numerous unceraccounting estimates require considerable judgment and are tainties, unless a viable actively traded market exists for the inherently uncertain.
We do not have cost segregation studies asset or for a comparable reporting unit, which is usually not performed to specifically componentize our ship systems.
the case for cruise ships, cruise lines and trademarks.
For In addition, since we do not separately componentize our example, in determining fair values of ships and cruise lines ships, we do not identify and track depreciation of specific utilizing discounted forecasted cash flows, significant judgcomponent systems.
Therefore, we have to estimate the net ments are made concerning, among other things, future net book value of components that are replaced or refurbished, revenue yields, net cruise costs per ALBD, interest and disbased primarily upon their replacement or refurbishment cost count rates, cruise itineraries, ship additions and retirements, and the age of the ship.
technological changes, consumer demand, governmental If materially different conditions existed, or if we materially regulations and the effects of competition.
In addition, third changed our assumptions of ship lives and residual values, our party appraisers are sometimes used to determine fair values depreciation expense or loss on replacement or refurbishment and some of their valuation methodologies are also subject of ship assets and net book value of our ships would be mateto similar types of uncertainties.
Also, the determination of rially different.
In addition, if we change our assumptions in fair values of reporting units using a price earnings multiple making our determinations as to whether improvements to a approach also requires significant judgments, such as detership add value, the amounts we expense each year as repair mining reasonably comparable multiples.
Finally, determining and maintenance costs could increase, partially offset by a Carnival Corporation & plc 35
