Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations continued Decisions regarding whether or not to hedge a given ship floating rate and fixed rate debt based on our view of interest commitment are made on a case-by-case basis, taking into rate movements through the use of interest rate swaps.
At consideration the amount and duration of the exposure, marNovember 30, 2005, 75% of the interest cost on our longket volatility, and economic trends.
term debt was effectively fixed and 25% was variable, includThe cost of shipbuilding orders that we may place in the ing the effect of our interest rate swaps.
future for our cruise lines who generate their cash flows Specifically, we have interest rate swaps at November 30, in a currency that is different than the shipyards operating 2005, which effectively changed $926 million of fixed rate currency, generally the euro, is expected to be affected by debt to libor-based floating rate debt.
In addition, we have foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
Given the decline interest rate swaps at November 30, 2005, which effectively in the U. S. dollar relative to the euro over the past several changed $961 million and $286 of euribor and GBP libor floatyears, the U. S. dollar cost to order new cruise ships at current ing rate debt, respectively, to fixed rate debt.
The fair value of exchange rates has increased significantly.
If the U. S. dollar our long-term debt and interest rate swaps at November 30, remains at current levels or declines further, this may affect 2005 was $7.70 billion.
Based upon a hypothetical 10% our ability to order future new cruise ships for U. S. dollar funcdecrease or increase in the November 30, 2005 market intertional currency brands.
est rates, the fair value of our long-term debt and interest rate Finally, we consider our investments in foreign subsidiaries swaps would increase or decrease by approximately $85 milto be denominated in relatively stable currencies and of a lion and interest expense on our variable rate debt, including long-term nature.
In addition to the strategy discussed above, the effect of our interest rate swaps, would increase or we also partially address these exposures by denominating a decrease by approximately $7 million.
portion of our debt, or entering into foreign currency swaps, In addition, based upon a hypothetical 10% decrease or in our subsidiaries functional currencies generally euros or increase in Carnival Corporations November 30, 2005 comsterling.
Specifically, we have debt of $1.68 billion in euros mon stock price, the fair value of our convertible notes would and $657 million in sterling and have $1.11 billion of foreign increase or decrease by approximately $197 million.
currency swaps, whereby we have converted $237 million of These hypothetical amounts are determined by considering U. S. dollar debt into sterling debt, $736 million of U. S. dollar the impact of the hypothetical interest rates and common debt into euro debt and $138 million of euro debt into sterling stock price on our existing long-term debt and interest rate debt, thus partially offsetting this foreign currency exchange swaps.
This analysis does not consider the effects of the rate risk.
At November 30, 2005, the fair value of these forchanges in the level of overall economic activity that could eign currency swaps was a net unrealized loss of $58 million, exist in such environments or any relationships which may which is recorded in AOCI and offsets a portion of the gains exist between interest rate and stock price movements.
recorded in AOCI upon translating these foreign subsidiaries Furthermore, since substantially all of our fixed rate long-term net assets into U. S. dollars.
Based upon a 10% hypothetical debt cannot currently be called or prepaid and $1.25 billion increase or decrease in the November 30, 2005 foreign curof our variable rate long-term debt is subject to interest rate rency exchange rate, we estimate that these contracts fair swaps which effectively fix the interest rate, it is unlikely we values would increase or decrease by $111 million, which would be able to take any significant steps in the short-term would be offset by a decrease or increase of $111 million in to mitigate our exposure in the unlikely event of a significant the U. S. dollar value of our net investments.
decrease in market interest rates.
Interest Rate Risks Bunker Fuel Price Risks We seek to minimize the impact of fluctuations in interest We have typically not used financial instruments to hedge rates through our long-term investment and debt portfolio our exposure to the bunker fuel price market risk.
We estimate strategies, which include entering into a substantial amount that our fiscal 2006 fuel cost would increase or decrease by of fixed rate debt instruments.
We continuously evaluate our approximately $2.9 million for each $1 per metric ton increase debt portfolio, and make periodic adjustments to the mix of or decrease in our average bunker fuel price.
