Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued We classify the fair value of our derivative contracts and utilized.
Revenues and expenses from our tour and travel serthe fair value of our offsetting hedged firm commitments as vices are recognized at the time the services are performed either current or long-term, which are included in prepaid and or expenses are incurred.
other assets and accrued and other liabilities, depending on Insurance Self-Insurance whether the maturity date of the derivative contract is within We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance or beyond one year from our balance sheet dates.
The cash for a number of risks including claims related to crew and flows from derivatives treated as hedges are classified in our passengers, hull and machinery, war risk, workers compenstatements of cash flows in the same category as the item sation and general liability.
Liabilities associated with these being hedged.
risks, including estimates for crew and passenger claims, are During fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, all net changes in the estimated based on, among other things, historical claims fair value of both our fair value hedges and the offsetting experience, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions.
hedged firm commitments and our cash flow hedges were Our expected loss accruals are based on estimates, and while immaterial, as were any ineffective portions of these hedges.
we believe the amounts accrued are adequate, the ultimate No fair value hedges or cash flow hedges were derecognized loss may differ from the amounts provided.
or discontinued in fiscal 2005, 2004 or 2003.
In addition, the Advertising Costs amount of realized net losses or gains from cash flow hedges Advertising costs are charged to expense as incurred that were reclassified into earnings during fiscal 2005, 2004 except for brochures and media production costs.
The broand 2003 was not significant.
The amount of estimated cash chures and media production costs are recorded as prepaid flow hedges unrealized net losses which are expected to be expenses and charged to expense as consumed or upon the reclassified to earnings in the next twelve months is approxifirst airing of the advertisement, respectively.
expenses totaled $455 million, $464 million and $335 million Finally, if any shipyard with which we have contracts to in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
At November 30, build our ships is unable to perform, we would be required 2005 and 2004, the amount of advertising costs included in to perform under our foreign currency swaps related to these prepaid expenses was not significant.
Accordingly, based upon the circumstances, we may have to discontinue the accounting for those Foreign Currency Translations and Transactions currency swaps as hedges, if the shipyard cannot perform.
For our foreign subsidiaries and affiliates using the local However, we believe that the risk of shipyard nonperforcurrency as their functional currency, assets and liabilities are mance is remote.
translated at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet dates.
Revenues and expenses of these foreign subsidiaries Revenue and Expense Recognition and affiliates are translated at weighted-average exchange Guest cruise deposits represent unearned revenues and rates for the period.
Equity is translated at historical rates, are initially recorded as customer deposit liabilities when and the resulting cumulative foreign currency translation received.
Customer deposits are subsequently recognized as adjustments resulting from this process are included as a cruise revenues, together with revenues from onboard and component of AOCI.
Therefore, the U. S. dollar value of these other activities and all associated direct costs of a voyage, items in our financial statements fluctuates from period to upon completion of voyages with durations of ten nights or period, depending on the value of the dollar against these less and on a pro rata basis for voyages in excess of ten nights.
Future travel discount vouchers issued to guests are typically recorded as a reduction of revenues when such vouchers are 12 Carnival Corporation & plc
