Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Property and Equipment Note 2 Summary of Significant Property and equipment are stated at cost.
Depreciation Accounting Policies and amortization were computed using the straight-line method Basis of Presentation over our estimates of average useful lives and residual values, We consolidate entities over which we have control see as a percentage of original cost, as follows: Note 3, as typically evidenced by a direct ownership interest Residual of greater than 50%.
For affiliates where significant influence Values Years over financial and operating policies exists, as typically eviShips.......................... 15% 30 denced by a direct ownership interest from 20% to 50%, the Ship improvements............... 0% or 15% 2 to remaining investment is accounted for using the equity method.
life of ship Buildings and improvements....... 010% 5-40 Cash and Cash Equivalents and Transportation equipment Short-Term Investments and other..................... 025% 220 Cash and cash equivalents include investments with original Leasehold improvements, maturities of three months or less, which are stated at cost.
including port facilities..........
Shorter of At November 30, 2005 and 2004, cash and cash equivalents lease term included $980 million and $495 million of investments, respecor related tively, primarily comprised of time deposits, investment grade asset life asset-backed debt obligations, commercial paper and money We review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever market funds.
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying Substantially all of our short-term investments, which amount of these assets may not be fully recoverable.
The consist of investments with original maturities greater than assessment of possible impairment is based on our ability to three months, are comprised of investment grade variable recover the carrying value of our asset based on our estimate rate debt obligations, which are asset-backed and categorized of its undiscounted future cash flows.
If these estimated as available-for-sale.
Our investments in these securities are undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying recorded at cost, which approximates their fair value due to value of the asset, an impairment charge is recognized for the these investments having variable interest rates, which typiexcess, if any, of the assets carrying value over its estimated cally reset every 28 days.
Despite the long-term nature of their fair value.
stated contractual maturities, we have the ability to quickly Dry-dock costs primarily represent planned major mainteliquidate these securities.
As a result of the resetting variable finance activities that are incurred when a ship is taken out of rates, at November 30, 2005 and 2004 we had no cumulative service for scheduled maintenance.
These costs are included gross unrealized or realized holding gains or losses from these in prepaid expenses and are amortized to other ship operating investments.
All income generated from these investments expenses using the straight-line method generally over one was recorded as interest income.
Inventories Ship improvement costs that we believe add value to our Inventories consist of provisions, gift shop and art merchanships are capitalized to the ships, and depreciated over the dise held for resale, fuel and supplies carried at the lower of improvements estimated useful lives, while costs of repairs cost or market.
Cost is determined using the weighted-average and maintenance are charged to expense as incurred.
Upon or first-in, first-out methods.
replacement or refurbishment of previously capitalized ship 10 Carnival Corporation & plc
