Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued As recommended by SFAS No.
123, the fair value of options Concentrations of Credit Risk were estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
As part of our ongoing control procedures, we monitor The Black-Scholes option-pricing model was developed for concentrations of credit risk associated with financial and use in estimating the fair value of traded options that have other institutions with which we conduct significant business.
no vesting or trading restrictions and are fully transferable.
Credit risk, including counterparty nonperformance under In addition, option-pricing models require the input of subjecderivative instruments, contingent obligations and new ship tive assumptions, including expected stock price volatility progress payment guarantees, is considered minimal, as we and dividend yields.
Because our options have characteristics primarily conduct business with large, well-established finandifferent from those of traded options and because changes cial institutions who have long-term credit ratings of A or in the subjective assumptions can materially affect our estiabove and we seek to diversify our counterparties.
In addition, mate of the fair value of stock options, we believe that the we have established guidelines regarding credit ratings and existing valuation models, including Black-Scholes, do not investment maturities that we follow to maintain safety and necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value liquidity.
We do not anticipate nonperformance by any of our of our options.
Since 2004, we have continued to refine our significant counterparties.
Black-Scholes estimates and assumptions based upon more We also monitor the creditworthiness of our customers in-depth reviews of the underlying information in order to to which we grant credit terms in the normal course of our more accurately value our options.
The impact of such changes business.
Concentrations of credit risk associated with these has generally been to reduce the estimated fair value of our receivables are considered minimal primarily due to their short option awards.
The Black-Scholes weighted-average assumpmaturities and the large number of accounts within our custions were as follows: tomer base.
We have experienced only minimal credit losses Years ended on our trade receivables.
We do not normally require collateral November 30, or other security to support normal credit sales.
However, we 2005 2004 2003 do normally require collateral and or guarantees to support Fair value of options at the notes receivable on significant asset sales and new ship progdates of grant................. $12.99 $15.87 $13.33 ress payments to shipyards.
Risk free interest rate............. 4.1% 3.4% 3.5% Reclassifications Expected dividend yield........... 1.90% 1.36% 1.30% Reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts to conform to the current year presentation.
a Expected volatility.............. 27.0% 35.0% 48.7% Expected option life in years...... 4.74 5.75 6.00 Note 3DLC Transaction a In 2003, our volatility assumption was based on the historical volatility of On April 17, 2003, Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc Carnival Corporation common stock.
Subsequent to 2003, we also considered the implied volatilities derived from our exchange traded options and completed a DLC transaction, which implemented Carnival convertible notes in determining our expected volatility assumption since Corporation & plcs DLC structure.
The contracts governing we believe these implied market volatilities should be considered in estimating our expected future volatilities.
the DLC structure provide that Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc each continue to have separate boards of direcIn December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards tors, but the boards and senior executive management of Board FASB issued SFAS No.
123 R, which will require both companies are identical.
The amendments to the conus to recognize compensation costs in our financial statements stituent documents of each of the companies also provide in an amount equal to the fair value of share-based payments that, on most matters, the holders of the common equity of granted to employees and directors over the corresponding both companies effectively vote as a single body.
On speciservice period, and also requires an estimation of forfeitures fied matters where the interests of Carnival Corporations when calculating compensation expense, instead of accountshareholders may differ from the interests of Carnival plcs ing for forfeitures as incurred, which is our current method.
shareholders a class rights action, each shareholder body This statement is effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal will vote separately as a class, such as transactions primarily 2006 and is expected to increase our full year 2006 sharedesigned to amend or unwind the DLC structure.
Generally, based compensation expense by approximately $55 million no class rights action will be implemented unless approved compared to 2005.
We have not yet determined which of the by both shareholder bodies.
two alternative transition methods we will use upon adoption of this new statement.
