Notes to the financial statements 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies preparing their accounts under IFRS.
This is the first time the company has prepared its financial statements in accordance with IFRS, having previously prepared its financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
Details of how the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS has affected the groups reported financial position and performance and the companys financial position are given on pages 63 to 68.
In preparing these results, certain of the exemptions allowed by IFRS1, First-time Adoption of IFRS, have been taken.
These are: The comparative year has not been restated for IAS39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, in respect of derivative financial instruments.
The fair value of these instruments at the start of 2005 was passed through reserves, and the subsequent movement for 2005 is reported in the group income statement.
The group has not applied the hedge accounting treatment that would allow such movements to be deferred in equity.
IFRS2, Share-based Payment, has not been applied to share options granted on or before 7th November 2002.
The principal accounting policies are described below.
Basis of consolidation The group financial statements incorporate the financial statements of Derwent Valley Holdings plc and all of its subsidiaries, together with the groups share of the results of its joint ventures.
Revenue i Rental income Rental income arises from operating leases granted to tenants.
An operating lease is a lease other than a finance lease.
A finance lease is one whereby substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are passed to the lessee.
Rental income is recognised in the group income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
This includes the effect of lease incentives to tenants, which are normally in the form of rent free periods or capital contributions in lieu of rent free periods.
For income from property leased out under a finance lease, a lease receivable asset is recognised in the balance sheet at an amount equal to the net investment in the lease, as dened in IAS17, Leases.
Minimum lease payments receivable, again dened in IAS17, are apportioned between finance income and the reduction of the outstanding lease receivable so as to produce a constant periodic rate of return on the remaining net investment in the lease.
Contingent rents, being the difference between the rent currently receivable and the minimum lease payments when the net investment in the lease was originally calculated, are recognised in property income in the years in which they are receivable.
ii Reverse surrender premiums Payments received from tenants to surrender their lease obligations are recognised immediately in the group income statement.
iii Dilapidations Dilapidations monies received from tenants in respect of their lease obligations are recognised immediately in the group income statement.
Expenses i Lease payments Where investment properties are held under operating leases, the leasehold interest is classied as if it were held under a finance lease, which is recognised at its fair value on the balance sheet, within the investment property carrying value.
Upon initial recognition, a corresponding liability is included as a finance lease liability.
Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining finance lease liability.
Contingent rents payable, being the difference between the rent currently payable and the minimum lease payments when the lease liability was originally calculated, are charged as expenses within property expenditure in the years in which they are payable.
ii Other property expenditure Vacant property costs and other property costs are expensed in the year to which they relate.
28 Derwent Valley Holdings plc Report & Accounts 2005
