Reconciliation of IFRS to UK GAAP for the year ended 31st December 2004 Introduction The results for the year ended 31st December 2005 are the first full year accounts to be prepared under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
From 1st January 2005, all companies whose securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market in any European Union member state were required to adopt this basis of accounting.
The subsequent pages detail the individual differences in accounting treatment as compared to the previous UK GAAP basis of accounting and how this affects the group income statement formerly the group profit and loss account and group and company balance sheets for the restated comparative results for the year ended 31st December 2004.
Key changes The main differences to UK GAAP are listed below.
The adjustment numbers refer to the reconciliations on the following pages.
Revaluation surplus on investment properties is reported in the group income statement.
Previously, this was reported as a movement on the revaluation reserve.
Development properties within the investment property portfolio are revalued.
Previously, applying the group accounting policy under UK GAAP, such properties were carried at their last valuation prior to being designated as a development property, plus subsequent costs and were revalued again on practical completion.
Deferred tax on the revaluation surplus and the tax on the realisation of gains on property disposals are reported as part of the tax charge.
Previously, these amounts were disclosed in the notes, adjustment 2, and in the statement of recognised gains and losses STRGL, adjustment 10, respectively.
Headlease liabilities are capitalised and included within financial liabilities, and the carrying value of leasehold investment properties is grossed up.
Previously, leasehold investment properties were reported net of the leasehold liability.
Certain costs and income relating to the groups investment properties are taken directly to the income statement.
These are letting fees on development properties, adjustment 7, which were previously capitalised and dilapidations, adjustment 6, and insurance receipts, adjustment 4, which were deferred into a future period to set against subsequent expenditure.
Lease incentives are amortised over the term of the lease.
Previously, these incentives were amortised generally to the first rent review.
Derivative financial instruments are required to be carried at fair value, and movements in fair value over time are reported in the group income statement, unless an effective hedging relationship existed, in which case the movement will be carried in equity, i. e. as a movement in other reserves.
Hedge accounting has not been applied and all fair value movements are reported in the group income statement.
Previously, the fair value of such derivatives was disclosed in the notes.
Dividends not declared by the end of an accounting period are excluded from the results.
Previously, dividends in respect of the results for the period, which were not declared by the end of that accounting period, were included as a deduction from profit.
The following pages show the reconciliation of both the group income statement previously the group profit and loss account and the group and company balance sheets between IFRS and UK GAAP, together with the consequent impact of adjusted profit and adjusted net assets.
Derwent Valley Holdings plc Report & Accounts 2005 63
