Notice of annual general meeting Notice is hereby given that the twenty-second annual general meeting of Derwent Valley Holdings plc will be held at The Westbury Hotel, Bond Street, London, W1A 4UH on 23rd May 2006 at 10.30am for the following purposes: Ordinary business 1 To receive the report of the directors and the accounts for the year ended 31st December 2005 and the independent auditors report thereon: 2 To declare a final dividend of 9.725p per ordinary share for the year ended 31st December 2005: 3 To approve the report of the remuneration committee for the year ended 31st December 2005: 4 To re-elect Mr J. C. Ivey as a director: 5 To re-elect Mr J. D. Burns as a director: 6 To re-elect Mr R. A. Farnes as a director: 7 To re-appoint BDO Stoy Hayward LLP as auditor of the company to hold ofce from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the company and to authorise the directors to determine its remuneration.
Special business To consider and, if thought t, pass the following resolutions, resolution 8, as an ordinary resolution and resolutions 9 and 10 as special resolutions.
8 That the directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all the powers of the company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 891,208.20 provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the company after the passing of this resolution except that the company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired: 9 That the directors be and they are hereby empowered, pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985, to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the said Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred upon them by the previous resolution and or where such allotment constitutes an allotment of equity securities by virtue of Section 94 3A of the said Act as if Section 89 1 of the said Act did not apply to such allotment, provided that the power conferred by this resolution shall be limited to: i the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue, open offer or any other pre-emptive offer in favour of ordinary shareholders excluding any shareholder holding shares as treasury shares where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of such ordinary shareholders on a xed record date are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may consider necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal or practical difficulties arising in any overseas territory, or by virtue of the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter whatsoever: and ii the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 133,681.20, and shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the company after the passing of this resolution except that the company may before the expiry of the power conferred by this resolution make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired: and 70 Derwent Valley Holdings plc Report & Accounts 2005 Notice of annual general meeting 10 That the company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 5p each in the capital of the company provided that: i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 5,347,249: ii the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for any such ordinary share is 5p: iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses at which any such ordinary share may be purchased is the higher of i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market prices shown in the quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is contracted to be purchased and ii the price stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation EC No.
2273 2003 : and iv the authority to purchase hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the company after the passing of this resolution save that the company may before such expiry enter into a contract of purchase under which such purchase may be completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of this authority and a purchase of shares may be made in pursuance of any such contract.
By order of the board T. J. Kite, ACA 25 Savile Row Secretary London 20th April 2006 W1S 2ER Notes: Entitlement to attend and vote The company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001, species that only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the company as at 6pm on 21st May 2006 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the annual general meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register of securities after 6pm on 21st May 2006 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Every member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him.
The proxy need not himself be a member.
A form of appointment of a proxy is enclosed.
Appointment of proxies through CREST CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the annual general meeting to be held on 23rd May 2006 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments, being 10.30am on 21st May 2006.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001.
Documents available for inspection Copies of the contracts of service relating to Messrs J. D. Burns, S. P. Silver, C. J. Odom, N. Q. George and P. M. Williams, and the terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors, will be available for inspection by members at the companys registered ofce during usual business hours on any weekday public holidays excluded from the date of this notice until the time of the annual general meeting and also at The Westbury Hotel during the annual general meeting and for at least fifteen minutes prior to the meeting.
The register of the directors and their families interests in the ordinary shares of the company will also be available for inspection at The Westbury Hotel during the fifteen minutes prior to the meeting and throughout the meeting.
Derwent Valley Holdings plc Report & Accounts 2005 71
