Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the forty-eighth Annual General Meeting of Great Portland Estates plc will be held at Le Mridien, 21 Piccadilly, London W. 1. on Friday, 8 July 2005 at 11.30am, for the purposes set out below, with the Board available from 11.00am to meet shareholders and answer questions: 1 To receive and adopt the accounts for the year ended 31 March 2005.
2 To authorise the payment of a final dividend.
3 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report.
4 To re-elect Richard Peskin as a director of the Company.
5 To re-elect Robert Noel as a director of the Company.
6 To re-elect Kathleen ODonovan as a director of the Company.
7 To reappoint Phillip Rose as a director of the Company.
8 To reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors.
9 To authorise the directors to agree the remuneration of the auditors.
As special business, to consider and, if thought t, to pass the following Resolutions which will be proposed as to that numbered 10 as an Ordinary Resolution, and those numbered 11 and 12 as Special Resolutions.
Ordinary Resolution 10 That the directors be and are hereby authorised pursuant to and in accordance with Section 80 of the Act to exercise all powers of the Company to allot and to make offers or agreements to allot relevant securities as defined in Section 80 2 of the Act up to an aggregate nominal value of 6,763,014 provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this Resolution or on 7 October 2006, whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
Special Resolutions 11 That subject to Resolution 9 being passed, the directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Act to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 of the Act for cash as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited: a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue or other pre-emptive issue in favour of shareholders notwithstanding that by reason of such exclusions as the directors may deem necessary to deal with problems arising in any overseas territory, in connection with fractional entitlements or otherwise howsoever the equity securities to be issued are not offered to all of such persons in proportion to the number of shares held by each of them : and b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to subparagraph a above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,015,468, and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this Resolution or on 7 October 2006, whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
66 GREAT PORTLAND ESTATES Annual Report 2005 12 That the Company be and it is hereby authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act of its shares upon or subject to the following conditions: a the maximum number of shares which may be purchased is 24,354,974: b the maximum price at which shares may be purchased shall be 5% above the average of the middle market quotations for the shares as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days preceding the date of purchase and 1 the minimum price shall be 12 2p, being the nominal value of the shares, in both cases exclusive of expenses: and c the authority to purchase conferred by this Resolution shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this Resolution or 7 October 2006 whichever is the earlier save that the Company may before such expiry enter into a contract of purchase under which such purchase may be completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of this authority.
Registered Ofce: 56 Mortimer Street London W1W 7RT By order of the Board Desna Martin Secretary 3 June 2005 Notes 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint a proxy who need not be a member of the Company to attend and, on a poll, to vote in his place.
In order to be valid an appointment of proxy must be returned by one of the following methods: in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the Companys Registrar at the address shown on the form of proxy: or in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out below and in each case must be received by the Company not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
2 a CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
b In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID: RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
c The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. d CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
3 The Company pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001 species that only those shareholders registered in the Register of Members of the Company as at 6.00pm on Wednesday 6 July 2005 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time and changes to the Register after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
GREAT PORTLAND ESTATES ANNUAL REPORT 2005 67
