Accounting Policies Pensions General information The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution These financial statements are the consolidated financial statements of schemes.
Cobham plc, a public limited company registered and domiciled in the United Kingdom and its subsidiaries the Group.
The address of the For defined benefit schemes the amounts charged to operating profit are the registered office is Brook Road, Wimborne, Dorset, England BH21 2BJ.
Gains and losses on settlements and curtailments are included in operating profit or the profit on disposal as appropriate.
Past Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement if the with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted in benefits have vested.
If the benefits have not vested immediately, the costs the EU, International Financial Reporting Interpretation Council IFRIC are recognised over the period until vesting occurs.
The interest cost and interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to expected return on assets are shown within finance income and expense.
Disclosures required by IFRS 1 concerning Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS are given in Note 40.
The December recognised income and expenses.
2004 amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits have been adopted early.
Certain provisions of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Other than the mainland European schemes, defined benefit schemes are Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and funded, with the assets of the scheme held separately from those of the Measurement have been adopted from 1 January 2005.
Group, in separate trustee administered funds.
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using These financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost the projected unit method and discounted at a rate equivalent to the current convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain current assets and rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and derivative contracts which are held at fair value.
term to the scheme liabilities.
The actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date.
The resulting The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally defined benefit asset or liability, is presented separately on the face of the accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and balance sheet.
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and For defined contribution schemes the amounts charged to the income expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on statement in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement benefits are managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual the contributions payable in the year.
Differences between contributions results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
payable in the year and contributions actually paid are recorded as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
The principal accounting policies, which have been consistently applied unless otherwise stated, are as set out below.
The Group has elected to adopt the December 2004 amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits early.
In particular, the Group has adopted a policy of Basis of consolidation recognising all actuarial gains and losses for all of its defined benefit plans in The Group financial statements include the financial statements of the the period in which they occur, outside the income statement, in the parent company and of all its subsidiaries made up to the end of the statement of recognised income and expense.
Joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method and include the Groups share of the total recognised Taxation including deferred taxation gains and losses of joint ventures and associates from the date that The tax expense relates to the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
significant influence or joint control commences until the date significant influence ceases.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year, which differs from profit before taxation as reported in the income statement.
Taxable profit excludes Businesses acquired are accounted for as acquisitions, with effect from the items of income and expense that are taxable in or deductible in other years date control passes.
Those disposed of are accounted for up until control and also excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups passes at the point of their disposal.
The results of businesses disposed of, liability for current tax is calculated using rates that have been enacted or and of those classified as held for sale at the year end are disclosed as arising substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method in All intra-group transactions balances, income and expenses are eliminated respect of temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and on consolidation.
liabilities and their carrying values in the consolidated financial statements.
Revenue recognition Temporary differences arise primarily from the recognition of the provision Revenue is measured at the fair value of the right to consideration and is for the deficit on the Groups defined benefit pension schemes and the generally recognised when goods are despatched or services delivered and difference between accelerated capital allowances and depreciation.
In excludes inter-company sales, value added tax and other sales taxes.
In the principle, deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary case of long-term contracts, revenue is recognised based upon the fair value differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is of work performed to date assessed with reference to contract milestones.
probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered.
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 37 Accounting Policies continued patents.
The only internally generated intangible fixed assets are Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the development costs which are capitalised as described above.
period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Tax is charged or credited to the income statement except when the item on which the tax is Intangible assets are amortised over the assets estimated useful life on a charged is credited or charged directly to equity, in which case the deferred straight line basis as follows: tax is also dealt with in equity.
Customer lists 2 to 15 years Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to enforce current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the Technology and software 2 to 10 years deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
Development costs 2 to 10 years Other intangible fixed assets 6 months to 10 years Dividends Property, plant and equipment Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are fully authorised.
Freehold land is not depreciated, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Share based remuneration For grants made under the Groups share based remuneration schemes, Freehold buildings, plant and equipment are held at cost less accumulated amounts which reflect the fair value of options awarded as at the time of deprecation and any recognised impairment losses.
Carrying values are grant are charged to the income statement.
The valuation of the options reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate utilises a methodology based on the Black-Scholes model, modified where that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
An assets carrying amount required to allow for the impact of market related performance criteria.
is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments in respect of equity settled awards and has applied All fixed assets other than land are depreciated on a straight-line basis to IFRS 2 only to equity settled awards granted after 7 November 2002. their estimated residual values over their estimated useful lives.
These lives are as follows: Intangible fixed assets Goodwill Freehold buildings 50 years Purchased goodwill and goodwill arising on consolidation represents the Leasehold properties The period of the lease excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value Plant and equipment of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary or joint venture at and other fixed assets 3 to 15 years the date of acquisition.
Estimated residual values and the estimated useful lives are reviewed Goodwill arising on overseas acquisitions is treated as a foreign currency annually and adjusted where necessary.
asset and revalued at the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences arising are taken to the translation reserve and recycled to the income Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful statement when the related subsidiary is sold.
Goodwill arising on lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of the acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at relevant lease.
the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying Goodwill arising on acquisitions of subsidiary undertakings and joint amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
ventures is capitalised and reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement Investment properties and cannot be subsequently reversed.
Investment property, which is property held to earn rentals and or for capital appreciation, is stated at cost at the balance sheet date.
It is depreciated on a On disposal of a subsidiary or joint venture, the attributable amount of straight-line basis to its estimated residual value over its estimated useful life goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
On transition to IFRS, investment properties have been valued using the deemed cost model.
Research and development Research expenditure not chargeable to customers is written off as incurred.
Aircraft overhaul expenditure Development costs not chargeable to customers are written off as incurred Major overhaul expenditure on owned aircraft is capitalised when incurred until it can be demonstrated that the conditions for capitalisation as and the resultant fixed asset depreciated over its useful economic life.
described in IAS 38 Intangible Assets are met, at which point further costs Major overhaul costs that are contractually required on aircraft held under are capitalised as intangible assets up until the intangible asset is readily operating leases are accrued over the period between the scheduled available for production and amortised on a straight-line basis over the maintenance events.
Non-current assets held for sale Other intangible fixed assets Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are Intangible assets other than goodwill which are acquired by the Group are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
These These items are so classified if their carrying amount will be recovered include customer lists, technology and software, trademarks, licences and 38 Cobham plc liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease through a sale transaction within 12 months of the balance sheet date rather obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and than through continuing use.
reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly Inventories against income.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straightthose overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Cost is calculated using the first-in, first-out method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Payments received and receivable on account of work in progress are deducted from the cost of work carried out at the balance sheet date to the extent of the valuation of the work done.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative Financial instruments contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the the instrument.
When a financial asset or liability is recognised initially, it is measured at its The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset or financial liability not at fair foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group uses foreign value through profit and loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable exchange forward contracts, interest rate swap contracts and net investment to the acquisition or issue of the financial asset or financial liability.
hedges to reduce these exposures.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk irrecoverable amounts.
management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge Financial liabilities and equity instruments inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives used in Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity or cash flows of hedged items.
instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Fair value hedges Changes in fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair Bank borrowings value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the amount changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including to the hedged risk.
The gains or losses relating to interest rate swaps hedging premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, fixed rate borrowings are recognised in the income statement.
are accounted for on an accruals basis to the income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the effective in which they arise.
interest method is used is amortised to the income statement over the period to maturity.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with an Cash flow hedge original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable The effective portion of changes in fair value of derivatives that are on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity.
The gain included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the consolidated cash flow statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the income statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Leasing Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing Leases include hire purchase contracts which have characteristics similar to in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast operating or finance leases.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at recognised in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement for their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease the period.
payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding Annual Report & Accounts 2005 39 Accounting Policies continued The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in Net investment hedges use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity: the gain or asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
An impairment loss is recognised where the carrying value of an asset is less Gains or losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement than its recoverable amount.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life when the foreign operation is disposed of.
is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Any impairment losses are recognised in the income statement unless the asset is recorded at a revalued amount in Foreign currencies which case it is treated as a revaluation decrease.
The functional currency of the parent company is sterling.
Most Group companies use their local currency as their functional currency.
Local transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are translated An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been and liabilities denoted in non-functional currencies are retranslated at the determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date and any exchange differences been recognised.
A reversal is recognised in the income statement unless the arising are taken to the income statement.
asset is recorded at a revalued amount in which case it is treated as a revaluation increase.
In order to manage its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks the Group enters into forward contracts and options which are accounted for as Share capital derivative financial instruments.
Preference share capital is classified as a liability if it is redeemable on a specific date or at the option of the preference shareholders or if The Group has determined that the portfolio hedging mechanism that it dividend payments are not discretionary.
Dividends on preference share utilises to cover its forward currency exposures is the most appropriate capital classified as liabilities are recognised in the income statement commercial response to the nature of the risks faced.
The Group manages as interest expense.
foreign currency exposures on a macro basis and has chosen not to apply hedge accounting for its future foreign exchange transactions under IAS 39.
Segment accounting policies As required by the Standard, these instruments are recorded on the balance For reporting purposes the results of the Group are allocated between sheet at fair value on transition and movements in fair value recorded three reporting divisions.
These operate in specific market areas and are as through the income statement.
The Group accounting policies as described above are applied consistently across the three divisions.
Head office costs associated For consolidation purposes the assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiary with Group operations are included within the Aerospace Systems division, undertakings and joint ventures are translated at the closing exchange rates.
with the exception of bid costs associated with the Future Strategic Tanker Income statements of such undertakings are consolidated at the average Aircraft FSTA project and losses associated with the revaluation of currency rates of exchange during the year.
Exchange differences arising on these instruments, which have been shown separately in the Groups segmental translations are taken to reserves.
Trading between Group companies is contracted and priced at arms length commercial terms.
Provisions A provision is required when the Group has a present legal or constructive Critical accounting estimates and judgements obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that settlement will Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on be required of an amount that can be reliably estimated.
historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Provisions for warranty costs are recognised at the date of sale of the relevant products, at the directors best estimate of the expenditure required Management judgement to settle the Groups liability.
In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, management has made a number of judgements, none of which are considered to have a Provisions for onerous contracts are recognised when the expected benefits significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
Estimation uncertainty The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future and the Provisions for contingent consideration are recognised when it is considered resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related probable that the conditions attaching to potential payment will be met.
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a Long-term liabilities and provisions are discounted when the impact is material.
significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the next financial year are as follows: Impairment losses The carrying amounts of the Groups assets are reviewed at least annually to Impairment of goodwill determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such The Group determines whether Goodwill is impaired at least on an annual indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
This requires estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units 40 Cobham plc IFRS 7 and this amendment to IAS 1 introduce new disclosures of to which the goodwill is allocated.
Estimating the value in use requires the information about financial instruments and capital management.
The Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash impact of these changes to the Group is that additional disclosures will be generating units and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to required concerning the sensitivity analysis to market risk and the calculate the present value of those cash flows.
The carrying amount of management of capital.
These will be applied for the year ended 31 goodwill at 31 December 2005 was 424.0m 2004: 380.6m, further December 2007. details are given in Note 13.
Taxation IFRIC 4, Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease effective The Group is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant from 1 January 2006. judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for tax.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax IFRIC 4 requires the determination of whether an arrangement is or determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The Group contains a lease to be based on the substance of the arrangement.
recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of Management is currently assessing the impact of IFRIC 4 on the whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these Groups operations.
matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current tax provision, deferred tax provisions IFRIC 5, Rights to Interests Arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and income statement in the period in which such determination is made.
and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds effective from 1 January 2006.
Accounting standards not yet effective IFRIC 5 is not relevant to the Groups operations.
Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published that are mandatory for the Groups IFRIC 6, Liabilities Arising from Participating in a Specific Market accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006 or later periods Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment effective from but which the Group has not adopted early, are as follows: 1 December 2005.
IAS 39 Amendment, Cash Flow Hedge Accounting of Forecast Management is currently assessing the impact of IFRIC 6 on the Intra-group Transactions effective from 1 January 2006.
The amendment relates to the application of hedge accounting rules to highly probable forecast intra-group transactions.
This amendment is not considered relevant to the Groups operations.
IAS 39 Amendment, The Fair Value Option effective from 1 January 2006.
This amendment changes the definition of financial instruments classified at fair value through profit or loss and restricts the ability to designate financial instruments as part of this category.
Management is currently assessing the impact of this amendment on the Groups operations.
IAS 39 and IFRS 4 Amendment, Financial Guarantee Contracts effective from 1 January 2006.
This amendment relates to the recognition and valuation of certain issued financial guarantees.
IFRS 6, Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources effective from 1 January 2006 and amendment.
IFRS 6 is not relevant to the Groups operations.
IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, and a complementary amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures effective from 1 January 2007.
