Accounting Policies Deferred Taxation Accounting Convention Deferred tax is recognised on a full provision basis on all timing differences These financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost which have originated, but not reversed, at the balance sheet date convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain tangible fixed assets, calculated at rates of tax expected to apply, based on current tax rates and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting law.
Timing differences represent accumulated differences between the standards UK GAAP, as modified by the revaluation of certain fixed companys taxable profit and its financial profit and arise primarily from assets in the UK.
Compliance with SSAP 19 Accounting for Investment payments to the Groups defined benefit pension schemes and the Properties requires departure from the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 relating to depreciation and an explanation of the departure is difference between accelerated capital allowances and depreciation.
given in the tangible fixed assets accounting policy note below.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities have not been discounted.
Tangible Fixed Assets Changes in accounting policies Plant and machinery fixed assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis Cobham plc the company has adopted FRS 20 Share Based Payment, FRS 21 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, FRS 23 Effects of Changes to their estimated residual values over their estimated useful lives which in Foreign Exchange Rates and FRS 26 Financial Instruments: range from three to five years.
Investment properties are not depreciated.
The adoption of each of these standards represents a change in accounting policy and the comparative figures have been In accordance with SSAP 19, investment properties are held at open restated accordingly except where the exemption to restate comparatives market value.
Any aggregate surplus or deficit on revaluation is transferred has been taken.
Details of the effect of the prior year adjustments are to a revaluation reserve, and no provision is made for depreciation of given in Note 8. freehold properties.
This departure from the requirements of the Companies Act 1985, which requires all properties to be depreciated, Turnover is, in the opinion of the directors, necessary for the financial statements Turnover is measured at the fair value of the right to consideration and is to show a true and fair view in accordance with applicable accounting generally recognised when services are delivered and excludes value added standards.
tax and other sales taxes.
The depreciation which would, had the provisions of the Act been Pensions followed, have reduced profit for the year is only one of the factors The company and its subsidiaries operate a number of defined benefit reflected in the annual valuation and the amount attributable to this and defined contribution schemes.
factor cannot reasonably be separately identified or quantified.
Defined benefit schemes are funded, with the assets of the scheme held Investment in group undertakings separately from those of the company, in separate trustee administered Investments are stated at cost less any provision for impairment in value.
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and Operating Leases discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high Operating lease payments for assets leased from third parties are charged quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the scheme to the profit and loss account as incurred.
The actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date.
These are multi-employer schemes Provisions including employees of other Group companies.
It is not considered A provision is recognised when the company has a present legal or possible to allocate scheme assets and liabilities between the various constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that companies and, accordingly, the schemes are accounted for as though settlement will be required of an amount that can be reliably estimated.
they were defined contribution schemes.
Provisions for contingent consideration are recognised when it is For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the profit and considered probable that the conditions attaching to potential payment loss account in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement will be met.
benefits is the contributions payable in the year.
Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are Long-term liabilities and provisions are discounted when the impact shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Share Capital Preference share capital is classified as a liability if it is redeemable on a specific date or at the option of the preference shareholders or if dividend payments are not discretionary.
Dividends on preference share capital classified as liabilities are recognised in the profit and loss account as dividend expense.
82 Cobham plc Foreign Currencies The functional currency of the company is sterling.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denoted in non-functional currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date and any exchange differences arising are taken to the profit and loss account.
In order to manage exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the company enters into forward contracts and options which are accounted for as derivative financial instruments.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Receipts and payments on derivative financial instruments are recognised on an accruals basis, over the life of the instruments.
Finance costs associated with debt issuances are charged to the profit and loss account over the life of the instruments.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
The companys activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The company uses foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swap contracts to reduce these exposures.
The company does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Hedge accounting principles are used for interest rate swaps.
For interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges, movements in fair value are held in equity until such time as the underlying transactions crystallise.
At that time, amounts held in equity will be recycled to the profit and loss account.
Movements in the fair value of interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges are recognised through the profit and loss account.
The company manages foreign currency exposures on a macro basis and has chosen not to apply hedge accounting to these instruments.
Thus contracts which give rise to an asset or liability are recognised at fair value at the balance sheet date and any change in the fair value is recognised in the profit and loss account.
Share Based Remuneration For grants made under the companys share based remuneration schemes, amounts which reflect the fair value of options awarded as at the time of grant are charged to the profit and loss account.
The valuation of the options utilises a methodology based on the Black-Scholes model, modified where required to allow for the impact of market related performance criteria.
The company has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of FRS 20 in respect of equity settled awards and has applied FRS 20 only to equity settled awards granted after 7 November 2002.
