Business Review: Flight Operations and Services Coastwatch mission equipment operator on board a Dash 8 aircraft In Aircraft Engineering, a 20 year contract was 50m, 20 year maintenance In Special Mission Flight Operations Cobham won to support the UK fleet of E-3D Sentry contract for UK E-3D Sentry was awarded preferred bidder status in 2005 for Airborne Warning and Control System AWACS the prestigious Australian Coastwatch contract.
Cobham is a member Falcon 20 fleet conversion to On 3 March 2006 a A$1bn, 12 year contract was of a team led by Northrop Grumman, that includes glass cockpit completed early signed to provide key elements of a border patrol BAE Systems and the AAR Corporation, that service to the Australian government.
Under the provides logistics support under the E-3D Sentry A$100m Qantas 717 order new contract Cobham will provide, operate and maintain an updated fleet of ten Dash 8 aircraft Whole Life Support Programme.
The contract through to the year 2020, starting in January builds on a Partnering Agreement signed with A$1bn, 12 year Australian 2008.
It is Cobhams biggest ever single order to BAE Systems in 2004 with Cobham being the Coastwatch contract date and underlines the Groups surveillance preferred maintenance provider to BAE Systems expertise in an increasingly demanding networkfor large military aircraft.
programme, together with Cobhams support of the Nimrod fleet at RAF Kinloss represent The new service, based on Bombardier Dash 8 good organic growth and brings the total number aircraft, will double the fleet of fully electronic of military bases where Cobham personnel are surveillance aircraft available under the existing located to five.
contract from five to ten.
The aircraft will provide all-weather, day and night electronic surveillance An order was received for the conversion of of Australias maritime Exclusive Economic Zone two DC10 aircraft to air refuelling tankers.
The E-3D Sentry Airborne Warning and Control System aircraft maintained by Cobham to detect and deter illegal activity such as drug conversion using Cobham air refuelling pods will and people smuggling, illegal fishing and be carried out at Bournemouth International environmental offences.
Airport and be completed in 2006.
In January 2006 the Group announced the acquisition of the minority interest in its 51% owned UK-based flight inspection subsidiary Flight Precision Limited FPL and the entire issued share capital of Aerodata Flight Inspection GmbH AFI in Germany, from Aerodata AG.
FPL and AFI have military and civil customers throughout the UK, the Netherlands, Spain, Portugal, Germany and countries in North Africa and the Middle East.
The acquisitions enhance Cobhams market-leading position in the highly specialised flight inspection service market.
The market worldwide is growing steadily with the emergence of new airports and equipment upgrades and a trend by military and civil organisations to outsource flight inspection activities.
With an enlarged fleet of common aircraft and bases in the UK and mainland Europe, Cobham is well placed for further growth.
8 8 C Cobham plc obham plc service in only four months illustrating the flexibility In Outsourced Commercial Aviation, a new two Revenue Trading profit and responsiveness of Cobham, highlighting why m m year freight contract was signed with Australian Qantas chose to extend its relationship with air Express AaE, a joint venture between Qantas Cobham in a very competitive environment.
Each 25 and Australia Post, to continue operating five 200 aircraft is anticipated to operate for between two B727s.
Cobham is Australias largest operator of containerised jet aircraft operating five B727s and and three years under the new contract.
On behalf of AaE, Cobham flies 70,000 tonnes of priority freight and In Military Training, the upgrade of the 20 mail annually throughout Australia.
Falcon 20 fleet of aircraft to glass cockpit was 150 completed ahead of schedule, with 14 aircraft A contract, initially worth approximately A$100m, converted and fully operational.
Discussions on was finalised to operate and maintain a fleet of Electronic Warfare training needs for the 15 eight Boeing 717s on behalf of Qantas in Australia.
Five Boeing 717s were introduced into service in 100 2005 replacing BAe 146 aircraft already operated by Cobham, with three more to be introduced in 10 2006.
The eight 115 seat passenger jets will be used on QantasLink regional routes in Western Australia, the Northern Territory and Northern Queensland.
The first new aircraft was put into 50 5 0 0 04 05 04 05 One of eight Boeing 717 aircraft operated and maintained on behalf of Qantas in Australia Annual R Annual Repor eport & t & A Accounts 2005 ccounts 2005 9 9 188.5 197.2 22.0 17.2
