4.3 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2005 1.
Accounting policies The financial statements have been prepared in Income is credited to the profit and loss account as space In accordance with FRS19 Deferred Tax: accordance with applicable accounting standards under and other services are provided to customers.
Gross the historical cost convention modified by the revaluation property income includes costs recovered from tenants i deferred tax is recognised in full in respect of of investment properties.
Compliance with SSAP19 and outsourcing customers.
Rental income includes the transactions or events that have taken place by the Accounting for Investment Properties requires a net income from managed operations such as car parks, balance sheet date and which could give the Group departure from the requirements of the Companies Act food courts, serviced offices and flats.
an obligation to pay more or less tax in the future.
1985 relating to depreciation and an explanation of this departure is given in h iii below.
Service charges and other recoveries include income ii deferred tax is not recognised on revaluation gains in relation to service charges and directly recoverable and losses where these are not taken to the profit and With the exception of UITF37 Purchase and Sale of own expenditure together with any chargeable management loss account.
Shares which has been adopted for the first time this year fee.
by the Group, the following accounting policies have been iii full provision is made for timing differences which, in applied consistently in dealing with items which are Property services income represents unitary charges the Groups case, arise primarily from capital allowances considered material in relation to the Groups financial and the recovery of other direct property or contract and industrial building allowances and the capitalisation statements.
and timing of recognition of certain interest payable.
Following the sale or demolition of a property, any In accordance with the Accounting Standards Boards deferred tax provision not crystallised is released to a Consolidation ASB Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract 28 Operating the profit and loss account.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group Lease Incentives UITF28 the Group treats any incentive include the financial statements of the Company and its for lessees to enter into lease agreements as a revenue subsidiary undertakings made up to 31 March 2005. g Positive and negative goodwill cost and accounts for rental income from the Subsidiaries, joint ventures and joint arrangements with an The positive goodwill arising on the acquisition of Trillium, commencement date of any rent-free period.
The cost accounting reference date other than 31 March have been calculated as the excess of cost over the fair value of net of all lease incentives such as rent-free periods or consolidated on the basis of management accounts made assets acquired, was capitalised in the year in which it contributions to tenants fitting out costs is, therefore, up to 31 March 2005.
Group undertakings and interests in arose and is amortised to the profit and loss account over offset against the total rent due.
The net rental income is joint ventures and joint arrangements acquired during the the life of the PRIME contract.
then spread evenly over the shorter of the period from the year are accounted for from the date of acquisition.
rent commencement date to the date of the next rent The negative goodwill arising on the acquisition from review or the lease end date.
The joint ventures are included under the gross equity Slough Estates of companies holding certain retail method in accordance with FRS9 Associates and Joint properties will be recognised in the profit and loss account Ventures.
This requires the Groups share of the joint d Bid costs in the periods in which the properties are sold.
ventures profit and loss account to be shown separately In accordance with the ASBs Urgent Issues Task Force in the income statement, and the Groups share of the Abstract 34 Pre-contract Costs UITF34, bid costs h Investment properties joint ventures gross assets and liabilities to be shown on incurred prior to the exchange of a contract with no i Valuation the face of the balance sheet.
material pre-conditions to completion, and which do not Investment properties, including those that comprise comprise incidental costs associated with the acquisition part of the development programme, are carried in the The Group also has interests in various partnerships which of fixed assets or finance costs, are expensed.
financial statements at market values based on the latest are treated as joint arrangements in the Groups financial professional valuation.
A valuation was carried out by statements.
The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, e Pensions Knight Frank as at 31 March 2005.
Properties are treated income and expenditure of these partnerships is included Contributions to defined benefit pension schemes, which as acquired when the Group enters into an unconditional in the relevant sections of the consolidated profit and loss are based on independent actuarial advice, are charged to purchase contract and as sold when subject to an account and balance sheet as required by FRS9.
the profit and loss account on a basis that spreads the unconditional contract for sale.
Additions to properties expected costs of benefits over the employees working consist of costs of a capital nature and, in the case of b Consolidated profit and loss account and other lives with the Group.
Variations from regular costs are investment properties under development, certain primary statements spread over the anticipated remaining working lives of capitalised interest see Note h ii below.
The profit on ordinary activities before taxation is arrived employees in the schemes.
Pre-commitment expenditure incurred in studying the at after taking into account income and outgoings on all feasibility of potential development and refurbishment properties, including those under development.
In The Group has applied the transitional provisions of schemes is written off to the profit and loss account and accordance with FRS3 Reporting Financial Performance, FRS17 Retirement Benefits and appropriate additional included in other direct property expenditure if it is likely profits and losses on properties sold during the year are disclosures have been included in Note 5. that the related project will be abortive or that the calculated by comparing net sales proceeds with book expenditure will be of no benefit to an alternative scheme values.
Prior to the decision being made as f Taxation to whether a potential development or refurbishment Surpluses and deficits relating to previous years realised on In accordance with FRS16 Current Taxation, taxation scheme should proceed or be aborted, pre-commitment investment properties sold during the year are transferred arising on the sales of properties is charged to the profit costs are carried as a prepayment in the balance sheet.
directly from the revaluation reserve to retained profits and loss account in respect of the excess of net sale and do not pass through the profit and loss account.
proceeds over book value and to the statement of total Certain internal staff and associated costs directly recognised gains and losses in respect of prior year attributable to the management of major development Unrealised capital surpluses and deficits, including those revaluation surpluses realised on those sales.
schemes during the construction phase are capitalised.
arising on the periodic revaluation of properties, are taken Other overhead costs in respect of developments and to the revaluation reserve.
No provision is made for the taxation which would refurbishments are treated as revenue expenditure and become payable under present legislation if the Groups written off as incurred.
properties were sold at the amounts at which they are c Gross property income carried in the financial statements.
However, an estimate The Groups gross property income comprises rental of the potential liability is shown in Note 21. income, service charges and other recoveries from tenants of its investment and trading properties, property services income earned by its property outsourcing business and proceeds of sales of trading properties.
Land Securities Annual Report 2005 85 4.3 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2005 1.
Accounting policies continued ii Capitalisation of interest j Other tangible fixed assets n Financial instruments Gross interest associated with direct expenditure on These comprise computers, motor vehicles, furniture, The Group uses interest rate swaps to help manage its properties under development or undergoing major fixtures and fittings, and improvements to Group offices interest rate risk.
The rate used is the Groups and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their pre-tax weighted average cost of borrowings or, if estimated useful lives of between two and five years.
Where interest rate swaps are hedging existing interest appropriate, the rate on specific associated borrowings.
rate exposures or are expected to hedge future interest Interest is capitalised as from the commencement of the rate exposures, the differences between the interest k Investments in Group undertakings development work until the date of practical completion.
payable by the Group and the interest payable to the The Companys investments in the shares of Group The capitalisation of finance costs is suspended, however, Group by the swap counterparties are dealt with on an undertakings are carried at cost.
Assets and liabilities of if there are prolonged periods when development activity accruals basis.
If interest rate swaps are not deemed likely acquired entities are brought into consolidation at fair is interrupted.
Interest is also capitalised on the purchase to hedge interest rate exposures for the foreseeable future, value as at the date of acquisition.
Where the cost of cost of a site or property if it was acquired specifically for the mark to market value of the relevant interest rate acquisition exceeds the fair value of the net assets redevelopment in the short term.
Interest is not swaps would be taken to the profit and loss account.
acquired, the difference is treated as goodwill and capitalised on the acquisition cost of properties previously capitalised in the Groups balance sheet in the year of held as portfolio investments.
The goodwill arising is amortised to the profit o Long-term contracts and loss account in accordance with Note g. Turnover on long-term contracts is recognised according iii Depreciation to the stage reached in the contract by reference to the In accordance with SSAP19, depreciation is not provided The results and cashflows of acquired Group undertakings value of work completed.
An appropriate estimate of the on investment properties that are held as freeholds or on are included in the consolidated profit and loss account profit attributable to work completed is recognised once leases having more than 20 years unexpired.
This is a and the consolidated cash flow statement from the date the outcome of the contract can be assessed with departure from the Companies Act 1985 which requires of acquisition.
The amount by which the turnover all tangible assets to be depreciated.
In the opinion of exceeds payments on account is shown under debtors as the directors, this departure is necessary for the financial amounts recoverable on contracts.
The costs on long-term statements to give a true and fair view and comply with l Trading properties contracts not yet taken to the profit and loss account, less applicable accounting standards which require investment Trading properties are those properties held as stock for any related foreseeable losses and payments on account properties to be included in the financial statements at sale and, being current assets, are carried at the lower of are shown in stocks.
The effect of depreciation is implicitly cost and net realisable value, except as noted below.
reflected in the valuation of investment properties, and the amount attributable to this factor cannot reasonably Transfers of property from fixed assets Investment p Purchase and sale of own shares be separately identified or quantified by the valuers.
Had Properties to current assets Trading Properties are made In accordance with UITF37 Purchase and Sale of own the provisions of the Act been followed, net assets would at the current carrying value at the date of transfer.
This Shares consideration paid for the Companys own shares not have been affected but revenue profits would have departure from the requirements of the Companies Act is deducted in arriving at shareholders funds.
been reduced for this and earlier years and revaluation 1985, which requires current assets to be held at the lower surpluses deficits would have been correspondingly of cost or net realisable value, is, in the opinion of the increased decreased.
directors, necessary for the financial statements to show a true and fair view in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
Had the provisions of the Act been i Operating properties followed, the net assets of the Group could be artificially These are properties owned and managed by Land reduced on transfer and the profit on disposal, calculated Securities Trillium, the Groups property outsourcing by reference to a lower carrying value, could give rise to an business unit, and which do not satisfy the definition of artificially high profit.
Operating properties are carried at depreciated cost and not revalued, and are subject to Transfers of property from current assets Trading periodic impairment reviews.
Such reviews compare Properties to fixed assets Investment Properties are forecast book values with forecast net sales proceeds at made at the current carrying value at the date of transfer.
the point in the future when the assets are expected to be sold.
Provisions are made only if a permanent Trading profits are recognised upon exchange of contracts diminution in value is identified.
for the unconditional sale of property.
Freehold land is carried at historical cost and is not depreciated.
m Provisions for liabilities and charges Provision is made for dilapidations that will crystallise in Freehold buildings are depreciated in equal annual the future where, on the basis of the present condition of instalments over 50 years.
Any premiums paid to acquire the property, an obligation already exists and can be reliably leaseholds are amortised over their unexpired lease terms.
The estimate will be revised if necessary over the remaining period of the lease to reflect changes in the Expenditure which enhances the economic benefits of a condition of the building or other changes in freehold building is capitalised and depreciated over circumstances.
Unless there is evidence to the contrary, it appropriate periods up to a maximum of 50 years.
Capital is assumed that the dilapidations obligation arises in the expenditure on leasehold properties is depreciated over last five years of a lease.
The estimate of the amount of the the shortest of the life of the asset, the expected period of likely obligation takes account of relevant external advice.
occupation of the relevant building and the remaining life of the underlying property outsourcing contract.
Repair and maintenance expenditure is written off to the profit and loss account as incurred.
