Glossary Adjusted earnings per share Initial yield Retail park Earnings per share based on revenue profit and adjusted Annualised net rents generated by the investment A scheme of three or more retail warehouse units 2 to exclude deferred tax associated with investment portfolio expressed as a percentage of the portfolio aggregating over 4,650m with shared parking.
Reversionary or under-rented Adjusted net asset value per share Interest rate swap Space where the passing rent is below the ERV.
NAV per share adjusted to add back deferred tax A financial instrument where two parties agree to associated with investment property together with any exchange an interest rate obligation for a predetermined Reversionary yield accounting deficits in joint ventures that do not represent amount of time.
These are used by the Group to convert The anticipated yield, which the initial yield will rise to actual liabilities of the Group.
floating rate debt to fixed rates.
once the rent reaches the ERV.
Average unexpired lease term Investment portfolio SSAP19 Excludes short-term lettings such as car parks and The investment portfolio comprises Land Securities Statement of Standard Accounting Practice SSAP19 advertising hoardings, residential leases and long ground wholly-owned investment properties together with the Accounting for Investment Properties.
properties held for development but excludes Land Securities Trillium properties.
Stamp duty Balanced scorecard Government tax levied on certain legal transactions An approach to strategic management developed in the Investment properties including the purchase of property.
Robert Kaplan and David Norton to Properties held for investment purposes, excluding translate an organisations vision into a set of development programme, Kent Thameside, Land Securities Total business return performance indicators distributed among four Trillium properties and trading properties.
Dividends plus annual growth in net asset value.
perspectives: Financial, Customer, Internal Business Processes, and Learning and Growth.
Joint venture Total development cost An entity in which the Group holds an interest on a longAll capital expenditure on a project including the opening Book value term basis and is jointly controlled by the Group and one book value of the property on commencement of The amount at which assets and liabilities are reported or more venturers under a contractual arrangement development, together with all finance costs.
whereby decisions on financial and operating policies essential to the operation, performance and financial Total investment property return Combined portfolio position of the venture require each venturers consent.
Valuation surplus, FRS3 profit loss on property sales and The combined portfolio is the total value of Land net rental income in respect of investment properties Securities investment portfolio together with our share of Like-for-like portfolio expressed as a percentage of opening book value of the the value of the assets held in joint ventures.
Properties that have been in the investment or combined investment property portfolio.
portfolio for the whole of the current and previous Credit rating financial year.
Total shareholder return An independent assessment by Credit Rating Agencies The growth in value of a shareholding over a specified of a borrowers overall ability to meet its financial Net asset value NAV per share period, assuming that dividends are reinvested to obligations under debt and similar arrangements.
Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of purchase additional units of the stock.
ordinary shares in issue at the period end.
Development pipeline Trading properties The Groups development programme together with Net nominal equivalent yield Properties held for trading purposes and shown as current any proposed schemes that are not yet included in the The internal rate of return from an investment property assets in the Balance Sheet.
development programme but which are more likely to reflecting reversions to current market rent, and such proceed than not.
items as voids and expenditures but disregarding potential Turnover rent changes in market rents and reflecting the actual cash Rental income which is related to an occupiers turnover.
The Groups development programme comprises projects UITF28 which are completed but less than 95% let: developments Open A1 planning permission Urgent Issue Task Force Abstract 28 UITF28 Operating on site: committed developments being projects which Planning permission for the retail sale of any goods other Lease Incentives requires the Group to treat incentives are approved and the building contract let : and than food.
for lessees to enter a lease to be offset against the total authorised developments those projects approved by the rent due.
Board for which the building contract has not yet been Open market value let.
For reporting purposes we retain properties in the Open market value is an opinion of the best price at UITF34 programme until they are 95% let.
which the sale of an interest in the property would Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract 34 UITF34 Precomplete unconditionally for cash consideration on the contract Costs requires bid costs incurred prior to Development surplus date of valuation as determined by the Groups external exchange of contract to be expensed.
Excess of latest valuation over the total development valuers.
In accordance with usual practice, the Groups cost.
external valuers report valuations net, after the deduction Unitary charge of the prospective purchasers costs, including stamp duty, The basic payment received by Land Securities Trillium Diluted figures agent and legal fees.
Reported amount adjusted to include the effects of potential shares issuable under employee share schemes.
Operating properties Voids Properties acquired and managed by Land Securities The area in a property or portfolio, excluding Earnings per share EPS Trillium as part of its property outsourcing contracts with developments, which is currently available for letting.
Profit after taxation attributable to ordinary shareholders third parties and which do not meet the accounting divided by the weighted average number of ordinary definition of investment property.
Weighted average cost of capital WACC shares in issue during the year.
Weighted average of our cost of debt and our notional Over-rented cost of equity, used as a bench-mark to assess investment Estimated rental value ERV Space that is let at a rent above its ERV.
The estimated market rental value of lettable space as determined biannually by the Companys valuers.
This will Passing rent Yield on present income normally be different to the rent being paid.
The annual rental income receivable which may be more The annual net rents generated by the portfolio expressed or less than the ERV see over-rented and reversionary.
as a percentage of the portfolio valuation.
FRS3 profit loss Profit loss on disposal of fixed asset properties Pre-let Zone A calculated as the excess deficit of net sale proceeds A lease signed with an occupier prior to completion of A means of analysing and comparing the rental value of over the book value.
For investment properties book value a development.
retail space by dividing it into zones parallel with the comprises the Companys valuers annual valuation at the main frontage.
The most valuable zone, Zone A, is at the previous financial year end plus any capital expenditure in Rental value growth front of the unit.
Each successive zone is valued at half the period.
Increase in the current rental value, as determined by the the rate of the zone in front of it.
Companys valuers, over the 12-month period on a likeFRS17 for-like basis.
Financial Reporting Standard 17 FRS17 Retirement Benefits.
Revenue profit Profit before tax, excluding FRS3 profits losses and any Gearing net exceptional items.
Total borrowings, including bank overdrafts, less shortterm deposits, corporate bonds and cash, at book value, Retail plus non-equity shareholders funds as a percentage of Includes shops, shopping centres, Central London retail equity shareholders funds.
