Aegis R&A 2005 Finance 101-116 12 4 06 7:13 am Page 1 Our business and strategy Our board and reports Our accounts Notes to the Companys financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2005 1.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation and change in accounting policy The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and law.
The Directors Report, Corporate Governance and Directors Remuneration Report disclosures have been made in the front section of this report, refer to pages 33 to 48.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year, with the exception of the implementation of FRS 20 Share-based Payment, FRS 21 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Measurement, the impact of which is detailed in Notes 8, 9, 11 and 12.
The comparative information has been disclosed in accordance with FRS 13 Derivatives and Other Financial Instruments: Disclosure.
Cash flow statement The company has utilised the exemptions provided under FRS1 Revised and has not presented a cash flow statement.
The cash flow statement has been prepared in the Group financial statements.
Related party transaction In accordance with Financial Reporting Standard Number 8: Related Party Disclosures, the company is exempt from disclosing transactions with entities that are part of the Aegis Group, or investees of the Group qualifying as related parties, as it is a parent publishing consolidated financial statements.
Employee benefits The retirement benefits for employees are principally provided by defined contribution schemes which are funded by contributions from the Company and employees.
The amount charged to the income statement is the contribution payable in the year.
Share-based payments The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 20 Share-based Payment.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, FRS 20 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested at 1 January 2005.
Certain employees receive remuneration in the form of share-based payments, including shares or rights over shares.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value of the instruments concerned at the date at which they are granted.
The fair value is determined by an external valuer using a stochastic model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on the vesting date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the number of awards that, in the opinion of the directors at that date, will ultimately vest.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
Interest income Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of all fixed assets to their residual value over their expected useful lives.
It is calculated on the historic cost of the assets at the following rates: Leasehold buildings Over the period of the lease Leasehold improvements 10% - 20% per annum or over the lease if shorter Office furniture, fixtures, equipment and vehicles 10% - 50% per annum Software 33% per annum Other 5% - 10% per annum 101
