Aegis R&A 2005 Finance 49-72 12 4 06 7:08 am Page 7 Our business and strategy Our board and reports Our accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2005 1.
General Information Aegis Group plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The address of the registered office is given on page 32.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 4 and in the Report of the Directors on pages 33 to 34.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling GBP because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 3.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted in the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
Basis of Preparation This Annual Report has been prepared in accordance with the recognition and measurement bases of IFRS for the first time.
The disclosures required by IFRS 1 in respect of the transition from accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom UK GAAP to IFRS are provided in note 35.
Aegis Group plc has elected to adopt the amendments to IAS 19 Employee benefits, issued in December 2004, in advance of their effective date of 1 January 2006 and is presenting actuarial gains and losses arising on defined benefit pension schemes in the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but have not yet come into effect: IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures: and the related amendment to IAS 1 on capital disclosures IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease The directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group except for additional disclosures on capital and financial instruments when the relevant standards come into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007.
The additional disclosures under IFRS 7 include stating the carrying amount of financial assets and liabilities under each of the classifications in IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: an analysis of the age for financial assets that are either past due or impaired: a reconciliation of changes in carrying amounts during a period where impairment is recorded through an allowance account as opposed to a direct reduction to the carrying amount of the financial asset: and additional requirements on providing sensitivity analysis on market risks and how changes in these risks would have impacted profit or loss and equity in the period.
The comparative figures for the financial year ended 31 December 2004 have been restated from UK GAAP to IFRS.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption available under IFRS 1 not to apply IAS 32 and IAS 39 until 1 January 2005, and as such no adjustments relating to these standards have been included in the comparatives for the year ended 31 December 2004.
An adjustment to the opening balance sheet at 1 January 2005 has been made to align the Groups 2005 opening position under IAS 32 and IAS 39, resulting in a decrease in equity of 43.0 million.
Reconciliations between UK GAAP and IFRS on equity as at 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2004 and a reconciliation of profit and loss for the year ended 31 December 2004 are included in note 35.
The Group believes that underlying results note 5 and underlying earnings per share note 12 provide additional useful information on underlying trends to shareholders.
These measures are used for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation arrangements for employees.
The term underlying is not a defined term under IFRS and may not therefore be comparable with similarly titled profit measurements reported by other companies.
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measurements of profit.
The principal adjustments made are in respect of items which are significant by nature or amount in the opinion of the directors.
These may include impairment charges and other exceptional items, including profits and losses on disposals of investments, amortisation of purchased intangible assets being amortisation charged on separately identifiable intangible assets in acquired businesses, unrealised gains and losses on non-hedge derivative financial instruments, fair value gains and losses on liabilities in respect of put option agreements, and any related tax thereon, as appropriate.
The Groups operations are split into two principal market sectors, namely media communications and market research.
These divisions are further analysed into geographic segments which bring together products in comparable market areas under common business heads.
This is how the Groups operational management is structured and its results are reviewed and thus form the primary reporting segments note 4.
