Aegis R&A 2005 Finance 49-72 12 4 06 7:08 am Page 8 Aegis Annual Report 2005 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2005 3.
Accounting policies Principal accounting policies The principal accounting policies set out below have been consistently applied to all the periods presented in this Annual Report except for those relating to the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption available under IFRS 1 not to apply IAS 32 and IAS 39 until 1 January 2005.
Change in accounting policy The Group has made a UK GAAP prior year adjustment, additional to the restatements required under IFRS, for a change in accounting policy in respect of the timing of revenue recognition in respect of certain media consultancy contracts in the US.
Net assets at 1 January 2004 have been reduced by 0.8 million.
Group profit in the current year has increased by 0.2 million as a result of this change in accounting policy 2004: reduction in profit of 0.1 million.
Basis of consolidation a Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results, cash flows and net assets of Aegis Group plc and the entities controlled by it after eliminating internal transactions and recognising any minority interests in those entities.
Control is achieved where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain economic benefits from its activities.
Where subsidiaries are acquired in the year, their results and cash flows are included from the date of acquisition up to the balance sheet date.
Where a consolidated company is less than 100% owned by the Group, the minority interest share of the results and net assets are recognised at each reporting date.
Where a company has net liabilities, no asset is recorded within minority interests unless the minority shareholder has an obligation to make good its share of the net liabilities.
A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in the notes to the Companys separate financial statements.
b Associates Associated companies are entities in which the Group has a participating interest and over whose operating and financial policies it exercises a significant influence and which are neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture.
The reporting dates and accounting policies used by its associates are the same as those used by the Group.
The Groups associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement and as a movement in the Groups share of associates net assets in the balance sheet.
Its share of any post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised directly in equity.
Losses of the associates in excess of the Groups interest in those associates are not recognised.
Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant associate.
c Joint ventures Joint ventures are investments over which the Group exercises joint control with a third party.
Such investments are equity accounted for.
Business combinations and goodwill The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
Goodwill on acquisitions is initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable net assets.
56 Aegis R&A 2005 Finance 49-72 12 4 06 7:08 am Page 9 Our business and strategy Our board and reports Our accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2005 3.
Accounting policies continued Business combinations and goodwill continued Following initial recognition, goodwill is carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill recognised under UK GAAP prior to the date of transition to IFRS is stated at net book value as at that date.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Deferred consideration on acquisitions is provided based on the directors best estimate of the liability at the balance sheet date.
The liability is discounted and an imputed interest charge is included in the income statement.
Changes to estimates of amounts payable are made to deferred consideration and goodwill.
Intangible assets Separately acquired intangible assets are capitalised at cost.
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at fair value at the date of acquisition.
For business combinations, cost is calculated based on the Groups valuation methodology, using discounted cash flows.
An internally-generated intangible asset arising from the Groups development activities is recognised only if all of the following conditions are met: an asset is created that can be identified such as software and new processes : it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: and the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Where these criteria are met, the development expenditure is capitalised at cost.
Where they are not met development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Intangible assets are amortised to residual values over the useful economic life of the asset as follows: Software 20% to 50% per annum Panel costs 33% per annum Patents and trademarks Nil to 20% per annum Other 10% to 50% per annum Where an assets useful life is considered indefinite, an annual impairment test is performed see below.
Property, plant and equipment Tangible fixed assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of all fixed assets to their residual value over their expected useful lives.
It is calculated on the historical cost of the assets at the following rates: Freehold buildings 1% to 5% per annum Leasehold buildings Over the period of the lease Leasehold improvements 10% to 20% per annum or over the period of the lease, if shorter Office furniture, fixtures, equipment and vehicles 10% to 50% per annum The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss, if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
57 Aegis R&A 2005 Finance 49-72 12 4 06 7:08 am Page 10 Aegis Annual Report 2005 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2005 3.
Accounting policies continued Fixed asset investments For all periods up to 31 December 2004, the Groups other fixed asset investments are stated at cost less any provision for permanent diminution in value.
As noted below, this policy has been amended following the Groups adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 on 1 January 2005.
Inventory: work in progress Work in progress comprises directly attributable costs on incomplete market research projects and is held in the balance sheet at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand and deposits with an original maturity of three months or less, net of overdrafts.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where leasehold properties remain unutilised by the Group and have not been sublet, provision is made in full for the outstanding rental payments together with other outgoings for the remaining period of the lease.
This provision takes into account any future sublet income reasonably expected to be obtained.
Future rental payments are charged against this provision in the period in which they are made.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Investments in own shares, held through the Aegis Group Employee Share Trust, are shown as a deduction from shareholders equity at cost.
The costs of administration of the Trust are included in the income statement as they accrue.
Turnover amounts invoiced to clients and revenue Turnover amounts invoiced to clients represents amounts invoiced for media handled by the Group on behalf of clients, together with fees invoiced for media and research services provided, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
Revenue is the value of media and research fees and commission earned by the Group.
Media revenue is recognised when charges are made to clients, principally when advertisements appear in the media.
Fees are recognised over the period of the relevant assignments or agreements.
Performance related income is recognised when it can be reliably estimated whether, and the extent to which, the performance criteria have been met.
For the market research business, revenue is recognised on the satisfactory completion of a specific phase of a project.
Provision is made for losses on a project when identified.
Invoices raised during the course of a project are booked as deferred income on the balance sheet until such a time as the related revenue is recognised in the income statement.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
58 Aegis R&A 2005 Finance 49-72 12 4 06 7:08 am Page 11 Our business and strategy Our board and reports Our accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2005 3.
Accounting policies continued Share-based payment transactions The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based payment.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that remained unvested as of 1 January 2005.
Certain employees receive remuneration in the form of share-based payments, including shares or rights over shares.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value of the instruments concerned at the date at which they are granted.
The fair value is determined by an external valuer using a stochastic model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on the vesting date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the number of awards that, in the opinion of the directors at that date, will ultimately vest.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share.
Employee benefits The retirement benefits for employees are principally provided by defined contribution schemes which are funded by contributions from Group companies and employees.
The amount charged to the income statement is the contribution payable in the year.
In addition, the Group has a small number of funded defined benefit obligations, principally where required by local statutory regulations.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit obligations is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of the plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated using the project unit credit method with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds approximating to the terms of the related liability.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately outside the income statement and are presented in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Upon settlement, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rate ruling on the settlement date.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the year end are re-translated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising upon re-translation at the settlement date or balance sheet date are taken to the income statement.
Exchange differences arising on the re-translation of foreign currency borrowings used to provide a hedge against foreign currency investments, including goodwill, are taken directly to reserves.
For consolidation purposes, the trading results and cash flows in foreign currencies, arising in foreign subsidiaries, are translated into sterling at average exchange rates for the period.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising upon consolidation are taken directly to reserves.
Leased assets Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement over the lease term on a straight-line basis.
59 Aegis R&A 2005 Finance 49-72 12 4 06 7:08 am Page 12 Aegis Annual Report 2005 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2005 3.
Accounting policies continued Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax nor accounting profit.
Deferred tax is calculated for all business combinations from the transition date of 1 January 2004 in respect of intangible assets and properties.
A deferred tax liability is recognised to the extent that the fair value of the assets for accounting purposes exceeds the value of those assets for tax purposes and will form part of the associated goodwill on acquisition.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, including interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Segment reporting A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
A geographical segment is engaged in providing services within a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
Segment result is segment operating profit stated before share of results of associated undertakings and joint ventures.
60 Aegis R&A 2005 Finance 49-72 12 4 06 7:08 am Page 13 Our business and strategy Our board and reports Our accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2005 3.
Accounting policies continued Accounting policies applied from 1 January 2005 In addition to the principal accounting policies presented above, the following policies have been applied from 1 January 2005 following the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 at that date.
Financial instruments Financial assets are accounted for on the trade date.
Financial assets and financial liabilities principally include the following: Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs and at subsequent reporting dates at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the net profit or loss for the period.
Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Direct issue costs are amortised over the period of the loans and overdrafts to which they relate.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption are charged to the income statement as incurred using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying value of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Convertible bond The convertible bond is regarded as a hybrid financial instrument, consisting of a liability component being the host contract, and an equity conversion component also recognised as a liability.
The instrument is treated wholly as a liability as the convertible bond is denominated in a foreign currency and therefore the proceeds upon conversion are considered to be a variable amount of functional currency cash for a fixed number of shares.
At the date of issue, the embedded option to convert the host contract into equity of the Group, is separately fair valued.
The amount assigned to host contract liability is the net proceeds after issue costs less the fair value of the embedded option.
The difference between the fair value of the host contract liability at issue and its face value is being amortised over the life of the instrument as a notional interest charge through the income statement.
The Group's convertible bond matures in May 2006, at which point the additional notional interest charge will be fully amortised.
The embedded option to convert the host contract liability into equity of the Group will be subsequently measured at fair value in the income statement.
Trade payables Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Derivative financial instruments Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
The Groups activities expose it to certain financial risks including changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group uses foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swap contracts to hedge these exposures.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are held at fair value at the balance sheet date.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity.
Amounts deferred in this way are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged firm commitments or forecast transactions are recognised in the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gains or losses on the hedging instrument recognised in equity are retained until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement for the period.
Liabilities in respect of option agreements Option agreements that allow the Groups equity partners to require the Group to purchase the minority interest are treated as derivatives over equity instruments and are recorded in the balance sheet at fair value.
The fair values of such options are re-measured at each period end.
The movement in the fair value is recognised as income or expense within finance charges in the income statement.
The Group recognises its best estimate of the amount it is likely to pay, should these options be exercised by the minority interests, as a liability in the balance sheet.
