COMPASS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 72 CORPORATE OFFICES Corporate Office Compass Group PLC Compass House Guildford Street Chertsey Surrey KT16 9BQ United Kingdom Tel 44 0 1932 573 000 Fax 44 0 1932 569 956 www.
com Compass Group PLC CE & ROW 200 Avenue fide Paris Chtillon 92320 France Tel 33 1 76 61 10 00 Fax 33 1 76 61 10 10 United Kingdom Headquarters Compass Group, UK & Ireland Rivermead Oxford Road Denham Uxbridge UB9 4BF United Kingdom Tel 44 0 1895 554 554 Fax 44 0 1895 554 555 North America Headquarters Compass Group, North America 2400 Yorkmont Road Charlotte NC 28217 USA Tel 1 704 329 4000 Fax 1 704 328 4010 Front cover image: Flushing Meadows, New York Designed & produced by Carnegie Orr 44 0 20 7610 6140 Printed in the UK by St Ives Westerham Press It is our policy to produce the document constituting our annual and interim reports with a minimum impact on the environment.
To this end the paper used is 100% chlorine free woodpulp from sustainable forests, using thinnings and waste from the timber industry and is totally recyclable and biodegradable.
Our printers are fully accredited to the ISO 14001 environmental management system and are a CarbonNeutral company.
They utilise vegetable based inks and operate a direct computer to plate repro system, eliminating the need for film with its chemicals such as developer and acid fixers.
Compass Group PLC Compass House Guildford Street Chertsey Surrey KT16 9BQ United Kingdom Tel 44 0 1932 573 000 Fax 44 0 1932 569 956 www.
com Annual Review 2005 Our commitment to building greater value Our business We are specialists who help ways of maximising value clients either outsource or from our core operations.
establish a food or support service, or sometimes both, We have to work smarter to suit their needs.
simplifying what we do and how we do it, focusing on How we do that draws on our core contract catering our global resources and our operations, leveraging client understanding of different relationships by growing the cultures and market sectors.
range of our support services, We work in partnership with maximising synergies for our clients, usually in their clients, organic profit growth premises.
And by using their for us and enhanced value facilities and equipment we for our shareholders.
keep capital investment to an absolute minimum.
The task now is to make it Looking at the world map today happen.
shows how far we have come since 1992.
We have grown from Our strategy is about building a domestic operator to a global value for shareholders.
That journey has given Delivering this value is enshrined us a great platform to build on in 4 commitments to all our and enabled us to benefit from stakeholders.
Commitments opportunities far and wide.
that each reflect the potential inherent in the business.
Making the most of these opportunities starts, as ever, Our 4 commitments: by being clear why we are in business.
We will ensure that we maximise the return on the Our aim is to be the premium investments we have made.
operator in the contract catering Page 06 and support services market with an outstanding reputation 2.
We will never forget the for quality, value for money and importance of keeping the client & customer satisfaction.
Page 08 To achieve this means maintaining our market leading 3.
We will deliver on our positions in the worlds key expertise with an unrivalled regions with major brands in consistency.
Page 10 But it also means applying fresh thinking to the way we 4.
We will continue to place run our business, re-energising the best people in the the talents that have made us business in our business.
a leader while looking at new Page 12 02 Chairmans statement 26 Independent auditors statement 04 Chief Executives statement to the members of Compass 07 Summary operating review Group PLC 14 Acting responsibly in business 27 Summary consolidated profit and 16 Summary financial review loss account 18 Board of directors 28 Summary consolidated balance sheet 20 Summary directors report 29 Summary consolidated cash flow Turn here for our 2005 21 Summary corporate information regional financials, governance report 30 Notes to the summary financial information on the 22 Summary Remuneration statements brands we own and for Committees report 32 Five year summary the regions we cover.
IBC Shareholder information This Annual Review 2005 does not contain sufficient information to allow for a full understanding of the results of the Group.
For further information the separate publication Annual Report 2005 constitutes the full Annual Financial Statements of the Group which is available from our website www.
Group results by division North America United Kingdom 3,937m 3,292m Turnover Turnover 2004: 3,531m 2004: 3,092m Key Core markets Developing markets 207m 205m Operating profit Operating profit 2004: 190m 2004: 294m Continental Europe Rest of the World 3,587m 1,888m Turnover Turnover 2004: 3,432m 2004: 1,717m 190m 107m Operating profit Operating profit 12% 2004: 178m 2004: 109m North America Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
Our market sectors, businesses and brands Business and Industry A world leader in food and We operate in clearly defined We use sector focused businesses services management to market sectors through distinct, and innovative foodservice branding customers at their place of work.
to expand our business through a combination of organic growth and acquisitions.
Fine Dining The finest possible dining facilities for boardrooms, hospitality and major social events.
Vending Providing what has become an integral part of the food and beverage operation for modern organisations.
6% United Kingdom 2% Continental Europe 8% Rest of the World Growth in turnover by geographical region Like for like growth in turnover excludes fuel and is calculated by adjusting for acquisitions excluding current year acquisitions and including a full year in respect of prior year acquisitions, disposals excluded from both years and exchange rate movements translating the prior period at current period exchange rates, and compares the results against 2004.
Education Leisure Constantly striving to find Providing superior quality new ways to ensure we are catering for prestige sporting playing our part in building and cultural venues.
Healthcare and Seniors Travel Concessions Offering the highest standards of High quality food and food safety and hygiene and a beverage services at detailed understanding of the travel locations.
nutritional needs of this sector.
Owned and Defence, Offshore and Remote Franchised Brands A unique portfolio of local, The worlds largest provider of integrated support services national and international foodservice brands offering to these sectors in over 50 countries.
consistency, recognition, quality and value.
ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 COMPASS GROUP PLC 01 These are important times for Compass.
A time to build on the value inherent in the business.
This thinking forms the basis of the 4 key commitments in this document.
Each one signals the potential in Compass.
Each commitment will lead to greater value.
Financial highlights Group turnover Free cash flow 12,704m 348m 2004: 11,772m 2004: 246m Total operating profit Return on capital employed 711m 5.7% 2004: 775m 2004: 6.4% Basic earnings per share 19.1p 2004: 21.1p Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
COMPASS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 02 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Since 1992 we have built a strong platform in the global foodservice market, but now we must leverage the synergies that this platform and scale give us to deliver enhanced shareholder value.
During 2005 we conducted a comprehensive review to identify the actions we must take to create this value.
2005 was one of the most difficult years Market overview that Compass Group has experienced.
The contract catering and vending Strong performances in North America market excluding travel concessions has and the Rest of the World regions a value of approximately 215 billion of were offset by difficult trading, particularly which only around one third is outsourced in the UK and several European countries.
Compass Group Acceleration in the change of structure has around a 5% share of this global of contracts from cost plus to fixed price market.
Collectively the worlds major or profit and loss has also impacted on foodservice companies have margins.
However, we have taken decisive approximately a 10% market share.
action to re-energise the business and The trend by organisations to outsource to focus on our core contract catering their catering requirements is continuing operations, and to build on the growth in as clients seek to reduce their foodservice the support services business to improve subsidies.
Competition within the industry financial performance.
Barriers to entry at a local level have decided to exit the travel-related are low and it is relatively easy to open and concessions market by selling SSP.
run a small number of contracts.
Barriers are much higher when moving to a largeOverview of Group results scale operation, however.
As a result the 3 of our 4 geographic divisions performed market is characterised by a large number to our expectations.
Like for like turnover of small operators at one end, very little growth for the year was 7% driven by very in the mid-market, and a few large-scale strong performances in North America at global operators at the other end.
12% and in the Rest of the World at 8%.
We are seeing some change in the Free cash flow for the year was structure of our contracts with an 353 million at 2004 exchange rates, acceleration away from cost plus contracts, up 44% on the previous year.
Operating where all the costs are recharged to the profit before goodwill amortisation and client along with a management fee, to exceptional items fell to 711 million fixed price contracts where the client from 775 million last year primarily as a pays a fixed price for a specified range result of tough trading in the UK and the of services and to profit and loss type reduction in scale and profitability of the contracts where the contractor bears the Groups Middle East military business.
Over 70% of our contracts are now Operating profit in the UK fell by 89 fixed price or profit and loss based.
About one-third The global support services market is of this decline is due to cost pressures estimated to be worth over 300 billion, and the impact of the London bombings.
of which less than 30% is outsourced, The remaining two-thirds can be attributed with projected growth in outsourcing to increased pension contributions, expected to be 5-9% annually.
By restructuring costs, lower disposal focusing on building growth in support profits, the sale of the Gatwick Meridien services we can leverage our existing hotel and less capital expenditure.
client relationships to better effect, and maximise synergies and efficiencies.
Shareholder returns The recommended final dividend is Management 6.5 pence per share resulting in a total This is my last annual report as Chairman.
dividend for the year of 9.8 pence Sir Roy Gardner, currently CEO of Centrica per share, an increase of 5.4% on the PLC, joined the Board on 1 October as previous year.
the Senior Independent Director and will ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 COMPASS GROUP PLC 03 succeed me as Chairman by summer reached.
and fully with the UN and US authorities, 2005 saw a number of other changes including the Office of the United States to the Group Board.
Michael Bailey, CEO Attorney for the Southern District Court since 1999, announced in September his of New York.
decision to step down and a full search to find his successor is underway.
He Outlook will stay as Chief Executive as long as is In 2006, the Group anticipates continued required by the Board.
The Nominations strong trading in North America and the Committee, chaired by Sir Roy Gardner, Rest of the World excluding the impact is well advanced with this process and of scaling back the Middle East military has appointed the headhunter Korn Ferry business.
In Continental Europe, where to conduct the search.
Clive Grundy, the macro-economic climate is expected Group Human Resources Director left the to continue to contribute to a difficult Company: Alain Dupuis, CEO Eastern trading environment, the focus will remain Division, stepped down from the Board on keeping a tight cost base and working though he remains with the Group as to improve client retention.
In the UK, Chief Executive of our emerging markets cost pressures are expected to remain business and Andrew Lynch, CEO of SSP a significant challenge, however, actions stepped down from the Board following are being taken to deliver a robust our decision to sell this business.
contract base with the aim of achieving Also, after 27 years with the business, a similar level of profit to that in 2005.
Company Secretary Ron Morley has Overall the Group will continue to focus left the Group.
I would like to thank on free cash flow and improving return them all for their contribution.
United Nations Conclusion Since the end of the financial year we have I have been with the Company for over had cause to instigate an investigation 20 years.
In this time we have grown led by Freshfields, supported by Ernst from a company with revenues of under & Young, into the relationship between 250 million to over 12 billion and Eurest Support Services ESS, IHC and from operations in just 1 country to over the United Nations.
The investigation is 90 countries and established ourselves as being overseen by Steve Lucas, Chairman the worlds leading foodservice company.
The Board takes This is a strong base from which to create this matter very seriously indeed.
Our enhanced value for shareholders and Code of Ethics determines the nature I have confidence that the Group is of all our business relationships and well placed to do this going forward.
applies to everyone, everywhere and in all circumstances.
That is why we acted decisively and dismissed 3 executives after the external investigation raised serious concerns as to whether, within ESS, there had been, in connection with IHC and the UN, improper conduct and a failure to comply with our business principles.
The investigation is on-going Sir Francis Mackay and no final conclusions have been Chairman COMPASS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 04 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT The last year has been a difficult one, but a new Compass is now beginning to emerge which is sharper and smarter, with a clear focus on what we have to do to deliver client and customer satisfaction and drive up the value inherent in the business.
Strategy Our aim is to be the premium operator in the contract food and support services market with an outstanding reputation for quality, value for money and client & customer satisfaction.
The role of our people in delivering an outstanding service that exceeds our clients and customers expectations and enhances the Companys performance, creating value for shareholders, is critical to achieving this aim.
I know that over the last 2 years our financial performance has not lived up to our shareholders or our own expectations.
That is why in the spring of 2005 I initiated a root and branch review of all aspects of our operational and financial performance.
We concluded that the business had become too complex, both in terms of our structure and the range of businesses we operate, and that we have spread our resources and investment too thinly.
In order to drive returns for shareholders we have decided to focus on our core contract catering operations and on building on the growth in our support services offering.
To do this we have decided to sell our Travel Concessions business, Select Service Partner SSP.
Whilst the travel concessions market offers considerable growth opportunities the sale of SSP will enable us to focus better on driving the financial performance of our core businesses and delivering enhanced returns to shareholders over the longer term.
The formal sale process for SSP has commenced and we are encouraged by the considerable interest being shown by potential acquirers.
We anticipate that a sale will be concluded by the end of the first half of 2006.
Proceeds from the sale will be used principally to reduce debt and strengthen the Groups balance sheet, with the balance being returned to shareholders.
We will keep exclusive access to brands such as Caff Ritazza, Upper Crust and Harry Ramsdens in our core contract catering sectors and will seek to enter ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 COMPASS GROUP PLC 05 into an agreement with the acquirers and Defence, Offshore and Remote.
We Supplier Code of Conduct widely available to retain the purchasing benefits.
responded to the trend for added value and are putting in place a formal process We have also simplified our structure services in the North American healthcare for suppliers to raise any issues with us.
by reducing the number of operating market with the purchase in 2001 of divisions.
This has helped speed up Crothall and we have been very successful Managing for value decision making and is expected to in transferring these skills to other parts Compass has a very strong entrepreneurial result in estimated overhead savings of the business, particularly in the UK.
spirit and it is critical that we retain this of 50 million in 2006.
The critical life support services whilst at the same time improving the we provide to clients in the Offshore financial disciplines around capital Challenges and opportunities and Remote sector has also given expenditure and cash generation.
There The contract catering and support us valuable experience in providing is no one size fits all solution.
In our services markets still offer considerable fully integrated catering and support most successful division, North America, opportunities for growth but they are services.
We are seeing an increasing we will continue to pursue profitable new not without their challenges.
trend amongst clients, particularly business opportunities as well as focusing In contract catering, rather than the in Business and Industry, to bundle their on driving more profit from existing client company providing a subsidy to the catering requirements alongside certain contracts.
We will continue to invest end user, the trend is increasingly for the soft support services such as cleaning, proportionately more capital to support full cost to be reflected in the price paid laundry and reception in order to this growth as it is in North America where by the customer.
Inevitably, the customer reduce the number of contractors we are generating some of our best and, benchmarks the foodservice offer against they have to manage.
By that available in the high street.
To The margins in our existing support contrast, in the UK and northern Europe compete, caterers have to change the way services business are similar to those where we are facing both economic and they operate, not only to serve but also to in contract catering and, generally, this market challenges, we will focus on driving sell.
This means adopting merchandising type of business requires lower levels of value through productivity efficiencies and skills and techniques commonly seen within capital investment.
We see the demand the implementation of a more retail skills the retail sector to drive throughput and for support services accelerating over the oriented business model.
spend per head whilst, at the same time, next few years and now is the right time improving labour productivity.
to focus on developing and growing our Conclusion We have been particularly successful capability and business in this market.
Whilst our financial performance over the in adopting this model in North America past 2 years has not been good enough, and we are accelerating the roll-out of Client and supplier relationships I believe that we have during 2005 put in this model to the rest of our operations.
Building long-term relationships with our place the actions necessary to give us a We have also developed retail skills clients and suppliers remains a key focus robust base from which to drive future training to support our front-line staff in for us.
Clients want quality and value for profit growth and that the fundamentals delivering against these new challenges.
money and our success in delivering this of our business model are the right ones In the Education and Healthcare is reflected in client retention which was to deliver value for shareholders.
sectors there are still considerable once again 95% for the year.
Many clients opportunities for growth.
Public sector have been with us for long periods, in the bodies are recognising the considerable UK, for example, the average length of benefits in terms of service, quality client relationship is over 9 years.
and efficiency that outsourcing their Providing quality and value for money requirements to specialist contractors depends on building lasting partnerships can bring.
We estimate that only about with our many suppliers.
In the UK, for 30% of the global education and example, over 96% of the suppliers who healthcare markets are currently provide us with over three quarters of our outsourced, underlining the significance purchases have been with us for more Michael J Bailey of the opportunity.
We are working with Chief Executive Our operational and financial suppliers to improve payment terms and experience in support services has been have made considerable progress over gained in 2 key sectors Healthcare the past 2 years.
We are also making our 06 Turning our investment into something worth having Our commitment to building greater value: We will ensure that we maximise the return on the investments where our focus on free cash flow and improving return on capital we have made employed will ensure significant cost savings and healthy profitability, #1 The investment weve made hasnt just provided us with valuable brands leading to even greater value.
So when we look at the map today, and products, it has given us a great platform in a global market.
One we see opportunities far and wide for tomorrow.
ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 COMPASS GROUP PLC 07 SUMMARY OPERATING REVIEW The Groups operations are managed across 4 geographic divisions.
North America Katrina towards the end of the year.
During the year significant contract gains and renewals included a new 3-year 3,937m 207m Turnover Operating profit contract for Eurest, in conjunction with Canteen, with AT&T with annual turnover of nearly 3 million and the Hospital of 12% Growth in business the University of Pennsylvania awarded Morrison Management Specialists, in This was another excellent year for our conjunction with Crothall, a new 5-year contract with annual revenues of over North American business with like for like turnover growth of 12% and operating 11 million.
The success of our Education business, Chartwells, is reflected in profit, excluding associates, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, new and retained contracts with annual revenues of over 26 million including the increasing from 190 million in 2004 to 207 million in 2005.
North America now University of West Florida, UNC Asheville, Wentworth Institute of Technology, accounts for 32% of the Groups turnover, excluding fuel, and 29% of operating Edinboro University, Rochester City North America Schools and a renewal of the contract profits, excluding associates, goodwill Contract gains and renewals amortisation and exceptional items, and with the Chicago Public Schools A new 3-year contract for Eurest, in conjunction with Canteen, with AT&T system.
In addition The Bradley Center employs over 123,000 people.
We once with annual turnover of nearly 3 million.
again saw strong growth in our Healthcare awarded Levy Restaurants a new 7-year contract with annual turnover businesses which grew by 15% on a like Morrison Management Specialists were for like basis.
The Business and Industry of over 5 million.
awarded a new 5-year contract with the In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina and Education sectors delivered solid Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in conjunction with Crothall, with annual growth whilst Vending showed a modest we continued to service our clients and revenues of over 11 million.
customers in the affected regions.
In increase of 4% on a like for like basis.
Our Sports & Leisure business had another anticipation of the hurricane, Eurest, Chartwells won and retained contracts along with their clients, had organised very strong year with like for like growth with annual revenues of over 26 million.
of 17%, reflecting the success of Levy and prepared food services, water and basic living supplies for thousands of Levy Restaurants were awarded a new Restaurants in delivering not only strong 7-year contract with annual turnover of contract gains, but also increased evacuees.
Over 20,000 meals were served over 5 million by The Bradley Center.
We established customer spend at our venues.
North America still represents a temporary tent cities providing essentials for relief workers and victims, and significant market opportunity.
Based largely on information made available by supported 6 tent cities located in the Gulf States region.
A relief centre in Pascagoula, the National Restaurant Association and In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina Technomic Inc. it is estimated that just Mississippi provided shelter and food for we continued to service our clients and 15,000 evacuees.
Also 4 tent villages, over 50% of the contract catering market customers in the affected regions.
In is outsourced and that contractor supporting over 2,600 employees and anticipation of the hurricane, Eurest, families were built.
Morrison Management penetration in the important Education along with their clients, had organised and prepared food services, water and and Healthcare sectors is estimated to Specialists teams stayed in place through basic living supplies for thousands the hurricane to assist in the evacuation of be in the region of 40%.
Over 20,000 meals were The other factor in our success is 6 hospitals and served 15,000 meals daily served daily.
to patients and residents at 4 hospitals and a well developed retail model that drives throughput and spend per head 2 senior dining communities in the Gulf Coast states.
implemented by an experienced and highly motivated management team led by Gary The actions of our people in the wake of this natural disaster are a testament to their Green.
There has been a slight decline in the operating margin to 5.3% 2004: 5.4%, dedication to client and customer service.
The outlook for our business in North mainly due to the impact of the National Hockey League strike and Hurricane America is very good.
08 Keeping a place for the customer Our commitment to building greater value: We will never forget the importance of keeping the decision we make is made with the customer in mind.
Thats why, at customer satisfied every meeting in our Company, we like to imagine that a customer is #2 Its a simple equation happy customers leads to happy clients and in the room with us, so we always save them a chair.
that equals a successful and profitable relationship for us.
Every ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 COMPASS GROUP PLC 09 SUMMARY OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED United Kingdom mature but still capable of delivering profitable growth.
To capture this growth, we have undertaken a detailed review of 3,292m 205m our contracts portfolio, to ensure we have Turnover Operating profit a robust contract base with sustainable margins.
At the low end of the margin 6% spectrum we have sought to increase Growth in business prices and improve the margin or, in some The UK now accounts for 23% of the instances, we are prepared to exit the contract.
At the high end we have Groups turnover, excluding fuel, and 29% of its operating profit excluding recognised that we need to absorb some of our cost increases, as we have this associates, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items and employs year, in order to retain these accounts.
Properly executed, the net effect of approximately 88,000 people.
Despite achieving turnover growth of 6% on these actions should enable us in 2006 to deliver the same level of profit as 2005. a like for like basis in Contract catering and 4% on a like for like basis in Contract gains and renewals of note during the year include a renewed 7-year Travel Concessions, the overall financial performance of the business has contract with Prudential with annual revenues of over 1 million: renewed been unsatisfactory.
Cost pressures, particularly in Business and Industry, contracts for Medirest with the West Hertfordshire Hospital NHS Trust and have resulted in the Contract catering United Kingdom Contract gains and renewals margin declining from 8.6% in 2004 Homerton University Hospital NHS A renewed 7-year contract with Foundation Trust with combined annual to 5.9% in 2005.
We have only been Prudential with annual revenues able to pass on some of these cost revenues of around 13 million and, of over 1 million.
in Education, renewed contracts with increases to clients.
In July we refreshed the UK Durham County Council and Millfield Renewed contracts with NHS Trusts School with annual revenues of over for Medirest with annual revenues management team and instituted a of around 13 million.
programme to give us a more solid contract 11 million.
Our decision to sell our Travel base from which to grow.
Don Davenport, Renewed contracts in Education who became CEO of the UK business Concessions business, in order to focus with Durham County Council on our core Contract catering operations following the merger with Granada, stepped and Millfield School with annual down after over 40 years service to the and to build on the growth in Support revenues of over 11 million.
Services, will change the profile of our hospitality industry, for which we thank him.
He has been replaced on an interim basis UK business.
UK Travel Concessions account for 52% of total Travel by Gary Green, CEO of our North American business.
We have also appointed a new Concessions turnover, excluding fuel, and 28% of our UK turnover, excluding fuel.
leader for our Business and Industry operations, which account for 55% of our Despite the difficulties our UK business has faced over the past 2 years all of our Contract catering business.
Chris Copner brings strong retailing skills with him from people remain fully focused on delivering against their clients and customers his time as Managing Director of our UK Travel Concessions business.
expectations and this is reflected in the positive feedback we are receiving from The first stage of this programme is to cut out unnecessary management our unit-based staff.
layers, improve accountabilities and reduce cost.
The UK market still offers significant opportunities, not least in Healthcare, Education, Leisure and increasingly Support Services.
The Business and Industry sector is more 10 Remembering what success looks like Our commitment to building greater value: We will deliver on our expertise with an unrivalled consistency due to our quality of product, and service.
Making this work as a The measures to judge success can be remarkably simple.
Busy profitable business means delivering on our expertise time and #3 cafeterias, heavy footfall, limited wastage of produce, repeat requests time again.
New practices that were introducing will enhance this and empty plates.
In other words getting the basics right leads to dynamic and lead to greater success.
customer satisfaction and client retention.
These things happen ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 COMPASS GROUP PLC 11 SUMMARY OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED Continental Europe and Continental Europe and in margins broadly similar to last year Rest of the World Rest of the World despite rising costs, particularly related to Contract gains and renewals escalating energy prices.
We have also A new 5-year contract with Swiss business aligned our European purchasing teams Continental Europe Swisscom with annual revenues of over more closely with country operations so 13 million.
as to ensure that purchasing synergies 3,587m 190m In Germany a new 5-year contract are realised whilst ensuring the needs of Turnover Operating profit with Alcatel worth 3 million in annual operators at the local level are being met.
Significant contract gains and renewals 2% in the year include, in Switzerland, a new Growth in business In France contracts with Sollac Loraine 5-year contract with Swisscom with and Bouygues Arc fide Seine worth over 3 million in annual revenues.
annual revenues of over 13 million: in Rest of the World Germany a new 5-year contract with Contracts in Healthcare combined to Alcatel worth 3 million in annual produce annual revenues of over 1,888m 107m revenues: in France contracts with 6 million.
Turnover Operating profit Sollac Loraine and Bouygues Arc fide In Vending, contracts with Paresto MOD Seine worth over 3 million in annual in the Netherlands and Saab in Sweden are 8% revenues: contracts in Healthcare included worth over 3 million.
Growth in business Association Notre-Dame fide Bon Secours in Paris, University Hospital Bonn in In Japan, a new 3-year contract with Japan Continental Europe represents 29% Germany, Maria Gamla Stan District Post is worth over 18 million in annual of the Groups turnover, excluding fuel, Council in Sweden and Ullevl Patient revenues and a 5-year contract with Fukuoka Mutual Aid Association is worth and 27% of its operating profit excluding Hospital in Norway with combined over 2 million in annual revenues.
associates, goodwill amortisation and annual revenues of over 6 million: and exceptional items, whilst Rest of the in Vending contracts with Paresto MOD In Australia a 5-year contract for ESS World represents 15% of turnover, in the Netherlands and Saab in Sweden with the Commonwealth Government of excluding fuel and 15% of operating worth over 3 million.
Australia is worth over 13 million in profit excluding associates, goodwill annual revenues and a 10-year contract with Campus Living Sydney University amortisation and exceptional items.
Rest of the World Village and RMIT village is worth nearly Approximately 195,000 people are There were strong new business 2 million in annual revenues.
performances in Australasia and South Like for like turnover growth for the America.
Contract gains included, in Japan, year was 4.0% with the margin broadly a new 3-year contract with Japan Post in line with last year at 5.5%.
worth over 18 million in annual revenues and a 5-year contract with Fukuoka Mutual Continental Europe Aid Association worth over 2 million in Trading in Continental Europe remains annual revenues: and in Australia a difficult with little or no growth in the 5-year contract with the Commonwealth major markets of France, Germany, the Government of Australia worth over Netherlands and Italy.
In France and 13 million in annual revenues and a the Netherlands we put in place new 10-year contract with Campus Living management during the course of the Sydney University Village and RMIT village year that have restructured the business worth nearly 2 million in annual revenues.
by reducing management layers and In order to grow our business in introducing a shared services approach emerging markets such as China, to back of house functions, such as Indonesia, India, Turkey and Russia, accounting and IT, which have reduced Alain Dupuis stepped down from the operating costs.
Trading in Spain and Group Board to become CEO of these Switzerland was more encouraging.
emerging markets to ensure that they We continue to roll out our purchasing get the necessary management focus model and the success of this is reflected to realise their future potential.
12 Recognising what were made of Our commitment to building greater value: We will continue to place the best people in the business powerful team built on experience, knowledge, integrity and in our business commitment.
Where attention to detail and shared responsibility #4 At every level of the organisation our people excel.
Theres an ability are second nature.
Our people make us what we are today and to deliver.
An innate and infectious can-do attitude that fosters pride will shape our future.
A collective sense of achievement this is a huge and ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 COMPASS GROUP PLC 13 SUMMARY OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED We are continuing to scale down brand, which was launched in 2004, to our Middle East military business with improve our ability to attract, recruit and turnover reducing to 170 million in retain the best people by clearly and 2005 2004: 250 million and operating consistently communicating the reasons profit, before exceptional items, was why people would choose to join and 35 million 2004: 50 million.
There are develop their careers with Compass.
still opportunities for military business in Our commitment is to deliver real the Middle East but increasingly we are opportunities to our people throughout choosing not to participate in this work their career.
We define this in 8 core because the margin is becoming less opportunities, ranging from how people attractive relative to the complexity of join the Group, to work life balance and the operations and associated risks.
One of these is the opportunity to learn and grow, which Our people restates our long-standing commitment This year we have seen continued to developing the skills of our people.
evidence that our strategy to be This year has seen a number of innovative recognised as a preferred employer is new programmes to support this.
Our most recent of this are the Compass College in global workforce survey shows an increase Australia, which has created a suite in loyalty, pride in the Group and the of training programmes for staff at all likelihood to recommend Compass as a levels that can be delivered either face place to work compared to the same to face or online via the web: the Great survey in 2003.
To further underline this, Business Growing our Sales programme, Compass Group was named 7th best large which provides our front-line teams with company to work for in the Annual Best the retail and merchandising skills needed Companies to Work For list produced by to drive up sales and throughput: and the Sunday Times newspaper in the UK, Sed fide Saber, an award winning selfa ranking based on the papers own paced learning programme in North independent survey of our people.
Most America to help Spanishspeaking staff recently the Group won 3 Personnel Today improve their English, both on a general awards for Employer Branding, Best HR level and specifically for working in the Strategy and the Best Overall Award.
A significant contribution to this The net result of our people strategy performance is the degree to which we live is that we are seeing a significant increase our values in the organisation our people in internal promotions, improvements in continue to rate us highly for the emphasis retention in countries such as Australia, we place on teamwork and on the focus France and the UK, and an increase in we give to service and food quality.
the number of people applying to work Compass Group was named 7th best Importantly, the greatest improvements we for Compass.
large company to work for in the Annual Best Companies to Work have seen have been with our front-line Our people strategy continues to For list produced by the Sunday service teams, especially in those areas attract external recognition, winning a Times newspaper in the UK, a such as recognition, communication, number of major awards in the past year.
ranking based on the papers own support from their manager and sharing Most rewarding of all is that the individual independent survey of our people.
success, where we have put specific and team skills of our people and the programmes in place in response to the quality of the food and service they feedback from our last global survey.
provide continues to receive acclaim Our commitment to listen to our people in the 2004 Culinary Olympics alone we and take action has contributed to an won an outstanding 57 awards, including increase in participation in the survey.
3 gold, 32 silver and 14 bronze medals.
In addition we have begun to see We will continue to build on these the impact of the Groups employment successes in the year ahead.
COMPASS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 14 ACTING RESPONSIBLY IN BUSINESS Naturally we wish to focus on areas where we can have most impact, and we concentrate our efforts on these: our people, wellness and nutrition, sourcing and serving food responsibly, communities and the environment.
Because of our position as one of the implementing cost-effective largest foodservice companies working environmental initiatives: and around the globe we have a big influence working with local communities and on what 20 million customers a day choose suppliers to help them supply the to eat and drink: the foods we buy can goods Compass wants, and be in a affect food production sustainability and the position to take up employment environment: and we have an obligation to opportunities with Compass.
the vast number of different communities in which our people live and work.
So with our Our business principles scale comes responsibility.
Our business principles form the We take this responsibility very seriously.
foundations upon which our corporate Its what people expect of us whether responsibility programme is based.
clients, employees, suppliers, investors or The full text is available at www.
They trust every one of group.
com: us to act responsibly in the way we manage employees as a service company, Further information about our business.
Responsible behaviour has our people are key to our success.
We our corporate responsibility always been deeply ingrained in our should respect and value the individuality programme can be found at www.
and diversity every employee brings to 2 years ago we developed a policy and our business and seek always to create measurement matrix that highlighted the key a positive, open, working environment: impact areas of operations.
We review this clients and customers our reputation matrix regularly, with feedback from our and the loyalty of our clients and stakeholders, to ensure the impact areas are customers depends upon our delivering still relevant.
Furthermore, in June 2004 we superior food quality, service and choice: became a signatory to the United Nations investors our success is built upon the Global Compact and the 10 principles they trust and confidence of our investors and use.
This, together with our own business we are dedicated to protecting their principles, forms the foundation of our long-term interests: corporate responsibility programme as it suppliers and subcontractors we affects everyone, everyday, everywhere.
seek to establish mutually beneficial relationships with all our suppliers, and Doing business responsibly encourage them to match our high We have always encouraged our people standards of food safety, working to act with integrity in their relationships conditions, trading practices, health and with each other, our clients and safety and environmental protection: and customers, suppliers and partners governments and the wider community and other stakeholders.
our success depends on complying with In the last year we talked to many of the law, together with sensitivity to local our stakeholders to understand their customs and conventions governing expectations.
In their view, the most business relationships.
relevant activities for Compass to demonstrate responsibilities in action were: In addition, we use the 10 principles set being proactive about wellness and out in the United Nations Global Compact nutrition, for all the worlds citizens: relating to human rights, labour standards, actively supporting our people in building the environment and anti-corruption, to healthy and sustainable communities: underpin our own business principles.
We try to support improving the employability of local producers and suppliers wherever disadvantaged people by sharing we are in the world.
skills and expertise: Source: Compass Group stakeholder research on corporate responsibility, Sept Oct 2004 ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 COMPASS GROUP PLC 15 We are included in the DJSI, FTSE4Good, and The Global Compact commitment.
The BITC Awards 2005 recognised our sponsorship of the Hoxton Apprentice.
The restaurant is partly staffed by people who were previously long term unemployed or homeless.
How we manage corporate Sourcing and serving food responsibly responsibility Each year we buy over 3.5 billion worth of Progress against our strategy is reviewed food.
Our clients and customers want to annually by the Group Board, and more know where the food they eat comes from, often by the Executive Committee, whose that its safe and from sustainable sources.
members have responsibility for key We do too.
A steering group of senior managers Compass in the community We feed 20 million customers provides support to individual country and With 40,000 outlets around the world were around the world, everyday.
We are educating all our customers operating company management teams.
part of a lot of different communities.
The with the advice and information This structure provides leadership, community element within our corporate needed to make their own guidance and support in the form of a responsibility programme focuses on our lifestyle choices.
common set of policies and principles, belief that we achieve the greatest impact and allows us to manage and assess by encouraging our people to give time, our performance.
But a completely resources and skills to initiatives that prescriptive approach could not take address social exclusion issues within into account the enormous diversity those communities.
of our business, so our structure allows people the freedom to get on and do Our role in respecting the environment what is right at a local level.
Everyones future depends on the We are included in the DJSI and availability of clean natural resources.
FTSE4Good Indices, and our participation We recognise we have a responsibility in these provides us with an invaluable to do our bit to protect the planet.
tool for benchmarking progress, and we will report on this in future.
Our plans for corporate responsibility: Summarised below are the key impact to report annually on what we have areas we focus on: done to embed our business principles into our day-to-day operations: Our people to play our part in tackling the global People are at the heart of our business, challenge of wellness and nutrition: and our success depends on attracting, We run the worlds largest to complete our food safety handbook employee surveys to monitor developing and retaining the very best.
employee satisfaction and to and roll-out to unit managers in Europe That is why we place so much emphasis improve our service.
and North America during 2006 and on ensuring everyone, everywhere, shares to the rest of the Group in 2007: a common set of values values which Philip Executive Head Chef to put in place policies and procedures Hasina Production Assistant underpin our approach to corporate that will continue to ensure our food responsibility.
is sourced responsibly: Wellness and nutrition to report on activities to manage our There are 300 million obese adults in the environmental impacts, including data on world 100 million more than 10 years energy usage in the offices and premises ago.
In 20 years time the number of people for which we are directly responsible: dying from weight-related illnesses will to put in place a set of indicators to have doubled.
We are commited to playing measure our progress: and our part in helping our customers to eat to report on our progress in 2007 and more healthily.
outline targets for future activity.
COMPASS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 16 SUMMARY FINANCIAL REVIEW Actions are underway to improve financial performance, with continued focus on delivery of strong free cash flow and improved returns on capital employed ROCE over the medium term.
The Group has announced medium-term 2006-2008 objectives to improve ROCE by 100 basis points and to generate free cash flow over the period of 800-850 million post the disposal of SSP.
Group performance The Groups reported financial summary for the year ended 30 September 2005 is set out below.
Increase 2005 2004 decrease Turnover 12,704m 11,772m 7.9% Total operating profit reported 302m 500m 39.6 % before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 711m 775m 8.3 % Profit before tax reported 171m 370m 53.8 % before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 581m 645m 9.9 % Basic earnings per share reported 0.0p 8.3p before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 19.1p 21.1p 9.5 % Free cash flow 348m 246m 41.5% Turnover Like for like turnover growth of 7% was achieved as a result of new contract gains of 11% offset by contract losses of 5% and positive throughput of 1%, driven by North America where the business has been focused on driving volumes within existing accounts as well as achieving price increases.
The Group continues to focus on client retention, which was again high in the year at 95%.
This was achieved as a result of continued investment in people, client account management and contract retention teams.
The strong performance in like for like turnover growth was driven by new business wins across all sectors, with a continued trend to outsourcing in Healthcare and a high level of activity around the globe in Offshore and Remote supporting the buoyant extractive industries sector.
Total operating profit The decline in total operating profit, before goodwill amortisation and exceptional ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 COMPASS GROUP PLC 17 Goodwill amortisation and exceptional items are excluded from these graphs.
items, of 8% resulted primarily from asset write-downs and provisions of of the 2004 swap monetisation, more tough trading in the UK and the reduction 45 million have been reported as an than offset by a more stringent allocation in scale and profitability of the Groups exceptional item in 2005. of capital expenditure and improvements Middle East military business.
Trading in working capital management.
conditions in Continental Europe Dividends Acquisition payments were remained difficult in France, Germany, The recommended final dividend is 124 million, comprising 105 million the Netherlands and particularly Italy 6.5 pence per share resulting in a total of consideration paid, less 2 million which saw a significant downturn in the dividend for the year of 9.8 pence per of cash acquired and 21 million of Business and Industry sector.
In North share, an increase of 5.4% on 2004 deferred consideration and costs paid America, there has been a slight decline in reflecting confidence in the Groups in respect of previous acquisitions.
the year on year operating margin mainly ability to generate strong free cash flow.
In 2005, dividend payments totalled due to the impact of the National Hockey Dividend cover for 2005 was 1.9 times 205 million 2004: 249 million.
2004 League strike and Hurricane Katrina but profit before goodwill amortisation and reflected the payment of 3 dividends operating profit grew strongly at 9%.
In the short term, as the Group accelerated the timing earnings and cash dividends cover will of dividend payments.
Interest be impacted by IFRS, the increase in the Net proceeds from the sale of 75% Net debt at 30 September 2005 was cash tax rate and the disposal of SSP.
of Au Bon Pain and the Gatwick Meridien 2,316 million 2004: 2,373 million.
Whilst we remain committed to continue hotel were 75 million proceeds from Net interest expense for the year was to grow the dividend in real terms, our disposals in 2004: 86 million.
The objective over the medium term will be Conclusion average cost of funding for the year to move the dividend cover more towards As the market leader in a fragmented was 4.8% 2004: 4.8%.
Interest cover the 2 times level.
market place, the Group is well positioned for 2005 was 5.5 times total operating to benefit from its strong presence in the Pensions profit before goodwill amortisation key geographies, where significant In total the Group charged 78 million and exceptional items.
2004: 70 million to profit before tax borrowing costs are expected to in respect of pension arrangements.
increase the net interest expense to Actuaries to the Groups defined benefit nearer 140 million in 2006 before the pension arrangements advise the impact of proceeds from disposals and Pensions Trustees on the funding rates the adoption of IFRS.
In total, the Group Goodwill amortisation and paid 100 million 2004: 74 million during exceptional items the year to the pension providers in order The goodwill amortisation charge for the to enable funds to fulfil their obligations.
year was 269 million 2004: 275 million Disclosure in accordance with FRS 17: Andrew Martin and an additional charge of 95 million Retirement Benefits is provided in note 22 Group Finance Director in respect of the impairment of goodwill to the full financial statements.
This shows carried on the Italian business was incurred.
that, at 30 September 2005, there was a The decline in scale of the Groups gross pension deficit of 532 million, and, Middle East military business in 2005, with after the deduction of existing provisions, turnover down from 250 million in 2004 an unprovided deficit net of deferred to 170 million in 2005 and with operating tax of 222 million 2004: 131 million.
profit, before exceptional items, down from 50 million in 2004 to 35 million in Cash flow 2005, is likely to continue into 2006, with Free cash flow of 348 million 2004: operating profit expected to be no more 246 million reflects reduced operating than 5 million.
In the light of this quicker profit and higher cash interest payments than expected scaling back in activity, including a 20 million outflow as a result COMPASS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 18 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 2.
ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 COMPASS GROUP PLC 19 1.
Sven Kado Chairman Age 61 Non-executive director and Non-executive director Age 61 Appointed Chairman in July 1999 having Deputy Chairman Age 62 Appointed to the Board in April 2002. joined the Group in 1986 as Finance Appointed to the Board in November He is Chairman of Marsh & McLennan Director.
He is Chairman of GCAP Media PLC Holdings GmbH and was previously Chief in 1991 and additionally Deputy Chairman and a non-executive director of a number Financial Officer of Nixdorf Computer AG, in September 1994.
He is a member of of companies, including Arla Foods UK Chief Financial Officer of Dyckerhoff AG the Nomination Committee, non-executive PLC, ARM Holdings PLC, Christian and senior advisor of Principal Finance Chairman of Kingfisher plc, and a nonSalvesen PLC, Johnson Press PLC, Group Nomura International.
He is a executive director of English National Prostrakan Group PLC, Punch Taverns member of the Audit and Remuneration Opera and Carlton Financial Group Ltd. PLC and The Capita Group PLC.
Sir Francis received his Knighthood in is a former director of Grand Metropolitan 2003 for services to the hospitality industry PLC.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration 8.
Committee and is a member of the Non-executive director Age 51 Nomination Committee.
Appointed to the Board in July 2004.
Michael Bailey He is Group Finance Director of National Group Chief Executive Age 57 5.
Peter Blackburn CBE Grid Transco plc having been previously Appointed Group Chief Executive in Non-executive director Age 64 Executive Director, Finance of Lattice July 1999 having been appointed to Appointed to the Board in April 2002.
He is a chartered accountant the Board in 1995.
Joined the Group a non-executive director of SIG PLC and and since leaving private practice in 1993 to lead the branded concepts was until July 2005 Chairman of Northern in 1983 has held a number of senior team.
Appointed Chief Executive Officer Foods PLC.
He is a past President of the finance positions with Shell International of the North American Division upon Food and Drink Federation and former Petroleum Company and British Gas.
the acquisition of Canteen Corporation Chairman and Chief Executive of Nestl More recently he was Treasurer at in 1994.
Previously he was Managing UK.
Peter is a member of the Audit and BG Group plc.
Steve is Chairman of Director of Gardner Merchant UK and was Nomination Committees and was awarded the Audit Committee and is a member for 6 years President of its USA business.
a CBE in 2003 for services to the food and of the Remuneration Committee.
Sir Roy Gardner Group Finance Director Age 45 6.
Val Gooding CBE Senior Independent Director Age 60 Appointed to the Board in March 2004.
Non-executive director Age 55 Appointed to the Board in October 2005.
He was previously a partner with Arthur Appointed to the Board in January 2000.
He is Chief Executive of Centrica plc, Andersen and held senior financial She is Chief Executive of BUPA, a nonPresident of Carers UK, President of the positions with Forte PLC and Granada executive director of Standard Chartered Employers Forum on Disability and Group PLC.
Following the disposal of the PLC and formerly a non-executive director Chairman of the National Apprenticeship Hotels Division in 2001, Andrew joined of BAA plc and Cable and Wireless Task Force.
He is a former Chairman of First Choice Holidays PLC as Finance Communications PLC.
She is a member Manchester United plc, Finance Director Director.
He joined Compass Group in of the Council of the University of Warwick of British Gas plc, Managing Director 2004.
He is an Associate of the Institute and co-chair of the Advisory Board of the of GEC-Marconi Ltd and a director of of Chartered Accountants in England and Warwick Business School.
Sir Roy is Chairman of the Wales and an Associate of the Chartered of the British Museum, the President of Nomination Committee, a member of the Institute of Taxation.
International Federation of Health Plans Remuneration Committee and received his and a non-executive director of the Knighthood in 2002 for services to the gas Lawn Tennis Association.
Val is a member and electricity industries.
of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees and was awarded a CBE in 2002 for services to business.
COMPASS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 20 SUMMARY DIRECTORS REPORT Business activities, results and development A review of the Groups business activities, results and future development can be found on pages 1 to 17 and 27 to 32.
Dividends A final dividend is proposed for the year ended 30 September 2005 of 6.5p per ordinary share payable on 6 March 2006 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 10 February 2006.
The shares will be quoted ex-dividend from 8 February 2006.
This together with the interim dividend of 3.3p per share paid on 15 August 2005 makes a total for the period of 9.8p per share.
Directors Biographical details of the current directors are set out on page 19.
Sir Roy Gardner was appointed Senior Independent Director on 1 October 2005.
Denis Cassidy, Clive Grundy, Andrew Lynch and Alain Dupuis ceased to be directors on 14 February 2005, 29 July 2005, 28 September 2005 and 1 October 2005 respectively.
Details of the directors remuneration and interests in Compass Group shares are set out on pages 22 to 25.
Retirement and re-election of directors Peter Blackburn and Sven Kado retire from the Board by rotation.
Peter Cawdron, in accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, is subject to annual re-election.
Peter Blackburn, Sven Kado and Peter Cawdron are standing for re-election at the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
Sir Roy Gardner, who was appointed in the year, is standing for election at the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE at 11.00am on Friday 10 February 2006.
Summary financial statement This summary annual review and financial statement does not contain sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the results of the Group and state of affairs of the Company or of the Group, and of their policies and arrangements concerning directors' remuneration, as would be provided by the full annual financial statements and reports.
Members requiring more detailed information have the right to obtain, free of charge, a copy of the Companys last full financial statements and reports.
The Independent Auditors report on the full financial statements of the Group for the year ended 30 September 2005 is unqualified and does not contain any statement concerning inadequate accounting records or failure to obtain necessary information and explanations.
Members who wish to receive, free of charge, a copy of the full annual financial statements and reports for the year ended 30 September 2005 or who wish to receive full financial statements and reports in place of the summary financial statements for all future years should write to the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office, the address of which is shown on the inside back cover.
ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 COMPASS GROUP PLC 21 SUMMARY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board is committed to high standards of corporate Remuneration Committee governance.
For the year ended 30 September 2005, the The Committee comprises Peter Cawdron Chairman, Company complied with all the provisions of the Combined Sir Roy Gardner, Val Gooding, Sven Kado and Steve Lucas.
Code on Corporate Governance the Code with the exception The Committee met 5 times during the year.
The summary report because of the impending replacement of Sir Francis Mackay of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 22 to 25. by Sir Roy Gardner of the annual performance evaluation of the Chairman.
Nomination Committee The Committee comprises Sir Roy Gardner Chairman, Peter Board structure Blackburn, Peter Cawdron, Val Gooding and Sir Francis Mackay.
The Board currently consists of the Chairman, 6 independent The Committee met 5 times during the year.
non-executive directors and 2 executive directors.
Biographical details are set out on page 19.
The Committees primary responsibilities include: carrying out formal selection processes and making recommendations to the The Board meets regularly and has a formal schedule of Board on the appointment and reappointment of directors, making matters reserved for its decision.
Any directors wishing to take recommendations to the Board on the suitability of candidates for independent advice may do so at the Companys expense.
the role of Senior Independent Director and membership of the Appropriate training is available to all directors on appointment Audit and Remuneration Committees.
and on an ongoing basis as required.
The Committee met during the year to consider the appointment The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and the of a new Chairman.
The Board accepted the Committees Board has agreed their respective responsibilities.
The Chairman recommendation that Sir Roy Gardner be appointed as is responsible for the effective functioning of the Board.
The Senior Independent Director with the intention that he Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day management succeeds Sir Francis Mackay as Chairman by summer 2006. of the Group and is supported by an Executive Committee which normally meets monthly and comprises the executive directors Disclosure Committee and key senior managers.
The Committee comprises the Finance Director, the Company Secretary and certain senior managers.
The Committee meets as All of the non-executive directors are considered by the Board required to deal with matters concerning public announcements to be independent in character and judgement.
The Board is of and the Companys obligations to the UK Listing Authority.
the opinion that Peter Cawdron, notwithstanding that he has been a director for more than 9 years, is independent.
In accordance Relations with shareholders with the Code, Peter Cawdron will stand annually for re-election The Company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, with by shareholders.
the interim and preliminary final results.
The Chief Executive and the Finance Director give presentations of these results to Company Secretary institutional investors, analysts and the media.
They may also The Company Secretary, Tim Mason, is responsible for advising be accessed on the Companys website.
the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
The directors have access to the advice and services of the The Chief Executive, Finance and Senior Independent Directors Company Secretary.
meet regularly with institutional investors to discuss strategy and financial performance.
The Chairman and other non-executive Board Committees directors are available to meet with investors to discuss corporate Specific responsibilities have been delegated to Board governance issues.
These meetings facilitate an ongoing Committees described below.
understanding of the views and any concerns of the Companys major shareholders and they are reported to the Board.
Audit Committee The Committee comprises Steve Lucas Chairman, Peter Other than in exceptional circumstances all directors attend Blackburn and Sven Kado.
The Committee met 3 times during the Annual General Meeting and are available to answer the year.
There is normally a trading update and shareholders are given the opportunity to meet the directors The Committees primary responsibilities include: reviewing informally afterwards.
the Companys published financial statements and formal announcements relating to financial performance, reviewing The Company has a dedicated Investor Relations Department the effectiveness of the Companys internal financial controls and this is a primary point for contact with investors throughout and risk management systems, monitoring the effectiveness of the year.
the internal audit function, recommending the appointment and removal of the external auditors, and reviewing the Companys arrangements whereby employees may in confidence raise any concerns regarding possible wrongdoing.
The Committee reviews annually the effectiveness and independence of the external auditors and has developed a policy on the provision of services by the external auditors in order to safeguard their objectivity and independence.
COMPASS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 22 SUMMARY REMUNERATION COMMITTEES REPORT The Remuneration Committee the Committee is responsible Directors are currently able to invest up to 50% of any pre-tax for determining the remuneration and benefits of the Chairman, performance-related basic and enhanced bonus in Compass executive directors and certain senior executives of the Group.
If these shares are held for 3 years and the Below is a summary of its report in the Annual Report and executive director remains employed by the Group, the Company Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2005.
A copy of will release a number of additional Matching Shares.
Prior to the full report can be accessed on the Companys website at 2004 2005, these were available on a one-for-one basis.
2004 2005, Matching Shares may only be awarded if EPS targets are met at the end of the 3-year period.
Depending on the targets Remuneration policy met, between 50% and 100% of the one-for-one Matching The aims of the remuneration policy are that: Shares may be awarded.
the components of the Companys remuneration package Directors are eligible to receive a bonus for 2004 2005, of an continue to be aligned to the business strategy of creating average of 31% of salary, based on satisfaction of the targets shareholder value: for the year.
All executive directors have however agreed that there is a proper balance between the fixed and variable, and it would be inappropriate in the current climate to take up this long and short-term components of the remuneration package: opportunity and have indicated that they do not wish to receive the various targets for determining performance-related either the cash or share elements which might be due to compensation are linked to the Companys key business them.
For the year ending 30 September 2006, the executive drivers and objectives, and are easily measurable and directors have determined that they will not take up the eligibility regularly reviewed: opportunity to receive matching shares on any bonus payments.
the incentives are easily understood and accepted by shareholders and senior executives: and 3.
Long-term incentive plan and option plans the Companys remuneration policy and its various components i Long-term incentive plan LTIP Executive directors are in line with market practice.
are currently eligible to receive a maximum annual award of 100% of annual base salary, payable in shares, over a 3-year In determining the overall remuneration framework, the vesting period.
The release of shares to participants is based Committee maintains an active dialogue with shareholder on the Companys total shareholder return TSR over a 3-year representatives and monitors developments in best practice.
performance period relative to its peers.
For LTIP awards made In 2004 following consultation, the policy was thoroughly from 2000 to 2004, if the Companys performance is at least at reviewed and updated.
Following the 2005 year end, there was the median compared to its peers, between 40% and 100% of further shareholder consultation concerning remuneration for an award may vest proportionate to performance.
To ensure that directors interests are made from 2004 2005, the proportion of the award which will aligned with those of shareholders, executive directors are vest at median performance was reduced from 40% to 30%.
expected within 4 years of their appointment to build up and In addition, EPS has been used as a second performance maintain a personal shareholding in the Company of at least measure.
There is no performance retesting facility for awards 100% of annual base salary.
Components of executive directors remuneration Following consultation with shareholders, the Committee This comprises a mix of salary and performance-related proposes that from 2005 2006 the maximum award opportunity remuneration, as follows: under the LTIP should be increased from 100% to 200% of annual base salary.
The Committee further proposes that the 1.
Basic salary proportion of the award which will vest at threshold performance The last annual salary increase was in September 2004. be reduced from 30% to 25% of the award.
The performance The next review will take place in December 2005. conditions applying to 50% of any future award will be based solely on Compass Groups TSR with the remaining 50% based 2.
Annual incentive award solely on Group Free Cash Flow GFCF.
That proportion of any Executive directors are able to receive an annual bonus of up to award based on GFCF will vest dependent solely upon the 75% of basic salary based on the achievement of performance Companys cash flow target.
The GFCF target for awards targets set by the Committee and, if they perform considerably granted in 2005 2006 has not yet been set by the Committee in excess of these figures, an enhanced bonus of a further but will be announced in due course.
The Committee will have maximum 75% of salary 125% plus 125% for the Chief the right to review the target for awards granted in future years in Executive.
It was agreed that from 2006 the bonus opportunity line with business needs.
Neither the GFCF nor the TSR targets for the Chief Executive should be reduced to 75% of salary, will be retested.
plus a maximum 75% for overachievement in line with that of the other executive directors.
For the year ended 30 September 2005, the bonus was based on the achievement of targets for return on capital employed: operating cash flow: turnover growth: and earnings per share EPS.
For the year ending September 2006, the bonus will be based on the following key Group measures: profit before interest and tax: free cash flow: and turnover growth.
In addition, no bonus will be payable unless the Groups minimum profit before interest and tax target is achieved.
ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 COMPASS GROUP PLC 23 SUMMARY REMUNERATION COMMITTEES REPORT CONTINUED ii Share option plan It is intended that executive with Granada and Forte on both a funded and unfunded basis.
directors should in future be incentivised only through the LTIP.
Both are deferred pensions payable from age 60 which, From 2005 2006, they will not receive any further grants of share revalued up to 30 September 2005, amount to 25,010 pa options whilst they are eligible for LTIP awards, other than in and 26,790 pa respectively.
Service agreements iii Management share option plan Management Plan For All executive directors have service contracts with the Company.
executives and other high performing employees below executive Contracts may be terminated by the Company on 12 months director level, the Company operates the Management Plan.
written notice or by the executive director on 6 months written Options are granted at no lower than the market price on the day notice.
In the event of termination of employment of any director prior to grant on the basis of pre-grant performance.
During the by the Company, legally appropriate mitigation factors are always year, approximately 4,500 employees received option grants.
taken into account in determining any compensation that may A Phantom Management Plan is operated to provide a cash be payable.
There is no ability to trigger termination by an incentive to employees in jurisdictions where it is impracticable executive in circumstances of a change of control.
On early to operate the Management Plan due to tax or securities laws.
termination of their contracts, executive directors would normally be entitled to an amount equal to 1 years salary, annual bonus In line with best practice, the Company wishes to replace a and benefits, and compensation for loss of pension benefits.
pre-grant performance condition with a post-grant performance Under Sir Francis Mackays contract, the Company may at its condition for option grants from 2005 2006.
The performance discretion terminate his employment by the phased payment of condition would be the achievement of the GFCF over a 3-year 12 months salary only.
Both Sir Francis and Michael Bailey have performance period.
There would be no retesting facility.
indicated that they will retire during 2006.
Neither one will be paid Shareholders will be asked to approve such amendment to compensation on cessation of their employment.
Andrew Lynch the Management Plan rules at the Annual General Meeting.
remained in employment following his resignation from the Board.
Compensation was paid to Clive Grundy on termination of his iv Savings-related share option schemes Executive employment as shown in the Emoluments Table.
Alain Dupuis directors may participate in the Companys all-employee savingsresigned from the Board on 1 October 2005 and compensation related share plans on the same basis as other employees.
was also paid to him on termination of his employment.
Pensions Non-executive directors have letters of engagement and are Michael Bailey has an unfunded and Alain Dupuis has a partially appointed for an initial 3-year term, renewable at 3-year intervals.
The other directors participate in They receive fees only, based on market norms and the time Compass Groups UK Final Salary Pension Plan.
Andrew Martin commitment and duties required.
No compensation is payable participates in the Main Section, whilst Sir Francis Mackay, on termination of a non-executive directors appointment.
Andrew Lynch and Clive Grundy up to the point of his leaving, participate in the Senior Executive Members Section.
Sir Francis Total shareholder return Mackay ceased to accrue pension benefits from 1 October 2005.
The performance graph below shows the total shareholder return Clive Grundy is now drawing his benefits as a pensioner of the TSR for Compass Group over the last 5 financial years.
UK Plan and, in addition to his approved pension, he is also in receipt of an unfunded pension of 15,500 pa. 180 The Exec Section of the UK Plan is non-contributory.
Accrual is Compass Group at 1 30th of annual basic salary for each year of service, subject 160 FTSE 100 Index to Inland Revenue limits.
Normal retirement age is 60, with retirement from age 55 with no actuarial reduction.
For death in 140 service, a spouses pension of half of the prospective pension, 1 together with 12 2% of prospective pension per child 4 max and 120 a lump sum of 4 x basic salary is payable.
Following retirement, the pension increases at a rate of 5% or RPI if lower, with a 100 guaranteed minimum of 3% per annum.
The Main Section of the UK Plan requires a contribution of 5% of pensionable pay.
The 80 pension accrues at 1 60th of annual basic salary for each year of service, subject to Inland Revenue limits.
Normal retirement age 60 is 63, and an actuarial reduction of 4% per annum is applied on early retirement.
Should a director die in service, a spouses 40 1 pension of half of the prospective pension, together with 12 2% of prospective pension per child 4 max, and a lump sum of 3 x 20 basic salary is payable, subject to a maximum of 4 x the Earnings Cap.
Following retirement, the pension increases at a rate of 5% 0 or RPI if lower, with a guaranteed minimum of 3% per annum.
Sep Sep Sep Sep Sep 01 02 03 04 05 Andrew Martin also has an unfunded money purchase promise The TSR for Compass Group comprises that of Granada Compass plc from made by the Company on his behalf equating to 20% of basic 30 September 2000 to 1 February 2001 adjusted to reflect the demerger from salary being set aside per annum, and an additional pension Granada Compass plc on 2 February 2001 and that of Compass Group PLC from 2 February 2001. payable from age 63 accrued to 30 September 2005 of 2,361 pa.
He also has pension promises built up in respect of his service COMPASS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 24 SUMMARY REMUNERATION COMMITTEES REPORT CONTINUED Directors emoluments The aggregate remuneration of the individual directors of Compass Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2005 was as follows: Annual performancerelated Termination Salary Fee Benefits bonus payments 2005 2004 Name of director 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors in office throughout the year Sir Francis Mackay 500 46 546 546 Michael Bailey 977 121 1,098 1,044 Alain Dupuis 445 17 462 1,103 Andrew Martin 419 53 472 286 Former directors Clive Grundy resigned on 31 July 2005 # 371 37 695 1,103 564 Andrew Lynch resigned on 28 September 2005 ## 528 53 581 678 Non-executive Directors in office throughout the year Peter Blackburn 50 50 45 Peter Cawdron 90 90 82 Val Gooding 50 50 45 Sven Kado 53 53 48 Steve Lucas 59 59 11 Former directors Denis Cassidy resigned on 14 February 2005 19 19 45 Total 3,561 327 695 4,583 4,497 Highest paid director.
Alain Dupuis resigned from the Board on 1 October 2005, that is, after 30 September 2005 year end.
He was paid 430,000 as compensation for termination of his employment.
He was re-engaged on a 3-year fixed term contract at a salary of 200,000 pa.
There is no change to his bonus opportunity and benefits during the period.
A one-off pension contribution of 335,000 was paid for Mr Dupuis benefit at the start of the fixed term contract and no further pension provision will be made for Mr Dupuis during this period.
Andrew Martin was appointed as a director on 15 March 2004.
# In addition to the compensation payment set out above, Mr Grundy remains entitled to certain employee benefits for 12 months following termination.
He was credited with an additional years pensionable service in the Compass Group Final Salary Pension Plan.
Mr Grundy was permitted to retain certain share options and matching shares on the terms set out on page 25.
Mr Grundy has agreed to provide part-time consultancy services for a 6-month period for which he will be paid 100,000.
## Andrew Lynch remained in employment on his existing terms and conditions following his resignation from the Board.
In addition to his usual bonus opportunity, he is eligible in 2006 for a maximum bonus opportunity of 727,500 relating to the successful sale of SSP.
This comprises a payment of 200,000 payable on completion of the sale of SSP, or 31 March 2006 if earlier, and payment of up to 527,500 by reference to criteria relating to the sale of SSP.
He is excluded from participating in the 2005 2006 LTIP.
The figure shown for Sven Kado for each of 2004 and 2005 includes a fee of 4,000 in respect of his non-executive directorship of Compass Group Deutschland GmbH.
Steve Lucas was appointed as a non-executive director on 7 July 2004.
ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 COMPASS GROUP PLC 25 SUMMARY REMUNERATION COMMITTEES REPORT CONTINUED Beneficial share interests of directors Long-term Matching Ordinary Incentive Share 30 Sep 2005 30 Sep 2004 Shares Options Plan Awards Total Total Name of director Number Number Number Number Number Number Sir Francis Mackay 3,218,410 2,651,245 761,206 120,377 6,751,238 6,010,793 Michael Bailey 2,707,231 5,879,925 1,113,424 364,377 10,064,957 8,877,814 Alain Dupuis 187,512 2,435,000 415,703 96,293 3,134,508 3,558,787 Andrew Martin 30,027 1,018,532 142,449 1,191,008 683,559 Peter Blackburn 5,000 5,000 5,000 Peter Cawdron 24,200 24,200 24,200 Val Gooding 5,001 5,001 5,001 Sven Kado 12,500 12,500 12,500 Steve Lucas Total 6,189,881 11,984,702 2,432,782 581,047 21,188,412 19,177,654 Incentive plan gains for the year ended 30 September 2005 Long-term Deferred Incentive Share 30 Sep 2005 30 Sep 2004 Options Plan Awards Total Total Name of director 000 000 000 000 000 Sir Francis Mackay 732 732 Michael Bailey 455 Alain Dupuis 94 94 Andrew Martin Clive Grundy 87 87 269 Andrew Lynch 107 107 606 Total 288 732 1,020 1,330 LTIP awards held by Clive Grundy lapsed on cessation of his employment.
He is eligible to retain and exercise 2,283,332 share options and 94,879 matching share awards held by him in line with his termination agreement.
As Andrew Lynch remained in employment following his resignation, 2,927,957 share options, 498,047 LTIP awards and 116,093 matching share awards held by him have remained in force.
COMPASS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 26 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS STATEMENT TO THE MEMBERS OF COMPASS GROUP PLC We have examined the summary financial statement which comprises the summary directors report, the summary consolidated profit and loss account, the summary consolidated balance sheet, the summary consolidated cash flow information, the summary consolidated statement of recognised gains and losses and the summary remuneration committees report.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the annual review in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement with the full annual accounts, the directors report and the remuneration committees report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the annual review as described in the contents section, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with bulletin 1999 6 The Auditors Statement on the Summary Financial Statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Opinion In our opinion, the summary financial statement is consistent with the full annual accounts, the directors report and the remuneration committees report of Compass Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2005 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and the regulations made thereunder.
Certain minor reclassifications have been made to the previously reported geographical analysis of operations to align with the Groups current management structures.
ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 COMPASS GROUP PLC 31 NOTES TO THE SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2005 2004 2 Dividends Per share m Per share m Dividends on ordinary shares of 10p each: Interim 3.3p 71 3.1p 66 Proposed final 6.5p 140 6.2p 134 9.8p 211 9.3p 200 Average Average Attributable number Earnings Attributable number Earnings profit of shares per share profit of shares per share 2005 2005 2005 2004 2004 2004 3 Earnings per share m Millions Pence m Millions Pence Basic earnings per share 1 2,156 0.0 180 2,158 8.3 Effect of dilutive share options 2 0.0 7 0.0 Diluted earnings per share 1 2,158 0.0 180 2,165 8.3 Reconciliation of earnings per share to exclude goodwill amortisation and exceptional items Basic earnings per share 1 2,156 0.0 180 2,158 8.3 Effect of goodwill amortisation net of tax 269 12.6 275 12.8 Effect of goodwill impairment net of tax 95 4.4 Effect of exceptional items net of tax 46 2.1 Basic earnings per share excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 411 2,156 19.1 455 2,158 21.1 Diluted earnings per share 1 2,158 0.0 180 2,165 8.3 Effect of goodwill amortisation net of tax 269 12.5 275 12.7 Effect of goodwill impairment net of tax 95 4.4 Effect of exceptional items net of tax 46 2.1 Diluted earnings per share excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 411 2,158 19.0 455 2,165 21.0 Earnings per share excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items has been shown to disclose the impact of these on underlying earnings.
2005 2004 4 Reconciliation of movements in consolidated shareholders funds m m Profit for the financial year 1 180 Dividends 211 200 210 20 Currency translation differences 9 1 Tax in profit and loss reserve relating to currency translation 2 18 Issue of shares 1 10 Repurchase of shares 69 Purchase of own shares 1 Net reduction in shareholders funds 198 97 Opening shareholders funds 2,482 2,579 Closing shareholders funds 2,284 2,482 COMPASS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 32 NOTES TO THE SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5 UN contracting On 21 October, the Group announced that it had instructed Freshfields to conduct an investigation into the relationships between ESS, IHC and the United Nations.
Ernst & Young are assisting Freshfields in the investigation, reporting to the Chairman of the Compass Group PLC Audit Committee.
On 3 November, the Group announced that the investigation raised serious concerns as to whether, within ESS, there has been in connection with IHC and the UN, improper conduct and a failure to comply with the Group's statement of business principles which apply to all staff, whatever their seniority.
As a result, 3 employees have been dismissed.
The investigation is ongoing and, as yet, no final conclusions have been reached.
The Group will continue to co-operate voluntarily and fully as appropriate with the UN and US authorities, including the Office of the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York.
UN contracts account for less than 0.5% of the Groups turnover and profits.
No provision has been made in these financial statements in respect of these matters and it is not currently possible to quantify any potential liability which may arise.
The directors currently have no reason to believe that any potential liability that may arise would be material to the financial position of the Group.
FIVE YEAR SUMMARY 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 m m m m m Excluding exceptional items and goodwill amortisation Turnover 8,716 10,617 11,286 11,772 12,704 Total operating profit 676 805 797 775 711 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 583 654 661 645 581 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 456 479 492 493 447 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 pence pence pence pence pence Basic earnings per ordinary share 19.8 20.5 20.8 21.1 19.1 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 m m m m m After exceptional items and goodwill amortisation Turnover 8,716 10,617 11,286 11,772 12,704 Total operating profit 347 533 521 500 302 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 254 382 358 370 171 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 162 244 215 218 37 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 pence pence pence pence pence Basic earnings per ordinary share 6.6 10.0 8.3 8.3 0.0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 pence pence pence pence pence Net dividends per share 5.7 7.1 8.4 9.3 9.8 Earnings per share and dividends per share have been restated as if the post-demerger capital structure of Compass Group PLC had existed throughout the 5-year period.
ANNUAL REVIEW 2005 COMPASS GROUP PLC SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Number of Shares Individual Savings Accounts ISAs Number of Holders shares held held Compass Group has introduced corporate sponsored Maxi Shareholder analysis holders % Millions % and Mini ISAs.
The ISAs offer UK resident shareholders a Type of holder: simple low-cost and tax efficient way to invest in the Companys Individuals 71,99090.31155.3 shares.
Full details together with a form of application are Institutional & other investors 7,707 9.7 2,041 94.7 available from HSBC Trust Company UK Limited, Corporate Total 79,697 100.0 2,156 100.0 Personal Equity Plans & Individual Savings Accounts, 1st Floor, Courtwood House, Silver Street Head, Sheffield S1 2BH, Size of holding: telephone 0845 745 6123.
1 100 14,337 18.0 1 0.0 101 200 12,620 15.8 2 0.1 Share price information 201 500 19,459 24.4 6 0.3 The current price of Compass Group shares is available on Ceefax, 501 1,000 13,359 16.8 10 0.5 Teletext, FTCityline operated by the Financial Times, telephone 0906 843 3250 and Compass Groups corporate website.
It is particularly 50,001 100,000 222 0.3 16 0.8 useful for those shareholders that may wish to dispose of a small quantity of shares where the market value makes it uneconomic 100,001 500,000 382 0.5 90 4.2 to sell on a commission basis.
Each ADR is Total 79,697 100.0 2,156 100.0 equivalent to one Compass Group ordinary share and trades under the symbol CMPGY.
Further information can be obtained Registrars and transfer office from The Bank of New York, Investor Relations, PO Box 11258, All matters relating to the administration of shareholdings should Church Street Station, New York, NY 10286-1258, telephone: be directed to Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham within the US toll free 1-888 BNY-ADRs and from overseas Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, telephone within the 1 610 382 7836, email: shareowners bankofny.
@ Unsolicited mail Shareholders that receive duplicate mailings because they Compass Group is legally obliged to make its register of have multiple holdings can write to the Registrars requesting members available to the public.
As a consequence of this that the holdings be amalgamated.
By logging on to some shareholders might have received unsolicited mail.
com and selecting Are You a Shareholder?
Shareholders wishing to limit the amount of such mail should or Visit Shareholder Site, shareholders can access a range of write to the Mailing Preferences Service MPS, FREEPOST 22, online services including registering to receive future corporate London W1E 7EZ.
MPS will then notify the bodies that support documents by email.
Access to some areas is by investor code its service that you do not wish to receive unsolicited mail.
only and shareholders are advised to refer to their share certificates for details.
Registered office Compass Group PLC, Compass House, Guildford Street, Share dealing service Chertsey, Surrey KT16 9BQ, United Kingdom, telephone Compass Group has arranged share dealing services with Capita 44 0 1932 573 000, fax 44 0 1932 569 956.
Registrars which provides a telephone and online share dealing service for UK resident shareholders in Compass Group.
To deal, Corporate website shareholders must provide details of surname, postcode, date of Information about Compass Group is also available at birth and investor code set out in share certificates.
com service telephone 0870 458 4577 or visit www.
com Financial calendar Annual General Meeting 10 February 2006 Half year results announcement May Full year results announcement late November early December Dividend payments: Front cover image: Flushing Meadows, New York Interim August Final March Designed & produced by Carnegie Orr 44 0 20 7610 6140 Printed in the UK by St Ives Westerham Press It is our policy to produce the document constituting our annual and interim reports with a minimum impact on the environment.
