Shaftesbury BACK 05. qxd 21 12 05 14:06 Page 42 Explanation of special business to be dealt with at the 2006 annual general meeting Resolution 9 Authority to issue shares Resolution 10 Disapplication of pre-emption Resolution 11 Purchase of own shares rights This resolution authorises the Board, for a period This resolution, which will be proposed as a special of 15 months from 1st February 2006 or to end of This resolution, which will be proposed as a special resolution, seeks authority for the Directors to the next Annual General Meeting whichever is the resolution, seeks to disapply the pre-emption right purchase the Companys own shares.
The Directors earlier, to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate provisions of section 89 of the Act in respect of the are of the opinion that it would be advantageous for nominal value of 11,000,000, consisting of allotment of equity securities including a sale of the Company to be in a position to purchase its 44,000,000 ordinary shares of 25 pence each and treasury shares pursuant to rights issues and own shares through the London Stock Exchange, which represents approximately 33 per cent.
of the other pre-emptive issues or offers and in respect should market conditions and price justify such total ordinary share capital in issue on 1st December of other issues of equity securities including sales action.
The proposed authority would enable the 2005 the last practicable date prior to the publication of treasury shares for cash up to an aggregate Company to purchase up to a maximum of of this document.
The Company does not currently nominal value of 1,650,000, being approximately 13,200,000 Ordinary Shares, being 10 per cent.
of hold any shares as treasury shares within the 5 per cent.
of the issued ordinary share capital on the issued ordinary share capital on 1st December meaning of Section 162A of the Act Treasury 1st December 2005 the last practicable date prior 2005 the latest practicable date prior to the shares.
Save in respect of the issue of new to the publication of this document.
If approved by publication of this document, with a stated upper ordinary shares pursuant to the share incentive shareholders, this power will expire 15 months limit on the price payable which reflects the schemes, the Directors currently have no present after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial intention to allot relevant securities but the Directors the end of the next Annual General Meeting.
Purchases would only be made believe it to be in the interests of the Company for The Directors have no present intention of exercising after the most careful consideration, where the the Board to be granted this authority to enable the their authority pursuant to this disapplication, but, Directors believed that an increase in earnings or Board to take advantage of appropriate opportunities as in previous years, they consider it desirable that net assets per share would result and where which may arise in the future.
they have the flexibility to act in the best interests purchases were, in the opinion of the Directors, in of the Company when opportunities arise.
the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
The Directors consider that it is prudent to obtain the proposed authority, although the Board does not yet have the intention to implement this strategy.
The total number of options to subscribe for equity shares that are outstanding on 1st December 2005 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document is 4,272,179.
of the issued share capital at that date.
If the Company was to purchase the maximum number of ordinary shares permitted pursuant to the authority under this resolution, then these options would represent 3.59 per cent.
of the reduced issued share capital excluding any treasury shares.
78 Shaftesbury BACK 05. qxd 7 12 05 14:51 Page 43 The Act permits companies to hold shares acquired by way of market purchases as described above in treasury, rather than having to cancel them.
The Company would consider holding any of its own shares that it purchased pursuant to the authority conferred by this resolution as treasury shares.
This would give the Company the ability to re-issue treasury shares quickly and cost effectively, and would provide the Company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
No dividends would be paid on shares whilst held in treasury and no voting rights would attach to treasury shares.
Resolution 12 Political donations This resolution authorises the Board to make donations under Section 347C of the Act.
Any donations to political organisations or political expenditure by a company in excess of an aggregate of 5,000 must be authorised by the Companys shareholders.
There is no present intention to make cash donations to any political party.
The Company as part of its normal business activity may wish to have contact with political parties to ensure that they are aware of the key business issues affecting its business.
Under the Act, the definition of political expenditure is extremely wide and may be construed as covering such areas of the Companys normal business activities.
It is therefore considered appropriate that a resolution be put to shareholders in general terms.
The Company will disclose in its annual report, in compliance with the Act, any expenditure or donations in excess of 200 which is within the ambits of the definitions of the Act.
Resolution 13 Long Term Incentive Plan This resolution is fully explained in the accompanying circular.
