Shaftesbury BACK 05. qxd 7 12 05 14:51 Page 40 Notice of annual general meeting Important: If the securities have been sold or Special Business i. in connection with a rights issue or open offer transfered by the addressee of this Notice, this or other issue or offer to ordinary shareholders To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following document and other relevant documents should be other than the Company on the Company's resolutions as ordinary resolutions in the case of passed to the person through whom the sale or Register of Members on a fixed record date in resolutions 9, 12 and 13 and as special resolutions in transfer was effected for transmission to the proportion as nearly as may be to the respective the case of resolutions 10 and 11: purchaser or transferee.
numbers of Ordinary Shares of 25 pence each held by them subject to such exclusion or 9.
"THAT, in substitution for all previous authorities Notice Is Hereby Given that the Twentieth Annual other arrangement as the Directors may deem pursuant to section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 General Meeting of Shaftesbury PLC will be held at necessary or expedient in relation to fractional the ""Act"", which are hereby revoked, but without Pegasus House, 37 43 Sackville Street, London W1S entitlements or legal or practical problems prejudice to any allotment of securities pursuant 3DL, on Wednesday 1st February 2006 at under the laws of, or requirements of any thereto, the Directors be and they are hereby 12 noon for the following purposes: recognised regulatory body or any stock generally and unconditionally authorised in exchange, in any territory: and Ordinary Business accordance with section 80 of the Act to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant ii."
otherwise than pursuant to subparagraph i 1.
To receive and adopt the audited financial securities as defined in section 80 2 of the Act up above up to an aggregate nominal value of statements for the year ended 30th September to an aggregate nominal amount of 11,000,000 1,650,000 consisting of 6,600,000 Ordinary 2005, and the reports of the Directors and consisting of 44,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 25 Shares of 25 pence each, auditors.
pence each, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or and shall expire at the conclusion of the next 2.
To approve the report on Directors Remuneration Annual General Meeting of the Company or 15 months from 1st February 2006 if earlier save for the year ended 30th September 2005. that the Company may before such expiry make an 15 months from 1st February 2006 if earlier 3.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 30th save that the Company may before such expiry offer or agreement which would or might require September 2005 of 3.30p per Ordinary Share relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or payable on 7th February 2006 to holders of might require equity securities to be allotted and the Directors may allot relevant securities in Ordinary Shares registered at the close of pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the after such expiry and the Directors may allot business on 6th January 2006. equity securities in pursuance of such offer or authority conferred hereby had not expired.
agreement as if the power conferred hereby 4.
To re-elect J S Lane as a Director of the Company.
THAT, the Directors be and they are hereby had not expired.
This power is in substitution of empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Act to 5.
To re-elect S J Quayle as a Director of the Company.
all unexercised existing powers given for the allot equity securities within the meaning of purposes of section 95 1 of the Act.
To elect W G McQueen as a Director of the Company.
THAT the Company is hereby unconditionally and 7.
To re-appoint  LLP as a. for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by generally authorised to make market purchases auditors of the Company from the end of the Meeting Resolution 9: or as defined in section 163 3 of the Act of Ordinary until the end of the next general meeting at which Shares of 25 pence each in the capital of the b. by way of the sale of treasury shares within the financial statements are laid before the Company.
Company provided that: meaning of section 162A of the Act, for cash, 8.
To authorise the Directors to agree the i. the maximum number of Ordinary Shares of 25 as if, in either case, subsection 1 of section 89 of remuneration of the auditors.
pence each hereby authorised to be purchased the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided is 13,200,000 representing 10 per cent.
of the that this power shall be limited to the allotment of issued share capital of the Company as at 30th equity securities: September 2005 : ii.
the minimum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for each such Ordinary Share is 0.25: 76 Shaftesbury BACK 05. qxd 7 12 05 14:51 Page 41 6.
Biographical details of the Directors standing for election and iii.
the maximum price, exclusive of expenses, 13.
THAT the rules of the Shaftesbury Long Term re-election are set out on page 37 of the Annual Report.
which may be paid for each such Ordinary Share Incentive Plan the Plan referred to in the is an amount equal to not more than 5 per cent.
Chairman of the Boards letter to shareholders 7.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for above the average of the middle market quotations dated 7th December 2005 and which have been the annual general meeting to be held on 1st February 2006 for such share as derived from the Daily Official produced to the meeting initialled by the and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures List of the London Stock Exchange for the five Chairman for identification only be approved and described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or business days immediately preceding the day on the Directors be authorised to make such other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer which the share is contracted to be purchased: modifications to the Plan as they may consider to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will appropriate to take account of the requirements of iv.
unless previously renewed, varied or revoked, be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
the UK Listing Authority and best practice and to the authority hereby conferred shall expire at 8.
"In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the adopt the Plan as so modified and to do all such the conclusion of the next Annual General CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message acts and things as they may consider appropriate Meeting of the Company or 15 months from a ""CREST Proxy Instruction"" must be properly authenticated to implement the Plan."
in accordance with CRESTCo's specifications and must contain 1st February 2006 if earlier: and the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it v. the Company may make a contract to purchase By Order of the Board constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to its own shares under the authority hereby Brian Bickell Pegasus House the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in conferred prior to the expiry of such authority order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Secretary 37 43 Sackville Street which will or may be executed wholly or partly issuer's agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of 21st December 2005 London W1S 3DL proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this at the expiry of such authority, and may make a purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as purchase of its own shares in pursuance of any determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the such contract.
CREST Applications Host from which the issuer's agent is Notes: able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of proxy or proxies to attend and vote instead of him.
A proxy instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be 12.
THAT the Company and any company which is or need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy for communicated to the appointee through other means.
becomes a subsidiary of the Company during the use by members is enclosed.
Forms of proxy must be lodged CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors period to which this resolution relates be and is with the Registrar not less than 48 hours before the Meeting.
or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not hereby authorised pursuant to Section 347C of the 2.
Appointment of a proxy will not preclude a member from make available special procedures in CREST for any particular Act to make: attending and voting in person at the Meeting.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is i. donations to EU political organisations not 3.
The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those exceeding 100,000 and if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored shareholders registered in the Register of Members of the member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure Company as at 6.00 p. m. on 30th January 2006 shall be ii.
to incur EU political expenditure not exceeding that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting in respect of the 100,000: such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is number of shares registered in their name at that time.
transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular Changes to entries on the Register of Members after 6.00 p. m. provided that any such donations and or EU political time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, on 30th January 2006 shall be disregarded in determining the their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, expenditure made or incurred by the Company rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning does not exceed an aggregate of 100,000 in the practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Register of Directors' Interests in the Company kept period ending at the conclusion of the Company's under section 325 of the Act and copies of Directors contracts The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction next Annual General Meeting or 15 months from of service may be inspected at the registered office and place in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the 1st February 2006 if earlier: provided further that of AGM of the Company during normal business hours on Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. the Company shall not use the authority granted weekdays public holidays excepted from the date of this notice until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
The Vote Withheld option on the Form of Proxy is provided other than in continuation of its business activities to enable a member to abstain on any particular resolution.
and that the Company's policy of making no direct 5.
A copy of the draft rules of the Shaftesbury Long Term Incentive It should be noted that an abstention is not a vote in law and contributions to political parties shall remain Plan will be available for inspection at the registered office will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of and place of AGM of the Company during normal business unchanged.
votes for or against a particular resolution.
hours on weekdays public holidays excepted from the date of this notice until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
