Notice of Annual General Meeting continued The TSR of the comparator companies will be measured over Market purchases of ordinary shares: Resolution 14 Market purchases of C shares: Resolution 15 The Company has decided that it will appoint Ian Houghton, a xed three year period.
The TSR gures for each company will The Board considers that it would be in the best interests of the At the time of the disposal of Hodder Headline Limited by the the Company Secretary, to execute this transfer on behalf be averaged over a three month period preceding the beginning Company and its shareholders to renew for a further year the Company in September 2004, the Company created the C shares of the holders of all the deferred shares.
existing authority granted at the Annual General Meeting on 27 as a means of returning capital to its shareholders.
Most of these and the end of the Performance Period.
January 2005 to allow the Company to purchase its own ordinary C shares were either repurchased by the Company or converted A copy of this contract is available for inspection at the registered The Committee will review these conditions each year and, if shares in the market.
into deferred shares following a bonus dividend payment the ofce of the Company during normal business hours on any appropriate, consult with major shareholders before changing the Initial C Share Dividend on 27 October 2004.
However, weekday, except Saturdays and public holidays, until 2 February In considering the purchase by the Company of its own ordinary some C shares remain in issue as a number of shareholders performance targets to be set in relation to awards made in that 2006 and will also be available for inspection at the place of the year, to ensure that the targets are both realistic and stretching, shares, the directors will follow the procedures laid down in CA did not elect to have them repurchased or to receive the Initial AGM on 2 February 2006 for at least 15 minutes prior to and and will afford real incentives to enhanced performance of the 1985 and will take into account cash resources, capital C Share Dividend.
Company and growth in shareholder value.
requirements and the effect of any purchase on appropriate gearing levels.
They will only exercise the authority when satisfied The Board considers that it would be in the best interests of the The authority to enter into this contract will expire at the It is intended that, in this year only, awards under the L-TIP will that it is in the best interests of the Company to do so and when it Company and its shareholders to renew for a further year the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or on 1 May 2007, also be made within the period of 42 days immediately following would result in an increase in earnings per share.
existing authority granted at the Extraordinary General Meeting whichever is the earlier, although it is the Companys intention to the conclusion of the 2006 AGM.
on 23 September 2004 to allow the Company to purchase its own exercise this authority at the earliest possible opportunity.
The proposed authority would be limited to purchases of up to C shares in the market.
A copy of the L-TIP rules marked to show the amendment 18,095,163 ordinary shares, which is equal to approximately 10 indemnification of directors: Resolution 17 proposed to be made is available for inspection at the registered per cent of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 13 In considering any such purchase by the Company of its own C In 2004, the Companies Audit, Investigations and Community ofce of the Company during normal business hours on any October 2005, made through the London Stock Exchange at shares, the directors will take into account cash resources, capital Enterprise Act 2004 was passed by Parliament.
This Act, among prices not exceeding the higher of 105 per cent of the average of requirements and the effect of any purchase on appropriate weekday, except Saturdays and public holidays, until 2 February other things, extended the range of the indemnity which 2006 and will also be available for inspection at the place of the the middle market quotations as derived from the London Stock gearing levels.
They will only exercise the authority when satisfied companies are permitted to give to directors.
The proposed AGM on 2 February 2006 for at least 15 minutes prior to and Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business days before each that it is in the best interests of the Company to do so.
amendments to the Articles of Association of the Company bring during the meeting.
purchase, the price of the last independent trade in the shares on the Articles up to date with this new law.
It is the Companys the London Stock Exchange at the time of the purchase and the The proposed authority would permit purchases of any or all of intention to indemnify its directors subject to these provisions.
Authority to allot shares: Resolution 12 highest current independent bid for the Companys ordinary the C shares at prices not exceeding the amount to which the Under Section 80 of CA 1985 the directors of a company may only shares on the London Stock Exchange at the time of the purchase.
holder of a C share would be entitled were the Company to be Recommendation allot unissued shares if authorised to do so by the shareholders in wound up on the date of purchase being the nominal value of The directors consider that each of the proposals detailed in this The directors wish to emphasise that the maximum number of 85p plus any accrued dividend.
This Resolution, if passed, will authorise the Notice of Meeting will be of benefit to and in the best interests of directors to allot unissued shares up to an aggregate nominal ordinary shares and the price range are stated merely for the the Company and the shareholders as a whole.
The directors amount of 1,303,149, representing approximately one-third of purposes of compliance with statutory and the UK Listing The directors wish to emphasise that the maximum number of C intend to vote in favour of all Resolutions in respect of their own the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 13 October Authority requirements in seeking this authority and should not shares and the price range are stated merely for the purposes of beneficial holdings of ordinary shares in the Company and be taken as any representation of the terms upon which the compliance with statutory requirements in seeking this authority 2005.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM unanimously recommend other shareholders to do likewise.
of the Company or on 1 May 2007, whichever is the earlier.
and should not be taken as any representation of the terms upon Although the directors have no present intention of exercising which the Company may make purchases.
Notes this authority, except for the purposes of allotting shares under As at 30 September 2005, being the last practicable date prior to 1.
Ordinary shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM are publication of this Notice, there were outstanding 13,845,907 The authority will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the the Companys employee share schemes, it is considered prudent entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a to maintain the exibility it provides.
options to subscribe for ordinary shares, representing 7.7 per cent Company or on 1 May 2007, whichever is the earlier.
poll, vote on their behalf.
of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
A Form of Proxy is enclosed for the use of ordinary shareholders Disapplication of pre-emption rights: Resolution 13 was exercised in full, the options would represent 8.5 per cent of Off-market purchase of deferred shares: Resolution 16 unable to attend the meeting.
Before completing the form the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
On 27 October 2004, those C shares in respect of which the If shares are allotted for cash using the authority given by shareholders should read the guidance notes below.
Resolution 12, Section 89 of CA 1985 requires that those shares Initial C Share Dividend was paid were converted into deferred 3.
Any member with more than one ordinary shareholding are offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to the Prior to 1 December 2003, any shares purchased in this way would shares.
Under Article 3B G f of the Companys Articles of registered in his her name should receive only one copy of number of shares they already hold.
This Resolution would renew have been cancelled and the number of shares in issue reduced Association, the Company has authority to appoint any person to the annual report and one Form of Proxy.
The Form of Proxy accordingly.
However, the Companies Acquisition of Own execute on behalf of the holders of the deferred shares a transfer for a further year, pursuant to Section 95 of CA 1985, the will be valid in respect of all his her holdings.
authority of the directors to allot equity securities for cash without Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 have altered the to the Company of all the deferred shares for a total of 1p.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerticated Securities first offering them to existing shareholders.
The authority other position to permit shares purchased by the Company out of However, this Article is subject to CA 1985, and Section 164 CA Regulations 2001, the Company species that only those than in relation to a rights issue would be limited to the issue of distributable profits to be held as Treasury Shares which may be 1985 requires that the terms of the contract, which provides for ordinary shareholders registered in the register of members cancelled, sold for cash or transferred for the purposes of the the purchase of the entire class of deferred shares for a total equity securities up to a maximum nominal amount of 195,472, of the Company as at 6.00pm on 31 January 2006 shall be which is equal to approximately 5 per cent of the Companys Companys employee share schemes.
The Company currently of 1p by the Company, be approved by special resolution.
entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the issued ordinary share capital as at 13 October 2005, and will holds no Treasury Shares, and it is not intended that any shares number of shares registered in their names at that time.
expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or on purchased pursuant to this authority will be held in treasury.
Changes to the register of members after 6.00pm on 1 May 2007, whichever is the earlier.
31 January 2006 shall be disregarded in determining the The authority will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the right of any person to attend and vote at the AGM.
Holders Company or on 1 May 2007, whichever is the earlier.
of preference shares, loan stock and loan notes are not entitled to attend and vote at the meeting unless they also hold ordinary shares.
82 WH Smith PLC 83 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Company Information Retail News Distribution 5.
The register of directors interests in the share capital of the 5.
A corporation should execute the Form of Proxy under its WH Smith PLC High Street Retail WHSmith News Company, a copy of the L-TIP rules marked to show the common seal or otherwise in accordance with Section 36A 3rd Floor Greenbridge Road Wakeeld House amendment proposed by Resolution 11 and the draft contract of CA 1985 or by signature on its behalf by a duly authorised 180 Wardour Street Swindon, SN3 3LD Pipers Way referred to in Resolution 16 are available for inspection at the officer or attorney whose power of attorney or other authority London, W1F 8FY United Kingdom Swindon, SN3 1RF registered ofce of the Company during normal business should be returned with the Form of Proxy.
United Kingdom United Kingdom hours on any weekday, except Saturdays and public holidays, 6.
Alternatively, you can register the appointment of a proxy Telephone until 2 February 2006 and at the place of the AGM on electronically by logging onto the website www.
co. uk, Telephone 01793 616161 Telephone 2 February 2006 for at least 15 minutes prior to and during where full details of the procedure are given.
to have your Form of Proxy to hand when you log on as it Facsimile 01793 562560 Facsimile 6.
Shareholders and any proxies or representatives they has information required in the process.
Electronic proxy 020 7851 8847 Website 01793 421438 appoint agree, by attending the meeting, that they are voting instructions must be received no later than 11.30am Website www.
co. uk Website expressly requesting and that they are willing to receive any on Tuesday 31 January 2006. www.
co. uk communications including communications relating to the 7.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies WHSmith Customer Service www.
co. uk Companys securities made at the meeting.
through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service Investor Relations Freepost SCE 4410 may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Telephone Swindon, SN3 3XS Media Relations Guidance notes for completion of Form of Proxy and electronic manual.
All messages relating to the appointment of a proxy 020 7851 8820 United Kingdom Telephone proxy voting or an instruction to a previously appointed proxy, which 01793 563516 1.
If you are unable to attend the AGM and wish to appoint a are to be transmitted through CREST, must be received by Media Relations Telephone proxy to attend and, on a poll, vote on your behalf, please Lloyds TSB Registrars CREST participant ID 7RA01 no Telephone 0870 444 6444 Customer Service complete the enclosed Form of Proxy and return it, together later than 11.30am on 31 January 2006, or, if the meeting 020 7851 8850 Telephone with any power of attorney or other authority or a duly is adjourned, not less than 48 hours before the time xed Email 01793 563980 certied copy of such power or authority under which it is for the adjourned meeting.
relations executed, to the Companys Registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars, Website @whsmith.
co. uk Customer Service so as to be received no later than 11.30am on Tuesday A map of the location of the CBI Conference Centre, the venue www.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the for the AGM, is shown below.
Please note that coffee and tea will Media Relations Telephone Company and the appointment of a proxy will not prevent be served before the meeting.
Telephone 0870 7259010 you from attending and voting in person.
You can appoint the Chairman of the Meeting, or any other person, as your proxy.
If you wish to appoint someone other Travel Retail Russell than the Chairman, cross out the words the Chairman of the Square Montague Street 3rd Floor Gardens Goodge Street Meeting or on the Form of Proxy and insert the name of your 180 Wardour Street Goodge Street proxy in the box provided.
You can instruct your proxy how to vote on each resolution United Kingdom Museum Adeline on which a poll is taken by placing an X in the For, Against Place or Vote withheld boxes, as appropriate.
If you do not indicate P Telephone Great Russell Street on the Form of Proxy how your proxy should vote, he she 020 7851 8800 can exercise his her discretion as to whether, and if so how, Facsimile Bloomsbury Way Tottenham Court Road he she votes on each resolution, as he she will do in respect 020 7851 8847 Oxford Street New Oxford Street of any other business which may properly come before Website the meeting.
You must sign and date the Form of Proxy in the boxes P provided.
In the case of joint shareholders, only one need sign Media Relations St. Giles High Street the Form of Proxy.
The vote of the senior joint shareholder Telephone will be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint 020 7851 8850 shareholders.
For this purpose, seniority will be determined by the order in which the names of the shareholders appear in the register of members in respect of the joint shareholding.
If the Form of Proxy is signed by someone else on behalf of the registered holder s, the appropriate power of attorney or other authority or a duly certied copy of such power or authority under which it is executed must be returned with the Form of Proxy.
This annual report is printed on paper made using at least 50% TCF pulps from sustainable sources.
The paper is biodegradeable and produced in full accordance with the environmental laws in the country of manufacture.
Printed by a sustainable development company accredited with ISO14001 and utilising vegetable oil based inks.
84 WH Smith PLC 85 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Shaftesbury Avenue High Holborn Charing Cross Road Tottenham Court Road Leicester Square St Giles Monmouth Street Endell Street Bloomsbury Street Drury Lane Museum St Russell Square Kingsway Southampton Row
