Shareholder reporting Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Workspace Group PLC 49 Shareholder reporting We believe transparent communication will help build stronger relationships with our shareholders.
Additional information In this section Acquisitions and disposals 2004 05 Corporate governance Investment properties owned by the Group Board and committee reports Ten years of growth 1996-2005 Directors remuneration report Directors, officers and advisers Notice of Annual General Meeting Publication index Corporate governance Workspace Group has always aimed to operate with high Overall compliance with the Combined Code standards of corporate governance and wherever possible Except in one respect, the directors believe that the Company comply with the Combined Code.
It also believes that good has fully complied with the Combined Code during and after governance is assisted by transparent detailed reporting.
The single exception concerns the composition of the Board.
The Group has four executive The Group believes that strong and sustainable long term directors, three independent non-executive directors, and economic performance is aided by compliance with corporate a non-executive chairman.
The Chairman is not regarded as social responsibility CSR best practice and open reporting of independent under the Combined Code even though, prior to its activities.
In this, the Group publishes a range of material his appointment in November 2002, he had no relationship with both on its website and in hard copy for details see the inside the Group.
During the year the Group entered the FTSE 250. back cover : The Code advises that for FTSE 250 companies the number of independent non-executives should at least equal the number 1.
A self-assessment checklist identifying compliance with of executive directors.
For such compliance by Workspace, this each of the detailed requirements of the Combined Code: would mean either reducing the number of executive directors or 2.
Quarterly Reports: appointing another independent non-executive director.
A detailed examination of risks: selection process for non-executive directors described below 4.
An annual CSR review and that the Board itself regards the Chairman as independent, the Board feels the balance of skills and experience of the four The above material is complementary to this statement of non-executive directors as shown below is right for the Company.
compliance with the Combined Code which the Company is Further, the Board operates on a consensus basis with key required to publish.
decisions requiring the support of the full Board, ensuring that all viewpoints are properly addressed.
At this stage, therefore, the Board does not intend to appoint a further non-executive director.
Board and committee reports These may be found in the section on page 53.
