Financial statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Workspace Group PLC 35 Accounting policies for the year ended 31 March 2005 a Basis of consolidation and accounting The depreciation or amortisation which would, had the The Group financial statements include those of the provisions of the Act been followed, have reduced profit Company and its subsidiary undertakings to 31 March 2005. for the year is only one of the factors reflected in the The financial statements have been prepared under the annual valuation and the amount attributable to this factor historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of cannot reasonably be separately identified or quantified.
investment properties in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards in the UK.
Investment property acquisitions are not recognised until Compliance with SSAP 19 Accounting for Investment Properties the contract is unconditional.
The associated purchase requires departure from the requirements of the Companies costs are capitalised.
Act 1985 relating to depreciation and amortisation and an explanation of the departure is given in note e below.
Investment properties undergoing improvement works are included in the Balance Sheet at valuation after The Company has adopted UITF Abstract 38 accounting for ESOP accounting for interest and other outgoings.
For this trusts in these financial statements.
The adoption of this Abstract purpose, the amount of interest capitalised is calculated by represents a change in accounting policy and the comparative reference to the actual interest rate payable on borrowings figures have been restated accordingly.
Investment in own shares for development purposes or, as regards developments is now shown as a deduction from shareholders funds.
financed out of general funds, by reference to the average rate paid on funding the assets employed by the Company.
b Turnover Turnover comprises rental income and other sums receivable Grants received in respect of improvements to investment from occupiers of investment properties including insurance properties are recognised when received and are taken into charges, service charges, other recoverable costs, supplies of account in determining the surplus or deficit on revaluation.
utilities and any premia associated with tenancies together with commissions, fees and other sundry income.
ii Other fixed assets Other fixed assets are stated at cost less depreciation.
c Rent payable and direct costs Rent payable and direct costs comprise ground rent payable f Depreciation of other fixed assets and other property outgoings directly attributable to investment Depreciation is provided on other fixed assets on a straight line properties.
basis over their useful lives as follows: d Disposals Freehold property 2% Profits are taken on the completion of the sale of investment Equipment and fixtures 12.5%-25% properties.
Where any aspect of a consideration is conditional Motor vehicles 25% then the profit associated with that conditional item is deferred.
g Taxation e Tangible assets Corporation tax payable is provided on taxable profits at the Tangible assets comprise investment properties including current rate.
associated plant and equipment, fixed asset freehold property, office fixtures and fittings, and motor vehicles.
On disposal of an investment property the element of tax relating to the profit in the year is charged to the profit and loss account i Investment properties and the element relating to earlier revaluation surpluses is In accordance with SSAP 19, investment properties are included in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
revalued at least annually and stated at valuation except for short leasehold assets which are held at 1 and the Deferred tax assets and liabilities arise from timing differences aggregate surplus or deficit is transferred to revaluation between the recognition of gains and losses in the financial reserve.
No provision is made for depreciation of investment statements and their recognition in a tax computation.
freehold properties or for amortisation of investment leasehold properties held on leases having more than 20 In accordance with FRS 19 deferred tax has been recognised years unexpired.
This departure from the requirements of at the anticipated rate of tax in respect of all timing differences the Companies Act 1985, which requires all properties to which have originated, but not reversed, by the balance sheet be depreciated, is, in the opinion of the directors, necessary date, except that deferred tax has not been recognised on any for the financial statements to show a true and fair view in potential capital gain where a binding sale commitment is not accordance with applicable accounting standards.
36 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Financial statements Accounting policies continued g Taxation continued FRS 19 requires inclusion of a provision for all capital allowances and industrial buildings allowances claimed which could reverse following a future disposal of property.
The Group does not discount deferred tax assets and liabilities.
h Pensions The cost of contributions in respect of defined contribution schemes and related benefits is charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
i Financing Policies with regard to borrowings, interest rate hedging and the treatment of financial instruments are described in note 16 to the financial statements.
Costs associated with the raising of finance and hedging of interest rates are capitalised, amortised over the life of the facility or instrument and charged as part of interest costs.
j Operating leases Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the length of the lease.
k Employee share option schemes Incentives are provided to employees under share option schemes.
The Company has established an Employee Share Option Trust ESOT to satisfy part of its obligation to provide shares when employees exercise their options.
The Company provides funding to the ESOT to purchase these shares.
Any excess of the purchase price of the shares by the ESOT above the exercise price of the options is charged to the profit and loss account over the period of service in respect of which the options are granted.
In respect of other share option grants, share options, when exercised, are accounted for as share issues at the exercise price.
