Shareholder reporting Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Workspace Group PLC 63 Notice of Annual General Meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Nineteenth Annual General 9.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Meeting of Workspace Group PLC will be held at the Companys resolution as a special resolution, namely: head office at Magenta House, 85 Whitechapel Road, London THAT: E1 1DU on Tuesday 26 July 2005 at 11.30am for the following a the directors be and they are hereby empowered, pursuant purposes: to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act : i subject to the passing of the resolution numbered 8 set As ordinary business: out in the notice of this meeting, to allot equity securities 1.
To receive and adopt the Companys accounts for the pursuant to the authority given in accordance with section financial year ended 31 March 2005 and the reports of 80 of the Act by the said resolution number 8: and the directors and the Auditors thereon.
ii to transfer equity securities which are held by the 2.
To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares of Company in treasury: 3,721,014 2.28p per share in respect of the year ended as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such 31 March 2005, payable on 2 August 2005 to shareholders allotment or transfer, provided that this power shall be on the register on 1 July 2005. limited to the allotment of equity securities: 3.
To re-elect as a director H Platt who retires by rotation A in connection with or the subject of an offer or invitation, and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
open for acceptance for a period fixed by the directors, 4.
To re-elect as a director J P Marples who retires by rotation to holders of ordinary shares in the Company, to holders and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
of 11% Convertible Unsecured Loan Stock 2011 of the 5.
To re-elect as a director C J Pieroni who retires by rotation Company and to holders of such other equity securities and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
of the Company as the directors may determine in 6.
To consider, and if thought fit, approve the report on proportion as nearly as may be to their respective directors remuneration contained within the report and holdings on a record date fixed by the directors or accounts for the year ended 31 March 2005. where applicable in accordance with the rights for the 7.
To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors time being attached to such stock or equity securities of the Company for the ensuing year and to authorise the including equity securities which, in connection with directors to fix their remuneration.
such offer or invitation, are the subject of such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may As special business: deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional 8.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following entitlements or with legal or practical problems under resolution as an ordinary resolution, namely: the laws of, or the requirements of any regulatory body THAT: or any stock exchange in any territory or otherwise a the directors be and they are hereby generally and howsoever : unconditionally authorised, in accordance with section 80 B in connection with the terms of any share option scheme of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, to exercise all the for the time being operated by the Company and any powers of the Company to allot relevant securities, up to an shares acquired or held by the Company in treasury may aggregate nominal amount of 5,627,988 during the period be transferred in satisfaction of the exercise of options commencing on the date of the passing of this resolution under any such scheme : and and expiring on 25 July 2010 both dates inclusive, but so C otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraphs A or B that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers above, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 844,198: or agreements before the expiry of this authority which and shall expire on 25 July 2010, except that the Company would or might require relevant securities to be allotted may before such expiry make offers or agreements which after such expiry and notwithstanding such expiry the would or might require equity securities to be allotted after directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such expiry and notwithstanding such expiry the directors such offers or agreements: may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offers or b all authorities previously conferred under section 80 of agreements: the Act be and they are hereby revoked, provided that b all powers previously conferred under section 95 of the such revocation shall not have retrospective effect: and Act be and they are hereby revoked, provided that such c words and expressions defined in or for the purposes of revocation shall not have retrospective effect: and Part IV of the Act shall bear the same meanings in this c words and expressions defined in or for the purposes of resolution.
Part IV of the Act shall bear the same meanings in this resolution.
64 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Shareholder reporting 10.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Notes 1.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, resolution as a special resolution, namely: only those shareholders in the register of members of the Company 48 hours THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and before the time for which the Meeting is called shall be entitled to attend and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 166 of vote or to be represented at the Meeting in respect of the shares registered in the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after 48 hours before the time for which the Meeting is called shall be disregarded within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act of ordinary in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the Meeting.
shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary 2.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the time Shares on such terms and in such manner as the directors fixed for the original meeting, the above specified time will also apply for the may from time to time determine, provided that: purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and a the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
If, however, the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period to be acquired is 16,883,966: then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register b the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share of members not less than 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned is 10p: meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at any time c the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share specified in that notice.
A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the above Meeting is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote in his or her market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from place.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five 4.
To be valid, a form of proxy for use at the Meeting and the power of attorney business days immediately preceding the day on which that or other authority if any under which it is signed, or a copy of such authority Ordinary Share is contracted to be purchased: certified notarially, must be signed and lodged with the Companys registrars, Computershare Services PLC PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, d the minimum and maximum prices per Ordinary Share Bristol BS99 7NH not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the referred to in sub-paragraphs b and c of this resolution Meeting or an adjourned meeting.
are in each case exclusive of any expenses payable by the 5.
A form of proxy is provided with this notice.
Completion and return of such Company: proxy will not preclude a member from attending and voting in person.
The directors service contracts and the register of directors interests in e the authority conferred by this resolution shall expire on shares and the rules of the long term bonus incentive scheme are available 25 July 2006, or at the conclusion of the Annual General for inspection at the Companys registered office and will be available for Meeting of the Company to be held in 2006, if earlier, unless inspection during usual business hours on any week day Saturday and such authority is varied, revoked or renewed prior to such Sunday excluded at the place of the Meeting from 15 minutes prior to the time by the Company in general meeting by special commencement of the Meeting until the conclusion thereof.
resolution: and f the Company may enter into a contract to purchase Ordinary Shares under the authority conferred by this resolution prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be completed wholly or partly after expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares in pursuance of any such contract.
By Order of the Board R M Taylor Secretary 10 June 2005 Registered Office Magenta House 85 Whitechapel Road London E1 1DU
