Shareholder reporting Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Workspace Group PLC 53 Board and committee reports Board of directors All directors have induction training on joining the Board, The normal Board complement of the Company comprises including briefings on the Companys business and visits to four executive directors a Chief Executive, a Finance Director, estates.
Resources are provided for the continued training an Operations Director and a Property Director, whose and development of all directors.
responsibilities are described on page 15 and four non-executive directors, three of whom are independent of Board sub-committee and executive board responsibilities management under the 2003 Code and free from any personal The Board retains full and effective control over the Groups business or other relationship with the Group.
It has reserved a number of matters for its exclusive non-executive director is the Chairman.
These include but are not restricted to the establishment and constitution of Board Committees, As with all Board appointments, the non-executives have been identification of strategic objectives, approval of business plans, recruited through external search advisers by the Nominations budgets and financial reports, acquisition of properties valued Committee, each bringing a complementary range of skills and 5m or more and significant capital projects, provision of experience to the Board.
Mr Hales, as Chairman, is not regarded guarantees and treasury arrangements, stock issuance and as independent under the terms of the 2003 Combined Code.
More routine day-to-day matters Mr Hales brings an extensive background as a former Chief are delegated by the Board to an Executive Board comprising Executive of a FTSE 100 Company, non-executive experience the executive directors.
in various companies as well as expertise in marketing and brand development, and in managing a fide-centralised The Board has established Remuneration and Audit Committees, property portfolio.
Mr J Bywater is the most recently appointed each of which consists exclusively of the three independent non-executive director 8 June 2004 and has extensive direct non-executive directors.
The Nominations Committee is property and development expertise, as well as experience in chaired by Mr Hales, the Chairman of the Company and the intensive management of retail centres.
Mr B Cragg joined includes the three other non-executive directors.
He has a wide general management of Reference of these committees are available from the experience.
However, as a Chartered Accountant, again with Company Secretary or may be accessed through the Investor FTSE 100 background, he was recruited as Chairman of the Relations area of the Groups website see the inside back cover.
It is in the Companys policy to have at least The Chairmen of the Board Committees will be attending the one non-executive director who is a member of a recognised Companys Annual General Meeting and will be available to accounting body on the Groups Audit Committee.
Finally, answer questions from shareholders.
Dr C Pieroni is the longest serving non-executive director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and designated The Board has nominated directors with specific responsibilities Senior Independent Director.
At the time of appointment, among to key business areas.
These extend to SEE, health and safety, other skills, he was recruited to provide both analytical property environmental, staff equal opportunities, remuneration, and economic background experience to the Board, as well training and development, customers and suppliers, community as his experience in reviewing remuneration and rewards.
These nominated directors The normal full term for a non-executive director is six years, report regularly to the Board.
and he will have completed this next year.
The full Board of directors meets on a fixed bi-monthly All directors have written contracts and in the case of nonfrequency with further ad-hoc meetings as necessary.
Regular executive directors these specify those corporate matters that quarterly meetings are held of the Audit Committee, whilst are reserved for decision by the full Board, together with the the Remuneration Committee has at least four fixed meetings rights of individual directors to seek independent professional a year.
The following table shows the number of scheduled advice and services paid for by the Company.
Committees of Board and Committee Meetings held in 2004 05 and the number the Board share these rights of access to independent advice attended by the respective members.
In addition to these formal also.
All directors also have access to the advice and services meetings, directors meet alone and with advisers to conduct the of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for business of these committees as required.
ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
Both the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a Board matter.
Executive directors have one-year rolling contracts of employment whilst non-executive directors are appointed by the full Board for a contract term not exceeding three years.
Details of the directors contract terms are given on page 62.
54 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Shareholder reporting Board Audit Nominations Remuneration Number held 64 3 4 Number attended: A Hales 6 3 H Platt 6 M Carragher 6 J P Marples 6 R M Taylor 6 J Bywater 33 1 2 B Cragg 64 3 4 C Pieroni 64 3 4 Indicates not a member of that Committee.
Mr Bywater joined the Board and its Committees during the year.
Chairman and Chief Executive The chairmanship of the Company is drawn from the non-executive directors.
There are clearly defined roles for the Chairman and Chief Executive.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, securing its effectiveness, setting its agenda, ensuring compliance with the Groups strategy and that it is regularly reviewed.
He is not involved in an executive capacity in any of the Groups activities.
The effectiveness of the Chairman is reviewed by the Board annually.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the delivery of the strategic and financial objectives.
Company Secretary All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Report of the Remuneration Committee The Board is advised in this area by a Remuneration Committee comprised wholly of independent non-executive directors of the Company Dr C J Pieroni Committee Chairman : Mr J Bywater and Mr B Cragg.
The Chairman of the Company A J Hales and Chief Executive H Platt are invited as appropriate to attend meetings of the Committee but play no part in discussions concerning their own packages.
The Committee is required annually to consider and review all aspects of the executive directors employment, performance and remuneration and the Companys policies on these matters and to make recommendations to the full Board.
The Committee also examines and discusses with executive directors how policies here are aligned with human resources policies in the Company as a whole, and particularly those for senior management outside the Board.
Responsibility in these areas rests with the executive directors and a separate report on this is given on page 13.
The Committee does not make recommendations on the remuneration of non-executive directors, which is a matter reserved solely for the full Board.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available at the Groups website see the inside back cover.
The Remuneration Committee consults with its human resources adviser, John Miller, about its proposals where appropriate.
Independent professional advice is taken from time to time from Investment Property Databank IPD, KPMG, Norton Rose and other consultants appointed by the Committee in order to carry out its duties.
The Group subscribes to the Monks Partnership an advisory service of  for the provision of salary survey information on senior executives.
The remuneration policy for the Board is considered both in the wider context of the market and in terms of the remuneration structure operated within the Group.
Mr Miller is retained by the Company to provide advice on human resources matters on a Company-wide basis.
IPD has benchmarked the performance of the Groups property portfolio for more than 10 years.
Norton Rose, as the Groups legal adviser, provides services both in the context of transactions and wider commercial matters.
KPMG and Monks Partnership provide no other service, to the Group.
All consultant advisers are considered by the Committee to be independent.
The report on directors remuneration may be found on page 57.
C J Pieroni Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 10 June 2005 Shareholder reporting Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Workspace Group PLC 55 Report of the Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee is responsible for the selection and appointment of all directors, and for taking an overview of the general staffing and management of the business including succession planning.
All appointments in the Group are open to internal candidates as well as being subject to external recruitment.
In this manner, the Group can, whilst offering staff the opportunity for progression, ensure that where no natural internal candidates present themselves positions are covered by quality candidates.
These principles apply to senior management and Board appointments also.
However, it is a key objective of the Company that each director should have one or more members of staff whose skills and abilities could make them suitable for progression over time to the Board.
During the year the Committee recommended to the Board the appointment of John Bywater as non-executive director.
In making this appointment and in line with Company policy, assistance was obtained from an executive search agency specialising in this field.
Candidates were short listed and interviewed by the Nominations Committee and the Chief Executive.
Candidates for final selection meet with other members of the Board and are introduced to the Groups business before a final selection and appointment is made.
The Committee reviewed the proposed re-appointment of Messrs Platt and Marples and Dr Pieroni and recommended their re-appointment to the Board.
In addition, during the year the Committee looked at succession, leadership and continuing organisation and development.
This showed that the Group is resilient in the case of any single executive departure with adequate short term cover in all positions.
Over time, and with new business challenges, particularly in the programme to add value through the selective development of the Groups properties, the Committee recognises the need to keep the Groups structure under review, and to recruit new senior managers with the appropriate skills.
This will continue to be considered as the Company develops.
A J Hales Chairman of the Nominations Committee 10 June 2005 56 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Shareholder reporting Report of the Audit Committee The Company has an established framework of controls which, The Audit Committee, chaired by Mr B Cragg, a Chartered inter alia, include: Accountant, meets at least quarterly, with the external auditors, Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director in attendance a Financial reporting by invitation.
At least twice a year, the external auditors attend There is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual part of the Audit Committee meeting without the presence of business plan approved by the Board.
Operating results and management for confidential and independent discussions and cash flows are reported monthly and compared with budget.
have direct access to the Chairman of the Committee at their Forecasts are prepared regularly throughout the year.
The Audit Committee reviews the annual accounts, The Company reports to shareholders on a quarterly basis.
the preliminary financial results announcement and other In addition to these controls, the Group operates a range of financial statements prior to submission to the Board, operational reporting systems to monitor its business on a considering the compliance with accounting standards, that day-to-day basis.
disclosures are fair, balanced and appropriate.
It is pleasing to note that the Groups financial reporting was, once again, b Investment appraisal recognised in the BDO Stoy Hayward Property Accounts Awards The Company has clearly defined guidelines for capital by the award of Silver Standard for its 2004 annual report.
These include annual budgets, detailed appraisal and review procedures, levels of authority and due diligence The Committee also considers the requirement for, scope requirements where investment or development properties and extent of an internal audit programme.
It reviews the are being acquired.
Post-investment appraisals are performed effectiveness of the external audit and makes recommendations for major investments both acquisitions and major works on to the Board on the appointment and remuneration of the owned property.
The Audit Committee considers all papers presented to the Board on Risk Assessment and internal check and c Internal control control.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the The Committee has once again during the year considered Board on matters discussed at Audit Committee meetings.
carefully the Groups internal control and check procedures.
The Groups auditors report to the Committee annually The Group does not have an internal audit function.
Since the confirming the independence of all staff concerned with the Group invests in investment properties let on fixed terms, audit engagement.
During the year the Audit Committee risks associated with its assets and revenues are not high.
also reviewed its own effectiveness and reported to the The Board considers that the control systems operated Board on that detailed review which was favourable.
should reduce the risk of error, fraud or failure to a sufficiently low level that does not warrant the cost of an internal audit Engagement of the Groups auditors on non-audit activities is function.
The Board continues to monitor the Groups activities not specifically excluded.
However, such work is ordinarily only to ensure the continued validity of this judgment.
awarded following competitive tender and careful analysis by the Audit Committee of the potential for conflict arising as a d Whistleblowing result of the appointment.
The Board considers that in certain The Group has established and communicated a mechanism circumstances, for example where accountants reports are for whistleblowing.
Staff wishing to express concerns over required in the context of a circular to shareholders, the Groups any matter which they feel unable to discuss with their line auditors may be better qualified to issue such a report than management should raise these with the Chief Executive, another third party.
In the current year the Groups auditors or where the matter concerns an executive director, the have been engaged to provide advice on the preparation for Chairman.
All calls will be reported to the Audit Committee.
implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards Over the year no issues have been raised.
and in providing certificates on the issue of bonus shares, since the Audit Committee regards their familiarity with the Groups e Risk management business and accounting policies as providing a unique insight The Board has undertaken a review of the Groups activities in providing these services.
The Audit Committee reviews the with a view to identifying all sources of risk.
A more detailed level of audit fees for their adequacy and the magnitude of assessment of Risk Management is on page 50 with detailed other fees relative to the audit fee.
risk assessments available on the Groups website see the inside back cover.
The provisions of the Combined Code in respect of internal controls require that directors review all controls including Bernard Cragg operational, compliance and risk management as well as Chairman of the Audit Committee financial controls.
The directors have performed this review on 10 June 2005 a regular basis during the year.
This process is monitored by the Audit Committee.
The Board has considered the requirements of the Financial Services Authority and implemented a programme for the identification, reporting and management of risks as advised by the Combined Code.
The internal control and check system is designed to identify and manage risks, rather than eliminate them and as such it can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
