Accounting policies a Basis of preparation of accounts i Taxation The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost accounting The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into rules and in accordance with applicable Accounting Standards.
account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all such items which are considered material in relation to the Group's financial timing differences which have arisen but not reversed by the balance statements.
sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS19.
b Consolidation j Leased assets The consolidated accounts include the accounts of Crest Nicholson PLC Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalised and the and its subsidiaries made up to 31st October in each year.
The profits outstanding future lease obligations are shown in creditors.
Operating and losses of subsidiaries acquired or sold during the year are included lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight as from or up to their effective date of acquisition or disposal.
line basis over the period of the lease.
The subsidiary undertakings currently trading and which are significant to the Group are set out in Note 9. k Pensions The amount charged to the profit and loss account in respect of the No profit and loss account is presented for the Company as provided by defined contribution pension scheme represents the contributions S. 230 of the Companies Act 1985. payable in respect of the accounting period.
The expected cost to the Group of pensions in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme is c Turnover charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost of Turnover represents amounts received and receivable excluding VAT in pensions over the service lives of employees in the scheme.
respect of housing, land and commercial property sold.
Turnover excludes the sale of properties taken in part exchange.
l Financial instruments The Group uses currency swaps to manage financial risk.
These d Income recognition instruments are treated as hedges and the net interest payable or Income is recognised on house sales at the later of exchange of receivable is reflected in the profit and loss account.
Borrowings are contract and completion of build.
Income is recognised on land sales stated on the balance sheet after taking account of the effect of these when contracts are exchanged and all material conditions are met.
Income is recognised on commercial property sales on unconditional exchange of contract: the amount recognised depends on progress m Employee share schemes achieved in build and in securing occupiers.
The cost of awards to employees under the Long Term Share Incentive Plan of conditional rights to shares are recognised over the period to e Joint ventures which the related performance criteria are applied.
No cost is A joint venture is an undertaking in which the Group has a participating recognised in respect of Executive or SAYE share option schemes.
interest and which is jointly controlled under a contractual Further details on the share schemes can be found in the arrangement.
The appropriate share of results of joint venture Remuneration report on pages 51 to 56. undertakings is included in the consolidated profit and loss account.
Investments in joint venture undertakings are shown in the consolidated balance sheet using the gross equity method.
f Stocks Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes, where appropriate, a proportion of overhead expenses.
g Finance costs Interest on the Group's bank and other borrowings is written off as incurred.
h Depreciation Freehold land and ground rents are not depreciated.
Freehold buildings are depreciated at 2% on cost less residual value.
Leasehold land and premises are depreciated over the life of the lease.
Plant, vehicles and equipment are depreciated on cost less residual value on a straight line basis at rates varying between 10% and 33% determined by the expected life of the assets.
