Company accounting policies Notes to the Company accounts The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
Profit and loss account been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year.
Of the Groups profit for the year 35.2m 2004: 2.7m is dealt with in the profit and loss account of the Company which Accounting basis was approved by the Board on 22 February 2006 but which is not presented as permitted by s. 230 3 Companies Act 1985.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the previous revaluation of properties, in compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Included in the Company profit and loss account is a charge of 0.1m 2004: 0.1m in respect of the Companys audit fee.
Financial Services Authority and applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards.
Whilst the consolidated accounts have been prepared under IFRS, as required by European law, the Companys accounts continue to be prepared under UK GAAP as permitted.
Retirement benefit obligations Land and buildings In the past the Companys principal properties have been valued periodically by professional valuers on an open market, The Companys employees are members of the UK defined benefit schemes, details of which are disclosed in note 12. existing use basis.
Following the Companys adoption of FRS 15 in 2001, no further revaluations will be carried out and Whilst the Group reports under IFRS, the UK GAAP equivalent figures for the UK schemes would not be significantly previous book values will be retained.
Notwithstanding the requirements of FRS 15 all fixed assets are written down to different.
As the Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of of the schemes, due their recoverable amount in the event that any impairment review carried out in accordance with FRS 11 indicates that mainly to changes in the Groups corporate structure over the years, the Company has accounted as though the schemes the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value.
The profit or loss on the disposal of land and buildings included in were defined contribution schemes and has charged the contributions paid each year to the profit and loss account.
the profit and loss account represents the difference between the net proceeds of sale and the net book amount.
Depreciation C. Tangible fixed assets Land and Plant and Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost or valuation less depreciation.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write buildings equipment Total down the cost of all tangible fixed assets, except freehold land, over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis.
m m m The estimated average life for each major asset category is: Freehold buildings 15 to 40 years Cost or valuation At 1 January 2005 2.0 2.1 4.1 Computers and office equipment 3 to 5 years Additions - 0.4 0.4 Cars 3 years Disposals - 1.1 1.1 Plant and machinery 10 to 15 years At 31 December 2005 2.0 1.4 3.4 Leased assets Depreciation The cost of operating leases is charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
At 1 January 2005 0.6 1.9 2.5 Pensions Charge for year - 0.1 0.1 The defined benefit pension obligations of the Company are financed by contributions to separate funds.
As the Disposals - 0.9 0.9 Company is unable to reliably and consistently measure its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the funds, At 31 December 2005 0.6 1.1 1.7 the Company accounts as though the funds were defined contribution funds and charges contributions paid directly to the profit and loss account.
Net book amount Currency translations At 31 December 2005 1.4 0.3 1.7 Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the end of the financial period.
Exchange profits At 31 December 2004 1.4 0.2 1.6 or losses on trading transactions are included in the profit and loss account.
Other exchange differences arising from non-trading items are dealt with through reserves.
Financial instruments 2005 2004 The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rates and short-term currency m m rate fluctuations.
Receipts and payments on interest rate instruments are recognised on an accruals basis in the profit and loss account over the life of the instrument.
Instruments accounted for as hedges are designated as a hedge at the Net book amount of land and buildings inception of the contract.
Gains or losses are recognised on maturity of the underlying transaction.
Freehold 1.4 1.4 Employee Share Ownership Trusts Historical cost of land and buildings Shares acquired by the Trustees, funded by the Company and held for the continuing benefit of the Company are shown Cost 0.2 0.2 as a reduction in shareholders funds.
Movements in the year arising from additional purchases by the Trustees of shares 1988 valuations 1.9 1.9 or the receipt of funds due to the exercise of options by employees are accounted for within reserves and shown as a movement in shareholders funds in the year.
Administration expenses of the trusts are charged to the Companys profit At 31 December 2.1 2.1 and loss account as incurred.
Revaluation surpluses 1.1 1.1 Restated to historical cost 1.0 1.0 Share based payments Depreciation 0.5 0.5 The fair value of employee share option plans is calculated using the Black-Scholes or binomial model as appropriate.
In accordance with FRS 20 Share-based Payment the resulting cost is charged to the income statement over the vesting Historical net book amount period of the options.
The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of options vesting as the At 31 December 0.5 0.5 Company does not use market-based performance criteria.
Dividends Dividends on preference shares are recognised as a liability on an accruals basis.
Other dividends are recognised as a liability when the liability is irrevocable.
Accordingly, final dividends are recognised when approved by shareholders and interim dividends are recognised when paid.
72 Company accounting policies Notes to the Company accounts 73
