0197 DC AR 2005 p55-60 2 6 05 9:54 am Page 58 58 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2005 Notice of Ninth Annual General Meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own personal financial advice immediately from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent financial adviser duly authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have already sold or otherwise transferred all of your Dairy Crest shares, please send this document as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT the Ninth Annual General market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Meeting of the Company will be held at the Chartered Act of ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the capital of the Accountants Hall, Moorgate Place, London EC2P 2BJ on Company ordinary shares provided that: Thursday 14 July 2005 at 11.00am for the following purposes: the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised Ordinary business to be acquired is 12,498,606: 1.
To receive and adopt the Companys annual accounts for the year ended 31 March 2005, together with the directors report the minimum price which may be paid for any such ordinary and auditors report on those accounts.
share is 25 pence exclusive of expenses and appropriate taxes : 2.
To approve the Report of the Board on directors the maximum price exclusive of expenses and appropriate remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2005. taxes which may be paid for any such ordinary share shall be not more than 5% above the average of the middle market 3.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2005 values for an ordinary share as taken from the London Stock of 14.3 pence per share.
Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and 4.
To re-elect Mr G E Grimstone as a director of the Company.
the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion 5.
To re-elect Mr J W D Hall as a director of the Company.
of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company except in relation to a purchase of ordinary shares the contract for which 6.
To elect Mr D H Richardson as a director of the Company.
was concluded before such time and which will or may be executed wholly or partly after such time.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors, to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next 10.
That the Companys articles of association be amended by general meeting at which accounts are laid before the members, the deletion of article 147 and the insertion of a new article 147 and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
so as to be in the form produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identification.
Special business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions 11.
That the power conferred on the directors by article 4 C of which will be proposed in the case of resolution 8, as an the Companys articles of association to allot equity securities ordinary resolution and, in the case of resolutions 9, 10 and 11, within the meaning of section 94 2 of the Act for cash be as special resolutions: renewed for the period from the date of the passing of this resolution until the conclusion of the next Annual General Ordinary resolution Meeting of the Company and for that period the section 89 8.
That the authority conferred on the directors by article 4 B amount is 1,562,275. of the Companys articles of association to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of By order of the Board section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act be renewed for the period from the date of the passing of this resolution until the Roger Newton, Secretary conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company 6 June 2005 and for that period the section 80 amount is 10,415,000.
That, pursuant to article 41 of the Companys articles of association, the Company be generally and unconditionally Registered Office: authorised, in accordance with Section 166 of the Act to make Claygate House, Littleworth Road, Esher, Surrey KT10 9PN 0197 DC AR 2005 p55-60 2 6 05 4:44 pm Page 59 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2005 59 Explanatory notes Notes 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is also entitled 4.
Individuals will be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting only if their to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of own name appears on the share register or, where the shares are held in him her.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
a different trading or registration name, on production of written evidence of their authority to act as that shareholders representative.
You may use the form of proxy enclosed with this Notice to appoint a the name of which is entered in the register of members may, by any two proxy to attend the meeting on your behalf.
To be effective, the form of persons purporting to be partners in the partnership, authorise a person proxy and any authority under which it is executed or a certified copy of to act as its representative at the meeting.
A company or other institution such authority must reach the offices of the Companys registrar, Lloyds may by prior written authorisation confirm the appointment of a corporate TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6LA not representative to attend the meeting on its behalf.
Such a representative less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
Completion shall be entitled to exercise the same rights as an individual member in and return of the form of proxy will not preclude shareholders from respect of the shares to which the authorisation relates.
Any company or attending and voting in person at the meeting.
partnership appointing a representative to attend the meeting is requested to notify the Companys registrar of such appointment in CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the writing not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the 5.
Only individual shareholders whose names appear on the register, CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored their proxies or representatives duly authorised in the above manner will members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting be permitted to attend and vote at the meeting.
service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
The register of the interests of the directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company and copies of the directors service In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection by the service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy members at the registered office on any business day during normal Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with business hours until the date of the AGM and will also be available for CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for inspection at the AGM for at least 15 minutes before it commences.
such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an Resolution 1 amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy The directors of the Company have a duty to present to shareholders in must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the general meeting the annual accounts, together with the directors report issuers agent Lloyds TSB Registrars ID 7RA01 by the time stated and the report of the auditors.
The auditors report can be found on above for the receipt of forms of proxy.
For this purpose, the time of page 55. receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which Resolution 2 the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST As required by the Act, the Board has presented its Report of the Board in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of on directors remuneration to shareholders in the Annual Report, which instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be may be found on pages 26 to 32.
This report gives details of the communicated to the appointee through other means.
directors remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2005 and sets out the Companys overall policy on directors remuneration.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make As also required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
the Companys auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, have audited the relevant Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to parts of the Report of the Board on directors remuneration and their report the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the may be found on page 55.
CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a The Board considers that appropriate executive remuneration plays voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting a vital part in helping to achieve the Companys overall objectives.
service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure In compliance with the Act, shareholders are invited to approve the that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any Report of the Board on directors remuneration.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are Resolution 3 referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual The directors recommend that a final dividend of 14.3 pence per share concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
be paid on 9 August 2005 to shareholders on the register on 8 July 2005.
Payment of the final dividend will bring the total dividend for the The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the year ended 31 March 2005 to 20.2 pence per share.
circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertified Securities Regulations 2001.
Resolutions 4 and 5 The articles of association specify that up to one third of the directors 3.
In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities other than the director covered by Resolution 6 must retire by rotation at Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that only those shareholders the Annual General Meeting.
This year Mr G E Grimstone, Mr J W D Hall appearing in the register of members as at 6.00pm on Tuesday 12 July and Mr P S Lewis retire by rotation.
Mr G E Grimstone and Mr J W D Hall 2005 the specified time shall be entitled to attend and vote at the are eligible for and seek re-election.
Details of their biographies can be meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at found on page 21.
Mr P S Lewis is not seeking re-election and will retire that time.
Changes to the register of members after the specified time from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
0197 DC AR 2005 p55-60 2 6 05 4:44 pm Page 60 60 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2005 Explanatory notes continued Resolution 6 The articles of association also require that any director appointed by the believes that the provision of appropriate indemnities and the funding Board since the last Annual General Meeting must offer himself for election.
of directors defence costs as they are incurred, as permitted by the Mr D H Richardson has been appointed by the Board during the year and new legislation, is both reasonable protection for the directors and an being eligible offers himself for election by the shareholders.
Details of his important means of ensuring that the Company continues to attract biography can be found on page 21. and retain the highest calibre of directors.
Resolution 7 The Board therefore proposes that the articles of association be This is a standard resolution proposing the reappointment of Ernst & amended by adopting a new article 147 in place of the existing article Young LLP as the Companys auditors.
The new article 147 reflects the new provisions permitted under the 2004 Act and deletes provisions reflecting the old statutory Resolution 8 provisions which are no longer relevant.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 15 July 2004, shareholders passed a resolution giving the directors authority, in accordance with To ensure that the Board is able to exercise the discretionary power article 4 B of the Companys articles of association, to allot relevant to fund defence costs, the new article 147 provides that each of the securities, within the meaning of Section 80 of the Act, in the amount of directors may vote and be counted in the quorum at any meeting 10,344,000.
The Company proposes to renew this authority and the considering a proposal which falls within the provisions of the new section 80 amount referred to in Resolution 8 allows the directors to article 147 D, unless the director concerned is to receive a privilege allot relevant securities up to a nominal value of 10,415,000, or benefit not generally available to, or awarded to, any other director.
representing approximately 33% of the issued ordinary shares of the Individual directors of the Company would still be liable to repay their Company as at 24 May 2005.
The directors have no present intention of defence costs, to the extent funded by the Company, if their defence exercising this authority other than to satisfy the exercise of options.
The Companys auditors are excluded from the indemnity provisions of new article 147.
Resolution 9 The authority for the Company to make market purchases of its issued Further information about this resolution is provided under Directors share capital, granted last year, will expire at the close of the Annual indemnities on page 25.
This resolution seeks renewal of that authority, again limited to a maximum number of shares which amounts to approximately Resolution 11 10% of the Companys current issued share capital.
The authority has At the Annual General Meeting held on 15 July 2004 shareholders not been used to date and would only be exercised if the directors passed a resolution giving the directors authority to disapply the believed that a repurchase of shares would result in an increase in pre-emption requirements for allotments of equity securities for cash up earnings per share and would be in the best interests of shareholders as to 1,551,645.
The Company proposes to renew this authority up to a a whole.
Any shares repurchased under this authority may be held by the nominal value limit of 1,562,275 being approximately 5% of the issued Company as treasury shares.
share capital of the Company as at 24 May 2005.
The authority has not been used so far and the Board has no present intention of allotting any Resolution 10 shares in these restricted circumstances.
Article 147 of the articles of association currently allows the Company to indemnify the directors and the company secretary against liability The directors believe that the resolutions are in the best incurred in defending civil or criminal proceedings in which judgement is interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and given in their favour or they are acquitted, and against the costs of unanimously recommend that shareholders should vote in favour successfully applying for relief under the Act.
Section 19 of the of all resolutions.
Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004 the 2004 Act amended the Act as of 6 April 2005 to permit companies to indemnify officers other than auditors in respect of liabilities including legal costs incurred by them in proceedings brought against them by third parties.
This form of indemnity was previously prohibited under section 310 of the Act.
Amongst other things, the indemnity cannot cover: liability incurred by a director to the Company or any associated company: fines imposed in criminal proceedings and penalties imposed by regulatory authorities: costs incurred in criminal proceedings where the director is convicted: costs incurred in defending civil proceedings brought by the Company or an associated company where judgement is given against the director: or costs incurred in proceedings for relief where the court refuses to grant relief.
Companies are also permitted under the 2004 Act to provide their directors with funds to cover the costs incurred by them in defending legal proceedings brought against them.
Previously, companies had only been able to fund their directors defence costs once final judgment in their favour had been reached.
Directors are increasingly being added as defendants in legal actions against companies, and litigation is often very lengthy and expensive: the risk of directors being placed under significant personal financial strain is increasing.
The Board therefore 0197 DC ibc 2 6 05 9:46 am Page 1 Designed by Tor Pettersen & Partners 020 7432 6100 Printed in England by St Ives Westerham Press Dairy Crest Group plc Annual Report 2005 4561 DC cover AW 4 Lores 13 6 05 9:17 AM Page 4 family favourites Dairy Crest Group plc Claygate House Littleworth Road Esher Surrey KT10 9PN Dairy Crest Group plc Company No: 3162897 Visit our website at www.
