0197 DC AR 2005 p22 39 2 6 05 10:30 am Page 38 38 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2005 Accounting policies 1 Basis of preparation 4 Turnover The financial statements have been prepared under the Turnover represents the amount invoiced, net of VAT, for goods historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable and services supplied to customers.
The Group has adopted Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts which 5 Tangible fixed assets required the net book value of shares held by the Dairy Crest Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated Employees Share Ownership Plan ESOP Trust to be depreciation.
The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are deducted from Shareholders Funds instead of being shown as reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances Fixed Assets-Investments.
The comparative balance sheet and indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Interest reserves at 31 March 2004 have been restated to reflect is capitalised on major capital projects during the period of this adjustment.
There is no impact on results for the current construction based on the Groups average cost of borrowings.
6 Depreciation 2 Consolidation Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of tangible fixed The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of assets, excluding freehold land, over their estimated useful lives Dairy Crest Group plc and its subsidiary undertakings drawn in equal annual instalments over the following periods: up to 31 March each year and include the appropriate share of the results and net assets of its joint ventures.
Subsidiary Freehold buildings 25 years undertakings and joint ventures acquired during the year are Leasehold land and buildings 25 years or, if shorter, the consolidated from the date of acquisition.
period of the lease Plant and equipment 4 to 20 years On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries Vehicles 4 to 10 years are translated into sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results of foreign subsidiaries are translated into sterling at 7 Government and other grants average rates of exchange for the year.
Exchange differences Regional development and other grants received for the arising from the retranslation of the net investment in foreign purchase of fixed assets are included in creditors and subsidiaries at year end exchange rates, less exchange subsequently released to profit over the useful life of the differences on borrowings which finance or provide a hedge asset by equal instalments.
against those undertakings, are taken to reserves and are reported in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
8 Leased assets Assets acquired under finance leases are included in the 3 Goodwill balance sheet at cost less depreciation.
The net present value Goodwill arising on acquisitions since 1 April 1998, comprising of future lease rentals is included as a liability on the balance the difference between the cost of shares or businesses sheet.
The interest element of lease rentals is charged to the acquired and the fair value of the identifiable net assets at the profit and loss account in the year.
date of acquisition, is capitalised as an intangible fixed asset and amortised through the profit and loss account over the Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the profit estimated useful life of the asset, not exceeding 20 years.
and loss account on the straight line basis.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions since 1 April 2002 will normally 9 Investments be amortised over 10 years.
Joint ventures are those in which the Group holds a long-term interest and shares control under a contractual arrangement.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 April 1998 has been Joint ventures are accounted for using the gross equity method.
charged against the merger reserve and has not been reinstated The Groups share of joint ventures profits is included in the following the implementation of FRS 10.
Goodwill is reviewed for consolidated profit and loss account and its share of their impairment at the end of the first full year following acquisition attributable net assets is included in the Group balance sheet.
and in other periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
10 Stocks Stocks are stated at the lower of cost including attributable If a subsidiary or business is disposed of, any goodwill arising production overheads and net realisable value.
Consumable on acquisition that was written off directly to reserves or that stores are valued at cost, net of provisions where appropriate.
has not been amortised through the profit and loss account is taken into account in determining the profit or loss on sale.
0197 DC AR 2005 p22 39 31 5 05 9:49 am Page 39 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2005 39 11 Deferred taxation Interest rate swaps Deferred taxation is recognised using the incremental liability The Groups criteria for interest rate swaps are that the approach in respect of all timing differences that have originated instrument must be related to an asset or a liability and it but have not been reversed by the balance sheet date.
must change the character of the interest rate by converting Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent to which a variable rate to a fixed rate or vice versa.
Interest differentials are recognised by accruing the net interest 12 Pensions payable.
Interest rate swaps are not revalued to fair value or The Group continues to use SSAP 24 Accounting for shown in the Groups balance sheet at the year end.
Pension Costs to account for pension costs and provides the required disclosures under the transitional rules of FRS 17 Retirement Benefits.
Pension costs are recognised on a systematic basis in order to spread the costs of providing retirement benefits evenly over the service lives of the employees concerned.
Any excess or deficiency of the actuarial value of assets over the actuarial value of liabilities is allocated over the average remaining service lives of current employees on an even percentage of payroll.
13 Research and development Expenditure on research and development is written off as incurred.
14 Foreign currencies Forward foreign exchange contracts are accounted for as hedges when they relate to a foreign currency asset or liability that is probable and which involves the same currency as the hedged item.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date, or the forward rate where hedged.
Exchange rate differences are charged to the profit and loss account.
15 Derivative instruments The Group uses forward foreign currency contracts to reduce exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Group also uses interest rate swaps to reduce interest rate exposures.
The Group considers that its derivative instruments qualify for hedge accounting when certain criteria are met as set out below: Forward foreign currency contracts The criteria for forward foreign currency contracts are that the instrument must be related to a foreign currency asset or liability that is probable and whose characteristics have been identified, it must involve the same currency as the hedged item and it must reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements on the Groups operations.
The rates under such contracts are used to record the hedged item.
As a result, gains and losses are offset against the foreign exchange gains and losses on the related financial assets and liabilities, or where the instrument is used to hedge a committed or probable future transaction, are deferred until the transaction occurs.
