Members qualifications are set out in their significant financial reporting issues and approves any changes biographies on page 24.
The Board is satisfied that Mr Gray, to Group accounting policies, which are set centrally.
During the formerly senior partner of a firm of chartered accountants, year, the Committee received reports from the Group Accountant has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Secretary, on the progress being made to enable the Group to implement Mr Jennings, a Chartered Accountant, is secretary to the international accounting standards in the year to 1st October, Committee.
The Audit Committee met four times during the year 2006 and on the requirements of the new statutory Operating and and all meetings were attended by all serving Directors, except Financial Review which may be required to be adopted in next that Mr Hemingway was unable to attend one of them.
Apart from these specific responsibilities, the Committee is mandated to review all announcements of The Committee has implemented the procedures set out in the results issued by the Group and to consider the appointment Smith Guidance to the Code which are within its control.
It has of external auditors and to review their remuneration.
Procedures exist to monitor the independence of the external auditors and include a policy on The central internal audit function carries out its activities across employment of former audit principals.
There is also a policy the Group.
There is an internal audit charter which covers the on the provision of non-audit services with which the Groups purposes and objectives of the Groups internal audit function, head office and each division complies.
The choice of firm is its authority and scope: independence issues: standards of normally determined on the basis of professional expertise and professional practice and performance monitoring: planning competitiveness.
The Group may engage the external auditors to and reporting: and the expectations of divisional management.
perform audit-related work, accountancy advice and corporate tax Following each review, a formal report is issued to divisional services.
Non-audit services in other areas are decided on their management with the audit findings and, where appropriate, merits and are put out to tender where the amounts in question managements response.
At each Audit Committee meeting, are significant.
The external auditors are excluded from the the Internal Audit Manager reports on the internal audit activity following areas: where they are auditing their own work: where completed, including an overview of the work done, a summary a mutuality of interest is created: or where the external auditor of the control assessments and any major issues or findings.
would be put in the role of advocate for the Company.
In September, the Committee monitored and reviewed the resources and performance of the internal audit function, together Non-audit fees payable to Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte in 2005 with its plan for the forthcoming year.
It approved the plan and amounted to 2.0 million, compared to 3.3 million the previous confirmed that the internal audit function had been effective in year, reflecting the continuing extent of corporate tax advice given the year under review.
and the appointment of Deloitte on merit as lead consultant on Northcliffes cost reduction project.
Since Deloittes appointment The Group does not maintain common detailed accounting or in 2001, non-audit fees have been on average lower than audit fees.
operations manuals because of the diverse operations carried out by its divisions.
Where applicable, divisions maintain their In September, the Audit Committee carried out an annual review own manuals.
A number of the divisions also undertake regular of its terms of reference and of its effectiveness and concluded control review work as part of their control process.
that it did not need to recommend to the Board any changes to its remit or operations.
In October 2005, the Board conducted its As a consequence of the Groups risk management process, the own review of the Committees performance and agreed that the Board has taken the view that control processes in place remain Committee had been effective in the year under review.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has responsibility One of the Groups subsidiaries, Euromoney Institutional Investor for the review of financial risk management and of internal plc, is subject to the requirements of the Code in its own right.
financial controls during the year, as these directly relate to the As disclosed in its latest annual report, it has in place its own quality of financial reporting.
In addition, the Committee reviews system of internal control and risk management processes.
a summary of letters to management prepared by the Groups The joint ventures and associates of the Group are not included external auditors following their audit procedures, considers in the Groups system of internal control described above.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE PREPARATION OF ACCOUNTS The Directors are required by U. K. company law to prepare The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of records, for the system of internal control, for safeguarding the the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at the end assets of the Company and of the Group and for taking reasonable of the financial year and of the profit or loss, total recognised steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
gains and losses and cash flows of the Group for that period.
On behalf of the Board The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently, and that reasonable and prudent N D Jennings, FCA judgements and estimates have been made in the preparation of Secretary the Accounts for the year ended 2nd October, 2005.
The Directors 29th November, 2005 also confirm that applicable accounting standards have been followed and that it is appropriate that the Accounts have been prepared on the going concern basis.
28 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
