APPENDIX Employee Benefits IAS 19 IFRS information The Group has elected to recognise all cumulative actuarial gains Introduction and losses in relation to employee benefit schemes at the date of DMGT prepares its report and accounts in accordance with U. K. transition.
generally accepted accounting practice UK GAAP.
Following the European regulation issued in 2002, the Group will present its Share-based payments IFRS 2 report and accounts in accordance with International Financial The Group has elected to apply IFRS 2 to all relevant share based Reporting Standards IFRS from 3rd October, 2005. payment transactions granted after 7th November, 2002 but not fully vested as at 1st January, 2005.
The Groups first Annual Report and Accounts under IFRS will therefore be for the year ending 1st October, 2006.
Comparative Joint Ventures figures for the year ended 2nd October, 2005, as presented in this The Group has elected to continue to equity account for its Report and Accounts will be restated.
The transition date to IFRS investments in joint ventures and not adopt a proportional for DMGT is 3rd October, 2004, being the start of the period of consolidation approach.
Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation IAS 32 and Basis of preparation Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IAS 39 The key differences between UK GAAP and IFRS affecting the IAS 32 and IAS 39 have been deferred.
They will be adopted from Groups accounting policies are set out below and these assume 3rd October, 2005.
Commencing on this date it is the intention to that all existing IFRS, Standing Interpretations Committee SIC apply hedge accounting where the requirements of IAS 39 are met.
interpretations and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations issued by the Summary of differences between UK GAAP and IFRS International Accounting Standards Board IASB effective for the The following summarises the areas of reconciliation relevant to year to 2nd October, 2005, will be fully endorsed by the EC.
The the Group between UK GAAP and IFRS.
failure of the EC to endorse all of these standards in time for the 2005 06 financial reporting period could result in the need to Share based payments change the basis of accounting or presentation of certain financial Under UK GAAP no cost is incurred for share options under the information from that reported herein.
In accordance with IFRS 2 Sharebased payments the Group will recognise a charge to the Profit The IASB continues to amend certain of these standards and and Loss Account which represents the fair value of outstanding interpretations as well as to issue new standards and share-based payments granted to employees.
Such new guidance may be applicable to 2005 06 or may be applicable to later periods but may be adopted early.
The basis of calculation for deferred taxation is the difference It is important to note that the IFRS position as stated is the between the market price at the balance sheet date and the Groups current view based on the financial reporting standards exercise price of the share-based payment reflecting expected currently in issue and changes may arise as new accounting levels of vesting.
pronouncements are developed and issued.
As a result of this, the Groups first financial statements may be prepared on a Employment benefits different basis to that presented herein.
The Groups accounting Under UK GAAP, a prepayment or accrual is shown in the balance policy for the financial instruments assumes that the final version sheet representing timing differences between the surplus of of IAS 39 Financial Instruments will be endorsed by the EC and pension fund assets over projected accrued benefit obligations adopted from 3rd October, 2005. and the cash payments made to the pension fund scheme.
IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Under IAS 19 Employee Benefits, the regular service cost of Standards providing retirement benefits to employees during the period, IFRS 1 permits companies adopting IFRS for the first time to take together with the cost of any benefits relating to past service is some exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS and also charged to operating profit in the period.
A net credit representing certain elections in the transition period.
The Group has taken the expected return on assets of the retirement benefit schemes less advantage of the following exemptions and elections.
a charge representing the expected increase in the liabilities during the period is included within other finance income, based on the Business Combinations IFRS 3 market value of the assets of the scheme at the start of the financial The Group has decided not to adopt IFRS 3 retrospectively to period.
The difference between the market value of the assets and business combinations.
As a result, in the opening balance sheet, the present value of the accrued pension liabilities is recognised as goodwill from past business combinations amounting to 626.6 an asset or a liability in the balance sheet together with the related million remains as stated under UK GAAP as at 3rd October, 2004. deferred tax.
Differences between the actual and expected returns on assets during the period are recognised in the Statement of Cumulative translation differences Recognised Income and Expense, together with differences arising The Group has elected not to recalculate the movement arising from changes in assumptions.
This treatment is consistent with that on the retranslation of the overseas operations at the date of already disclosed under FRS 17 Retirement Benefits under UK GAAP transition.
The gain or loss or loss on the subsequent disposal of as set out in note 37 to the financial statements.
an overseas operation will only take account of translation gains or losses that arise subsequent to the date of transition.
87 Daily Mail and General Trust plc APPENDIX Continued Leases deferred tax liability under UK GAAP, however, the reverse is true Under UK GAAP, lease incentives are taken to the Profit and Loss under IFRS where a potential deferred tax asset arises.
Under UK Account over the term of the lease remaining to the next rental GAAP the Group was permitted to discount deferred tax assets review.
IAS 17 Leases, requires incentives to be taken to the Profit and liabilities, whereas IFRS does not permit discounting.
As and Loss Account over the lease term rather than to the next amortisation of goodwill is not permitted under IFRS the potential review.
This has led to a slight increase in the charge for the year.
deferred tax in respect of capitalised tax deductible goodwill will be more significant under IFRS.
Dividends Under UK GAAP dividends are provided for in the period in respect Presentation of financial statements of which they are declared or proposed.
IAS 10 Events After the The format of the primary financial statements will be presented Balance Sheet Date requires that dividends are given effect only in in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
the period in which they are declared.
The effect of this change for Although similar, a presentation and related disclosures differ the Group is that the final dividend in relation to the financial years from the UK GAAP equivalent.
Under IAS 1, there is no definition 2003 04 and 2004 05 which were accrued at the balance sheet of exceptional items.
However, the standard provides examples of dates are reversed and, instead, accounted for in 2004 05 and circumstances where, when such items of income and expense are 2005 06 respectively.
material, the nature and amount should be disclosed separately.
Included in these examples are many one off items which the Business combinations and intangible assets Group has previously described as exceptional.
Accordingly, the Under UK GAAP, goodwill on acquisitions made by the Group Group will continue to identify such items separately.
since 28th September, 1998 has been capitalised and amortised over its estimated life where such a life has been determined Reclassification changes to be finite.
Prior to 28th September, 1998, goodwill arising on The following changes reflect presentational changes to the acquisitions was eliminated against reserves in the consolidated balance sheet at the Transition Date and have no effect on either balance sheet in the year in which the acquisition was made.
net assets or future profits: IFRS 3 Reporting Financial Performance prohibits the amortisation of goodwill.
This standard requires goodwill to be Under UK GAAP, share of interest and taxation of associates and carried at cost with impairment reviews carried out annually and joint ventures is included within Group net interest and taxation.
at other times if there are indications that the carrying amount Under IFRS these items are disclosed within share of may not be supportable.
The Group has adopted the transitional profits losses from associates and joint ventures: provisions set out in IFRS 1, to apply IFRS 3 prospectively from the Transition Date.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions made prior to this Under UK GAAP, capitalised computer software is included is frozen as at the Transition Date and any goodwill amortisation within tangible fixed assets on the balance sheet.
Under IFRS, only occurring in the financial year 2004 05 is therefore reversed for computer software which is integral to a related item of hardware IFRS reporting purposes.
is included as property, plant and equipment.
All other computer software is included.
All other computer software is included as IAS 38 Intangible Assets requires other intangible assets to be an intangible asset.
As a result, certain software previously shown separately identified and amortised over their useful economic lives.
as fixed assets has been reclassified as intangible assets: These lives will typically not be indefinite and as a result, upon acquisition of a company, intangible assets such as brands and Under UK GAAP, specific definitions exist for cash at bank and customer lists are now separately valued and then amortised over in hand and short-term investments.
Under IFRS, a new category their useful economic lives.
Additionally, UK GAAP requires that on described as cash and cash equivalents replaces the UK GAAP subsequent disposal or closure of a previously acquired subsidiary, equivalent of cash at bank and in hand.
The definition of cash and any goodwill previously taken directly to shareholders funds is then cash equivalents results in a reclassification of certain amounts charged to the Profit and Loss Account as part of profit or loss on from short-term investments into cash and cash equivalents: disposal or closure.
Under IFRS the appropriate balance to be written off on the disposal of the business is the remaining Under UK GAAP, provisions for liabilities and charges are not unamortised balance for goodwill.
This change has no effect required to be formally split between current and non-current.
on the Groups opening balance sheet.
IFRS requires this distinction to be made: and Marketing costs Under UK GAAP, deferred tax assets are split between amounts Under UK GAAP the Group matches its marketing and falling due within one year and amounts falling due after more promotional spend with income generated from an event.
IFRS requires all deferred tax asset balances to be IFRS, IAS 38 Intangible Assets requires that deferred marketing shown as non-current.
and promotional costs be expensed when incurred.
Taxation Under UK GAAP recognition of deferred tax in respect of rolled over capital gains is not required and is not permitted in respect of revaluation gains.
Under IFRS a deferred tax provision is required in both cases.
Under UK GAAP deferred tax does not arise in respect of capitalised intangible fixed assets unless they are deductible for tax purposes, IFRS requires provision where the asset is acquired as part of a business combination.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to the introduction of FRS10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, gave rise to a potential 88 Daily Mail and General Trust plc APPENDIX Continued Summary of effects on profit for the year of differences between UK GAAP and IFRS Period ended 2nd October, 2005 m Effect of differences between UK GAAP and IFRS on profit for the year Profit for the year in accordance with UK GAAP 51.3 IFRS Adjustments Employee benefits IAS 19 13.0 Share based payments IFRS 2 11.0 Deferred marketing costs IAS 38 0.7 Operating leases IAS 17 0.1 Operating profit before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets and exceptional items 24.8 Goodwill amortisation reversal IFRS 3 50.5 Amortisation of intangibles acquired IAS 38 7.0 IFRS adjustments to operating profit 18.7 Goodwill amortisation reversal from associates and joint ventures IFRS 3 4.4 Goodwill previously written off to reserves IFRS 3 5.3 Goodwill amortisation reversal on associate sold during the year IFRS 3 1.1 Reclassification of share of tax and interest from associates and joint ventures IAS 1 3.5 IFRS adjustments to profit before interest and taxation 23.8 Employee benefits IAS 19 9.9 Reclassification of share of interest from associates and joint ventures IAS 1 1.2 IFRS adjustments to interest 11.1 Tax effect on Reclassification of share of tax from associates and joint ventures IAS 1 2.3 Employee benefits IAS 19 1.6 Sundry items 0.1 Deferred marketing costs IAS 38 0.2 Share based payments IFRS 2 6.9 Deferred tax IAS 12 9.6 IFRS adjustments to taxation 12.3 Effect on minority interests 2.2 IFRS adjustments to minorities 2.2 Dividends IAS 10 2.5 IFRS adjustments to dividends 2.5 Profit for the year in accordance with IFRS 74.2 89 Daily Mail and General Trust plc APPENDIX Continued Summary of effects on shareholders funds of differences between UK GAAP and IFRS Transition 2nd October, 2005 3rd October, 2004 m m Effects of difference between UK GAAP and IFRS on shareholders funds Shareholders funds for the year in accordance with UK GAAP 462.4 402.1 IFRS Adjustments Employee benefits IAS 19 237.0 255.7 Share based payments IFRS 2 42.9 Dividends IAS 10 32.5 30.0 Goodwill amortisation reversal IFRS 3 53.8 Amortisation of intangibles acquired IAS 38 7.0 Deferred marketing costs IAS 38 2.5 1.7 Operating leases IAS 17 1.4 1.3 Other 0.5 0.5 IFRS adjustments before taxation 162.1 272.1 Deferred tax on pension deficit IAS 19 71.6 75.4 Deferred tax on goodwill and intangible timing differences IAS 12 39.8 25.8 Deferred tax on share based payments IFRS 2 0.7 1.6 Corporation tax on deferred marketing costs IAS 38 0.6 0.4 Corporation tax on employee benefits IAS 19 0.4 0.2 Deferred tax other 2.0 3.0 IFRS adjustments after taxation 130.6 223.3 Shareholders funds for the year in accordance with IFRS 331.8 178.8 90 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
