SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Company Secretary and Registered Office This report is available electronically on the Companys website N D Jennings, FCA which contains a link to Shareview to enable shareholders to Northcliffe House register for electronic mailings.
Notification by email has been 2 Derry Street given of the availability of this Annual Report on the Companys London website to those shareholders who have registered.
W8 5TT England Low Cost Share Dealing Service The Company has arranged with its brokers, JP Morgan Cazenove Registered Number: 184594 Limited, to provide a simple, low-cost share dealing service for A Ordinary Non-Voting shares in Daily Mail and General Trust plc.
Website The Group has an internet website which gives information on the The main features are: a basic commission of 1% on both purchases Company and its operating subsidiaries and provides details of and sales subject to a minimum commission of 10 per transaction : significant Group announcements.
It also has a site giving details reduced commission rates for transactions over 5,000: and no of job opportunities within the Group.
For further details, please contact JP Morgan Cazenove Limited, Company Share Schemes, at 20 Moorgate, The addresses are: London, EC2R 6DA: the telephone number is 020 7155 5155. www.
com Lloyds TSB Registrars also provide a simple low cost dealing service for Ordinary and A Ordinary Non-Voting shares details of Financial Calendar 2006 which are available at www.
11th January Annual Report published 8th February Annual General Meeting Details of these and other low cost dealing services can be found on the Companys website at www.
10th February Payment of final dividend 31st March Payment of interest on loan notes Loan Notes 2nd April Half year end Loan notes issued by the Company and by Daily Mail and General Investments plc, a subsidiary, are repayable in whole or in part 25th May Half year results and dividend announced at the option of loan note holders every six months.
Loan note 7th June Interim ex-dividend date holders requiring repayment should complete the redemption section on the back of their loan note and send it to reach the 9th June Interim record date Registrars by 28th February or 31st August for repayments on 7th July Payment of interim dividend 31st March or 30th September respectively.
30th September Payment of interest on loan notes Eurobond Paying Agent 1st October Year end The principal paying agent for the Companys 10% Bonds due 23rd November Annual results and final dividend announced 2021 and the 7.5% Bonds due 2013 is Deutsche Bank AG London, Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester St, London EC2N 2DB.
The 29th November Ex-dividend date principal paying agent for the Companys 5.75% Bonds due 2018 1st December Record date is HSBC Bank plc, Corporate Trust and Loan Agency, 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ.
Enquiries should be directed to John Capital Gains Tax Donegan, Group Accountant, who can be contacted on 020 7938 The market value of both the Ordinary and A Ordinary Non-Voting 6627, and whose e-mail address is john.
@ shares in the Company on 31st March, 1982 adjusted for the 1994 bonus issue of A Ordinary Non-Voting shares and for the four-forShare Price Information one share split in 2000 was 9.75 pence.
The current price of the Companys Ordinary and A Ordinary NonVoting shares can be found on page 516 of Teletext on analogue Registrars Channel 4 and on page 865 of Teletext on Freeview Channel 100.
All enquiries regarding shareholdings, dividends, lost share A graph, illustrating the recent performance of the A shares, is certificates, loan notes in the Company and in Daily Mail and shown on page 06.
General Investments plc, or changes of address should be directed to Lloyds TSB Registrars at the address set out on page 92.
Crest Shareholders have the choice either of holding their shares in Electronic Communications electronic form in an account on the CREST system or in the Lloyds TSB Registrars operate Shareview, a free online service physical form of share certificates.
which enables shareholders with internet access to check their shareholdings and other related information and to register to Investor Relations receive notification by email of the release of the Interim and Investor relations are the responsibility of Nicholas Jennings, Annual Reports.
It also offers practical help on matters such as Company Secretary, whose office is responsible for distribution transferring shares or updating your own details.
Shareholders of the Annual Report.
He is assisted by Fran Sallas.
The investor may register for the service at www.
relations e-mail address is investor.
