ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of Accounting Purchased intangible assets relating to newspaper publishing The Accounts have been prepared: rights, titles, radio licences and certain other intangible assets are capitalised and amortised through the profit and loss account a under the historical cost convention modified to include the over the lower of their useful economic lives, if any, and a period revaluation of certain assets: of 20 years.
b in accordance with Section 227 of, and Schedule 4 to, the Foreign Exchange Companies Act 1985: and a Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Revenue items c in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the are translated at average rates for the year, except where they are United Kingdom.
covered by forward contracts in which case the forward rate is used.
Differences on exchange, arising from the re-translation of the Basis of Consolidation opening net investment in subsidiaries and associates and from a The Group accounts comprise a consolidation of the accounts the translation of the results of those undertakings at average or of the Company and of all its subsidiaries, together with the forward rates, are dealt with as movements on reserves.
Groups share of its interest in its joint ventures and associates.
b Foreign currency borrowings are matched against net assets All major Group undertakings present accounts up to a date within adjusted to include goodwill arising on acquisitions and the seven days of 30th September.
Results of subsidiaries acquired or resulting translation differences are dealt with as movements disposed of during the year are incorporated from the effective on reserves.
date of acquisition or up to the date of their disposal.
c Translation differences on the excess of foreign currency The net assets of subsidiaries acquired are recorded at their fair borrowings over matching net assets adjusted to include goodwill values, reflecting their condition at that date, which gives rise to arising on acquisitions are taken to the profit and loss account.
d All other exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss Presentation of Financial Information account.
The Accounts have been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies adopted last year.
The Group continues to Tangible Fixed Assets comply with the transitional arrangements for the implementation Tangible fixed assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated of FRS 17, Retirement Benefits and, as permitted, to prepare its depreciation, adjusted for revaluations of certain properties at Accounts under SSAP 24 Accounting for Pension Costs.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Specialised buildings, being those constructed specifically for use a Goodwill arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions, in the business, are carried at historical cost less accumulated prior to the adoption of FRS 10 on 28th September, 1998, was depreciation.
written off against reserves in the year of acquisition.
On disposal or closure of businesses, goodwill previously written off against Non-specialised buildings are carried at their frozen 1994 valuations, reserves is taken through the profit and loss account in arriving as permitted by FRS 15, Tangible Fixed Assets, as adjusted for at the gain or loss on disposal.
subsequent additions, disposals, depreciation and impairment, if any.
b Goodwill arising on consolidation, in respect of acquisitions Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of tangible fixed made since 28th September, 1998, is capitalised and amortised assets by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful through the profit and loss account over the lower of their useful lives as follows: economic lives and a period of 20 years.
Freehold buildings and long leasehold properties 10 to 50 years c In calculating the goodwill, the total consideration, both Short leasehold properties Period of lease actual and deferred, is taken into account.
Where the deferred consideration is payable in cash, the liability is discounted to its Plant and equipment 3 to 25 years present value.
Where the deferred consideration is contingent and dependent upon future trading performance, an estimate of the Depreciation on freehold buildings and leasehold properties is based present value of the likely consideration payable is made.
This on cost, or valuation where properties have been re-valued.
Freehold contingent deferred consideration is re-assessed annually and land and assets in the course of construction are not depreciated.
corresponding adjustment is made to the goodwill arising on acquisition.
The difference between the present value and the total Leased Assets amount payable at a future date gives rise to a finance charge Where assets are financed by leasing agreements which give rights which is charged to the profit and loss account and credited to approximating to ownership, the assets are treated as if they had the liability over the period in which the consideration is deferred.
The present value of minimum lease payments The discount used approximates to market rates.
payable during the lease term is capitalised as a tangible asset and the corresponding leasing commitment is included in obligations d Impairment reviews of goodwill and other intangible assets are under finance leases.
Rentals payable are apportioned between carried out at the end of the first financial year after acquisition interest, which is charged to the profit and loss account, and and where there is any indication of impairment.
capital, which reduces the outstanding commitment.
47 Daily Mail and General Trust plc ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continued Rentals payable relating to all other leases are charged to the profit Pension Costs and loss account on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional arrangements of FRS 17, Retirement Benefits, which permit the costs, accruals Joint Ventures and Associates and prepayments recorded in the accounts to be reported under Joint ventures are those entities in which the Group holds a longthe requirements of SSAP 24, Accounting for Pension Costs.
This term interest and which is jointly controlled by the Group and one or is consistent with the basis adopted last year.
The cost of providing more venturers under a contractual arrangement.
Joint ventures pensions is calculated using actuarial valuation methods, which are accounted for using the gross equity method of accounting.
reflect the long-term costs of providing pensions.
Associates are those undertakings, other than subsidiaries and Thus, the amount charged to the profit and loss account is joint ventures in which the Group holds a long-term participating calculated so as to produce a substantially level percentage of the interest and exerts a significant influence.
The Groups share of current and future pensionable payroll.
Variations from the regular profits less losses of associates is included in the Groups profit cost so calculated are allocated to the profit and loss account over and loss account and the Groups share of their net assets, the average remaining service lives of employees.
together with goodwill arising on acquisition, is included in the Group balance sheet.
The additional disclosures required by FRS 17, Retirement Benefits, are explained in Note 37.
The basis in which these joint ventures and associates are equity accounted is set out in Note 22.
Financial Instruments The Group uses various derivative financial instruments to Investments manage its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
Listed and unlisted investments are held at cost, less any These have included currency swaps, forward foreign currency provision for impairment.
contracts, interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and interest rate floors.
The Group considers its derivative financial instruments to Investments in Group undertakings are held by the Company at be hedges and matches them with the relevant hedged item.
Cash cost, less any provision for impairment.
flows relating to these derivative financial transactions are netted against hedged transactions in the Cash flow statement within net Stocks and Work in Progress cash inflow from operating activities, or returns on investment and Stocks and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost and servicing of finance, or disclosed within financing, as appropriate.
Cost of work in progress includes overheads attributable to the cost of production.
Where forward foreign exchange contracts or cross currency swaps are used to hedge borrowings, the borrowings hedged are Deferred Taxation translated at the year end at the exchange rate implicit within the Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences that result in respective derivative.
Any exchange differences arising are taken an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to the profit and loss account to match the accounting treatment to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when of exchange gains or losses on the borrowings.
they crystallise, based on current tax rates and on law.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and Where forward foreign exchange contracts are used to hedge expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from future revenues or costs, the gain or loss is not recognised until those in which they are included in financial statements.
the revenues arise or the costs are incurred.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the Payments or receipts on interest rate swaps, caps or floors are revaluation of fixed assets where there is no commitment to sell accrued with interest payable.
The derivatives are not revalued.
the asset, or on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and associates Arrangement fees on Eurobonds are amortised over the estimated where there is no commitment to remit these earnings.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded Own Shares as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
The Companys own shares, held as treasury shares, are shown as a deduction from shareholders funds.
Timing differences arising on tax deductible goodwill written off to reserves are recognised.
Due to the indefinite nature of these timing differences the Group believes it appropriate to discount the resultant deferred tax assets and liabilities as they arise on businesses expected to be held for the long term.
As a consequence, all other deferred tax assets and liabilities are also discounted.
48 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
