Notes to the Group Financial Statements combination are measured initially at their fair values 1.
Authorisation of Financial Statements and at the acquisition date irrespective of the extent of any Statement of Compliance with IFRS minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition The Groups financial statements of Dana Petroleum over the fair value of the Groups share of the plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 were identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 12 If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value June 2006 and the balance sheet was signed on of the Groups share of the net assets of the subsidiary the Boards behalf by Thomas P Cross and acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the David A MacFarlane.
Dana Petroleum plc is a public income statement.
limited company incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled in Scotland.
The companys ordinary The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
of are included excluded in the consolidated income statement from the date on which control The Groups financial statements have been prepared legally passes.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year Joint Ventures ended 31 December 2005.
The principal accounting The Group is engaged in oil and gas exploration, policies adopted by the Group are set out in note 2. development and production through unincorporated joint ventures.
The Group accounts for its share of the results and net assets of these joint ventures as jointly 2.
Accounting Policies for the Group controlled assets.
In addition, where Dana acts as Financial Statements operator to the joint venture, the gross liabilities and The following accounting policies are applied receivables including amounts due to or from nonconsistently in dealing with items which are considered operating partners of the joint venture are included material in relation to the Groups financial statements.
in the Group balance sheet.
See note 33 for details of the initial application of IFRS, including IAS 32 and IAS 39 and the early REVENUE adoption of IFRS 6.
Revenue reflects actual sales value, net of VAT and overriding royalties, in respect of liftings sold.
Due BASIS OF ACCOUNTING to the fact that the Group follows the entitlement basis, The financial information has been prepared using adjustments in respect of overlift liftings greater than accounting policies consistent with IFRS and IFRIC production entitlement and underlift production Interpretations adopted by the European Union and entitlement greater than liftings are recorded those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable in against cost of sales at market value.
to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical Interest income is recognised on an accruals cost convention, except for certain fair value basis and is disclosed separately on the face adjustments required by those accounting policies.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements include the FOREIGN CURRENCIES financial statements of the Company and each of The functional currency for material subsidiaries its subsidiary undertakings having eliminated all is pounds sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies during the year are recorded in the functional currency at the rate Acquisitions of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Business combinations are dealt with on the basis of Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign the purchase method of accounting.
The cost of an currencies are translated into the functional currency acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
acquired or assets given up in the case of swap transactions, equity instruments issued and liabilities Exchange differences resulting from the translation of incurred or assumed at the date of completion of the assets and liabilities of foreign currency denominated acquisition, plus costs directly attributable to the subsidiaries into pounds sterling at year-end rates of acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities exchange, together with those differences resulting and contingent liabilities assumed in a business 40 | Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report from the restatement of profits and losses from average The equivalent combined carrying value of the CGU to year-end rates, are taken directly to the cumulative is compared against the CGUs recoverable amount translation reserve.
All other exchange differences and any resulting impairment loss is written off to the are taken to the income statement.
The recoverable amount of the CGU is determined as the higher of its fair value less costs Transactions denominated in local currencies are to sell and its value in use.
re-measured into the functional currency at the rate ruling on the date that they arose.
Property, Plant and Equipment - Development and Production Assets Capitalisation OIL AND GAS EXPENDITURE The Group accounts for oil and gas expenditure Development and production D&P assets are accumulated into single field cost centres and as follows: represent the cost of developing the commercial reserves and bringing them into production together Intangible Assets - Exploration and Evaluation Assets Capitalisation with the E&E expenditures incurred in finding commercial reserves previously transferred from Certain costs other than payments to acquire the legal right to explore incurred prior to acquiring the rights to E&E assets as outlined in the policy above.
explore are charged directly to the income statement.
All costs incurred after the rights to explore an area Depreciation Costs relating to each single field cost centre are have been obtained, such as geological and geophysical costs and other direct costs of exploration depleted on a unit of production method based on the commercial proven and probable reserves for that cost drilling, trenching, sampling and technical feasibility and commercial viability activities and appraisal are centre.
Development assets are not depreciated until production commences.
The amortisation calculation accumulated and capitalised as intangible exploration and evaluation E&E assets.
takes account of the estimated future costs of development of recognised proven and probable E&E costs are not amortised prior to the conclusion of reserves, based on current price levels.
Changes in reserve quantities and cost estimates are recognised appraisal activities.
At completion of appraisal activities if technical feasibility is demonstrated and commercial prospectively from the last reporting date.
reserves are discovered, then, following development sanction, the carrying value of the relevant E&E asset will Currently there are no significant items of property, plant and equipment deemed to have different useful lives.
be reclassified as a development and production asset, but only after the carrying value of the relevant E&E asset has been assessed for impairment, and where Impairment appropriate, its carrying value adjusted.
If after A review is performed for any indication that the value completion of appraisal activities in an area, it is not of the Groups D&P assets may be impaired.
possible to determine technical feasibility and commercial viability or if the legal right to explore expires or if the For D&P assets when there are such indications, an Company decides not to continue exploration and impairment test is carried out on the cash generating evaluation activity, then the costs of such unsuccessful unit.
Each cash generating unit is identified in exploration and evaluation is written off to the income accordance with IAS 36.
Danas cash generating units statement in the period the relevant events occur.
are those assets which generate largely independent cash flows and are normally, but not always, single Impairment development or production areas.
If necessary, If and when facts and circumstances indicate that additional depletion is charged through the income the carrying value of an E&E asset may exceed its statement if the capitalised costs of the cash recoverable amount an impairment review is generating unit exceed the associated estimated future performed.
discounted cash flows of the related commercial oil and gas reserves.
For E&E assets when there are such indications, an impairment test is carried out by grouping the E&E Asset Purchases and Disposals assets with the development & production assets When a commercial transaction involves the purchase belonging to the same geographic segment to form the of a D&P asset in exchange for an E&E asset, the Cash Generating Unit CGU for impairment testing.
transaction is accounted for at fair value with the Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report | 41 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued difference between fair value and cost being taken FINANCE COSTS AND DEBT to the income statement.
When a commercial Finance costs which are directly attributable to the transaction involves the exchange of E&E assets construction of D&P assets are capitalised as part of similar size and characteristics, no fair value of the cost of those assets.
The commencement of calculation is performed.
The capitalised costs of capitalisation begins when both finance costs and the asset being sold are transferred to the asset being expenditures in respect of the asset are incurred and acquired.
However, where the size and characteristics activities that are necessary to develop an asset are in of the E&E assets significantly differ, the transaction progress.
Capitalisation ceases when the development is accounted for at fair value with the difference is substantially complete.
between fair value and cost being taken to the income statement.
Finance costs of debt are allocated to periods over the term of the related debt at a constant rate on the Proceeds from the entire disposal of an E&E asset are carrying amount.
Arrangement fees and issue costs are deducted from the capitalised costs of the asset with amortised and charged to the income statement as any surplus deficit taken to the income statement as finance costs over the term of the debt.
Proceeds from a part disposal INVENTORIES of an E&E asset are deducted from the capitalised Inventories comprise materials and equipment, which cost of the asset with any surplus taken to the income are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
statement as a gain on sale.
Proceeds from the entire disposal of a D&P asset, TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES or any part thereof, are taken to the income statement Trade receivables are recognised and carried at the together with the requisite proportional net book value original invoiced amount.
Other receivables, excluding of the asset, or part thereof, being sold.
underlifted amounts, are measured at nominal value.
Underlifted amounts are measured at market value in accordance with industry practice.
DECOMMISSIONING The Group recognises the full discounted cost of decommissioning when the obligation to rectify TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES environmental damage arises, principally on Trade and other payables, excluding overlifted development sanction.
The amount recognised is amounts, are measured at cost.
Overlifted amounts the present value of the estimated future expenditure are measured at market value in accordance with determined in accordance with local conditions and industry practice.
A corresponding D&P asset of an amount equivalent to the provision is also created.
SHARE ISSUE EXPENSES AND SHARE This is subsequently depreciated as part of the capital PREMIUM ACCOUNT costs of the D&P asset.
Any change in the present Costs of share issues are written off against the value of the estimated expenditure is reflected as an premium arising on the issue of share capital.
adjustment to the provision and the D&P asset.
The unwinding of the discount on the decommissioning TAXATION provision is included as a finance cost.
Current Tax Current tax is recognised as a liability to the extent PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT unpaid or if the amount paid exceeds the amount due OTHER THAN D&P ASSETS it is recognised as an asset.
Current tax assets and Property, plant and equipment other than D&P liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be assets are stated in the balance sheet at cost less paid recovered from the taxation authorities, using tax accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated enacted by the reporting date.
residual value of each asset on a straight-line basis at the following annual rates: Deferred Tax Equipment 10% - 25% Deferred income tax is recognised on temporary Computer equipment 33% differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Group financial statements.
42 | Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report Deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises it must reduce the risk of foreign currency from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a exchange movements on the Groups operations.
transaction other than a business combination, that The rates under such contracts are used to record at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting the hedged item.
As a result, gains and losses are nor taxable profit or loss.
offset against the foreign exchange gains and losses on the related financial assets and liabilities, or where Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and the instrument is used to hedge a committed or laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted probable future transaction, are deferred until the by the reporting date.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the Interest Rate Swaps extent that it is probable that future income tax profit The Groups criteria for interest rate swaps are: will be available against which the temporary the instrument must be related to an asset differences can be utilised.
or a liability: and it must change the character of the interest rate Deferred income tax is provided on temporary by converting a variable rate to a fixed rate or differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, vice versa.
joint ventures and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled Interest differentials are recognised by accruing the net by the Group and it is probable that the temporary interest payable.
Interest rate swaps are not revalued difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
to fair value or shown on the Group balance sheet at the year end.
If they are terminated early, without settling the underlying liability, the gain loss is spread Petroleum Revenue Tax over the remaining maturity of the original instrument.
UK Petroleum Revenue Tax PRT is treated as an income tax and deferred PRT is calculated and provided Commodity Contracts for.
Current UK PRT is charged as a tax expense on Gains and losses arising on commodity contracts chargeable field profits included in the income are recognised in revenues from oil production when statement and is deductible for UK corporation tax.
PENSIONS Group Policy Applied Prospectively from The Group contributes to the personal pension 1 January 2005 IFRS arrangements of Executive Directors and employees up to a specified percentage of salary in lieu of a formal Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and corporate scheme.
Contributions in lieu of pensions are charged to the income statement as incurred.
are remeasured at their fair value at each subsequent reporting date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and AND HEDGING if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group The Group uses derivative financial instruments designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of the to manage its exposure to fluctuations in foreign fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm exchange rates, interest rates and movements commitment fair value hedge : hedges of highly in oil and gas prices.
probable forecast transactions cash flow hedges : or hedges of net investments in foreign operations Group Policy up to 31 December 2004 net investment hedge.
UK GAAP When derivative instruments are used, then the Fair value hedge : changes in the fair value of following definitions and accounting treatments apply.
derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together Forward Foreign Currency Contracts with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset The criteria for forward foreign currency contracts are: or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
the instrument must be related to a foreign currency asset or liability that is probable and whose characteristics have been identified: it must involve the same currency as the hedged item: and Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report | 43 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Cash flow hedge : the effective portion of changes in separate derivatives when their risks and the fair value of derivatives that are designated and characteristics are not closely related to those host qualify as hedges are recognised in equity.
The gain contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the Fair value estimation of financial instruments traded income statement in the periods when the hedged in active markets such as available-for-sale item will affect profit and loss for instance when the securities is based on quoted market prices at the forecast sale that is hedged takes place.
The fair value of foreign exchange when the forecast transaction that is hedged results contracts is determined using forward exchange in the recognition of a non-financial asset for market rates at the balance sheet date.
Other example, project costs or a major business financial instruments are valued using standard investment or a liability, the gains and losses pricing models or discounted cash flow techniques.
previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of OPERATING LEASES the cost of the asset or liability.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or the period of the lease.
when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in MAINTENANCE EXPENDITURE equity at that time remains in equity and is Expenditure on major maintenance, refits or repairs is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately capitalised where it enhances the life or performance recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast of an asset above its originally assessed standard of transaction is no longer expected to occur, the performance: replaces an asset or part of an asset cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity which was separately depreciated and which is then is immediately transferred to the income statement.
written off, or restores the economic benefits of an asset which has been fully depreciated.
All other Net investment hedge : hedges for net investments maintenance expenditure is charged to the income in foreign operations are delivered through derivatives statement as incurred.
and or foreign currency borrowings.
Any gain or loss on a derivative hedging instrument relating to CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, equity: the gain or loss relating to the ineffective deposits held at call with banks, other short-term portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in highly liquid investments with original maturities of the income statement.
Any gains or losses on foreign three months or less, and bank overdrafts.
Bank currency borrowings used as a hedge are recognised overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current in equity.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are liabilities on the balance sheet.
included in the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Derivatives not Qualifying for Hedge Accounting Share-based Payments.
In accordance with the Certain other derivative instruments, while providing transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all effective economic hedges under the Groups policies, grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 may not be designated as hedges at the Groups that had not vested as of 1 January 2005. discretion or if the required documentation standards have not been achieved.
Changes in the fair value of The Group issues both equity-settled and cash-settled such derivative instruments are recognised share-based payments as an incentive to certain key immediately in the income statement.
Equity-settled share-based The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial payments are measured at fair value at the date of instruments for speculative purposes.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based or non-derivative host contracts are treated as 44 | Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report on the Groups estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of an actuarial binomial model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioral considerations.
For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is recognised based on the current fair value determined at each reporting date and that portion of the employees services to which the payment relates that has been received by the reporting date.
NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS NOT APPLIED During the year, the IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements: International Accounting Standards IAS IFRS IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Effective Date: 1 January 2006 International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease Effective Date: 1 January 2006 The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of this standard and interpretation will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application.
Upon adoption of IFRS 7, the Group will have to disclose additional information about its financial instruments, their significance and the nature and extent of risks that they give rise to.
More specifically the Group will need to disclose the fair value of its financial instruments and its risk exposure in greater detail.
There will be no effect on reported income or net assets.
Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report | 45
