Notes to the Group Financial Statements combination are measured initially at their fair values 1.
Authorisation of Financial Statements and at the acquisition date irrespective of the extent of any Statement of Compliance with IFRS minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition The Groups financial statements of Dana Petroleum over the fair value of the Groups share of the plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 were identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 12 If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value June 2006 and the balance sheet was signed on of the Groups share of the net assets of the subsidiary the Boards behalf by Thomas P Cross and acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the David A MacFarlane.
Dana Petroleum plc is a public income statement.
limited company incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled in Scotland.
The companys ordinary The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
of are included excluded in the consolidated income statement from the date on which control The Groups financial statements have been prepared legally passes.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year Joint Ventures ended 31 December 2005.
The principal accounting The Group is engaged in oil and gas exploration, policies adopted by the Group are set out in note 2. development and production through unincorporated joint ventures.
The Group accounts for its share of the results and net assets of these joint ventures as jointly 2.
Accounting Policies for the Group controlled assets.
In addition, where Dana acts as Financial Statements operator to the joint venture, the gross liabilities and The following accounting policies are applied receivables including amounts due to or from nonconsistently in dealing with items which are considered operating partners of the joint venture are included material in relation to the Groups financial statements.
in the Group balance sheet.
See note 33 for details of the initial application of IFRS, including IAS 32 and IAS 39 and the early REVENUE adoption of IFRS 6.
Revenue reflects actual sales value, net of VAT and overriding royalties, in respect of liftings sold.
Due BASIS OF ACCOUNTING to the fact that the Group follows the entitlement basis, The financial information has been prepared using adjustments in respect of overlift liftings greater than accounting policies consistent with IFRS and IFRIC production entitlement and underlift production Interpretations adopted by the European Union and entitlement greater than liftings are recorded those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable in against cost of sales at market value.
to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical Interest income is recognised on an accruals cost convention, except for certain fair value basis and is disclosed separately on the face adjustments required by those accounting policies.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements include the FOREIGN CURRENCIES financial statements of the Company and each of The functional currency for material subsidiaries its subsidiary undertakings having eliminated all is pounds sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies during the year are recorded in the functional currency at the rate Acquisitions of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Business combinations are dealt with on the basis of Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign the purchase method of accounting.
The cost of an currencies are translated into the functional currency acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
acquired or assets given up in the case of swap transactions, equity instruments issued and liabilities Exchange differences resulting from the translation of incurred or assumed at the date of completion of the assets and liabilities of foreign currency denominated acquisition, plus costs directly attributable to the subsidiaries into pounds sterling at year-end rates of acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities exchange, together with those differences resulting and contingent liabilities assumed in a business 40 | Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report
