Company Report of the Auditors We have audited the parent Company financial We read other information contained in the Annual statements of Dana Petroleum plc for the year ended Report and consider whether it is consistent with the 31 December 2005 which comprise the Balance Sheet audited parent Company financial statements.
These parent Company The other information comprises only the Highlights, financial statements have been prepared under the Chairmans and Chief Executives Review, Review accounting policies set out therein.
We have also of Operations, Financial Review, Report of the audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Directors, unaudited part of the Report on Directors Report that is described as having been audited.
Remuneration, Proven and Probable Reserves Resources, and Exploration and Production Interests.
We have reported separately on the Group financial We consider the implications for our report if we statements of Dana Petroleum plc for the year ended become aware of any apparent mis-statements or 31 December 2005. material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend This report is made solely to the Companys members, to any other information.
as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been Basis of audit opinion undertaken so that we might state to the Companys We conducted our audit in accordance with members those matters we are required to state to International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence or assume responsibility to anyone other than the relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent Company and the Companys members as a body, Company financial statements and the part of the for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors preparation of the parent Company financial The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual statements, and of whether the accounting policies Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, parent Company financial statements in accordance consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain Accounting Practice as set out in the Statement all the information and explanations which we of Directors Responsibilities.
considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company the parent Company financial statements and the part financial statements and the part of the Directors of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance are free from material mis-statement, whether caused with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent Company We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent financial statements and the part of the Directors Company financial statements give a true and fair view Remuneration Report to be audited.
and whether the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Opinion be audited have been properly prepared in accordance In our opinion: with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, the parent Company financial statements give a true in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom with the parent Company financial statements, if the Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state Company has not kept proper accounting records, of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2005: if we have not received all the information and and explanations we require for our audit, or if information the parent Company financial statements and the specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be other transactions is not disclosed.
audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Ernst & Young LLP 12 June 2006 Registered Auditor Aberdeen Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report | 69
