Notes to the Company Financial Statements 34.
Accounting Policies These financial statements have been prepared in pounds sterling under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain Investments and financial Instruments in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Company are set out below together with an explanation of where changes have been made to previous policies on the adoption of new accounting standards in the year.
The following accounting policies are applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Companys financial statements.
CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES The Company has adopted FRS 20, Share-based payment, FRS 21, Events after the balance sheet date, FRS 22, Earnings per share, FRS 23 The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, FRS 25, Financial instruments: Disclosure and presentation, FRS 26, Financial instruments: Measurement, and FRS 28 Corresponding amounts, in these financial statements.
The adoption of each of these standards represents a change in accounting policy and the comparative figures have been restated accordingly except where the exemption to restate comparatives has been taken.
Details of the effect of the prior year adjustments are given in note 46.
DIVIDENDS Dividends received are included in the accounts in the period the related dividends are actually received.
TANGIBLE ASSETS AND DEPRECIATION Tangible assets are stated in the balance sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided on tangible assets to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset over its expected useful economic life on a straight-line basis at the following annual rates: Equipment 10% - 25% Computer equipment 33% INVESTMENTS Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries are included in the financial statements at cost less provisions for impairment.
DEFERRED TAXATION Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more or a right to pay less or to receive more tax, with the following exceptions: provision is made for tax on gains arising from the revaluation and similar fair value adjustments of fixed assets, and gains on disposal of fixed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is a binding agreement to dispose of the assets concerned.
However, no provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to tax only where the replacement assets are sold: provision is made for tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable: deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report | 71
