Accounting policies For the year ended 26 March 2005 Basis of Preparation The consolidated accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain fixed assets and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
The consolidated accounts have been prepared as at 26 March 2005, being the last Saturday in March.
The comparatives for the 2004 financial year are for the year ended 27 March 2004.
Basis of Consolidation The results of all of the subsidiaries of the Company have been fully consolidated.
The majority of these subsidiaries and the material associated companies prepare their annual financial statements to 26 March except for certain associated companies and subsidiaries whose year end is 31 December.
In the case of the subsidiary, whose financial statements are made up to 31 December, results for the year to 26 March 2005 have been fully consolidated.
The results of businesses acquired are included from the effective date of acquisition and the results of businesses sold are included up to the date of disposal.
Associated Companies An associated company is one in which the Group has a long-term investment and is in a position to exercise significant influence over the company in which the investment is made.
The Groups share of the profits less losses of associated companies is included in the consolidated profit and loss account.
Its interest in their net assets is included as an investment in the consolidated balance sheet at the Groups share of the net assets at acquisition plus the Groups share of retained profits.
Foreign Currencies Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the quoted rates of exchange at the year end.
The profits and losses of overseas subsidiaries and associated companies are translated into sterling at average rates for the year.
Differences arising from the restatement of the opening balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries and associates at closing rates, together with the year end adjustment to closing rates of profit and loss accounts translated at average rates, are taken to reserves.
Differences arising on foreign currency borrowings are taken to reserves to the extent that they are offset by the exchange differences arising from the restatement of the opening balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries and associates.
When currencies are sold or bought in relation to a trading transaction, the transaction is accounted for at the contracted rate of exchange.
All other exchange differences are included in the profit and loss account.
Turnover Group turnover represents sales to external customers of manufactured products and services which fall within the Groups ordinary trading activities.
This excludes VAT and other sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised in the profit and loss account when goods or services are supplied to external customers in accordance with the terms of sale.
When goods are supplied, this is when the significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer.
Goodwill Upon the acquisition of a business, fair values that reflect the conditions at the date of acquisition are attributed to the identifiable net assets acquired.
Where the consideration paid for a business exceeds such net assets, the difference is treated as goodwill and is capitalised and amortised over an appropriate period not exceeding 20 years.
For acquisitions prior to 1 April 1998 all goodwill is eliminated in the Group balance sheet against reserves.
On disposal of a business, the profit or loss on disposal is determined after including the attributable amount of purchased goodwill to the extent that this has not been amortised through the profit and loss account.
Negative goodwill is capitalised and amortised through the profit and loss account over the estimated life to which the goodwill relates.
Other Intangible Assets Distribution rights are amortised over their useful economic lives as determined by the life of the products to which they relate.
Tangible Fixed Assets and Depreciation Fixed assets are stated at cost or at valuation, less depreciation.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
Freehold and long leasehold buildings are depreciated at a rate of two per cent per annum.
Other leasehold interests are depreciated over the unexpired period of the lease.
A long leasehold is defined as one in which the remaining term of the lease is more than 50 years.
38 fide La Rue Annual Report Accounts The Groups policy is to write off the cost or valuation of all other plant and equipment evenly over their estimated remaining useful life at rates which vary between 8 per cent and 50 per cent per annum.
The principal annual rates of depreciation used are 10 per cent on plant and machinery, 10 per cent on fixtures and fittings, and 33 per cent on tooling and computer equipment.
No depreciation is provided for assets in the course of construction.
The Directors have not adopted a policy of revaluing tangible fixed assets as permitted by FRS 15.
Asset Impairment Intangible and tangible fixed assets are tested for impairment when an event that might affect asset values has occurred.
An impairment loss is recognised in the profit and loss account to the extent that the carrying amount cannot be recovered either by selling the asset or by the discounted future earnings from operating the assets.
Leasing Where fixed assets are financed by leasing agreements which give rights approximately equivalent to ownership finance leases, the assets are capitalised and depreciated over their estimated remaining useful lives.
The corresponding lease commitments are treated as obligations to the lessor and the interest elements of the finance lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Research and Development Product research and development expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Taxation The Group accounts for taxation which is deferred or accelerated by reason of timing differences which have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that they are considered recoverable against future taxable profits.
Deferred tax on the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries is only provided when there is a binding commitment to distribute past earnings in future periods.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse.
Deferred tax liabilities and assets are not discounted.
Stocks Stocks and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost, including relevant production overheads, and net realisable value.
Pensions The costs of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes are charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost of pensions over the service lives of employees.
The pension costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries.
Actuarial surpluses and deficits are spread forward over the average remaining service lives of employees.
The Groups post-retirement benefit schemes are accounted for in a similar manner to the pension schemes, as described above.
The costs of the Groups defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the profit and loss account as the contributions are incurred.
Cash Flow Statement The Group cash flow statement and notes thereto are prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 1 Revised.
Liquid resources comprise shortterm bank deposits, except those available on demand.
Share Option Schemes The Groups Employee Share Ownership Trusts are separately administered trusts.
Liabilities of the Trusts are guaranteed by the Company and the assets of the Trusts mainly comprise shares in the Company.
The Companys shares held by the trusts are shown as a reduction in Shareholders funds.
The shares will be held at historical rates until such time as they are disposed of.
Any profit or loss on the disposal of own shares is treated as a movement in reserves rather than as a profit and loss item.
fide La Rue Annual Report Accounts 39
