PRELIMINARY IFRS OPENING BALANCE SHEET AS AT 27 SEPTEMBER 2004 Implementation of IFRS First-time application Property plant & equipment The Group is required to prepare accounts The Group has adopted IFRS from 27 The cost of tangible fixed assets represents for the year ending 24 September 2006 September 2004 with the exception of IAS the actual purchase price paid.
Cost in accordance with International Financial 32 and IAS 39.
In accordance with IFRS includes gross interest on capital invested Reporting Standards IFRS.
As a result, the 1 the Group is entitled to a number of in major property development and directly Groups first IFRS results will be published voluntary and mandatory exemptions from attributable costs up to the date of opening in respect of the half-year to 26 March 2006. full restatement, which have been adopted for trade.
as follows: Within each of these financial statements Depreciation is calculated on a straightBusiness combinations comparative information will be disclosed line basis over the estimated useful life of The basis of accounting for pre-transition for the relevant period of the financial the asset to write the asset down to its combinations under UK GAAP has not year ending on 25 September 2005.
The initial carrying amount comparative information will also need to be applied at the following rates: of assets and liabilities acquired in such disclosed under IFRS.
Consequently the start business combinations is deemed to be Per annum of the Groups comparative period under equivalent to cost.
IFRS, the Transition date, is 27 September Hotels and health & 2004. fitness buildings 2% Property, plant and equipment Other properties 2% The Group has elected to retain UK GAAP This section of the Annual Report & Accounts Production plant 5%-20% carrying values of freehold and leasehold has been included to provide an update as properties including revaluations as deemed Motor vehicles 10%-50% to the effect of IFRS on the balance sheet at cost at transition.
For convenience the IFRS Fixtures and fittings 5%-20% disclosures provided will be referred to as the Employee benefits Preliminary IFRS Opening Balance Sheet as Asset lives and residual values are kept The cumulative net deficit on defined benefit at 27 September 2004.
This section includes under regular review to ensure they remain pension schemes at transition date has been an audited opening balance sheet as at appropriate.
recognised in full in equity.
27 September 2004 and the accounting policies to be applied to the interim and full Leasehold properties are depreciated over Share-based payments year results and balance sheets for 2005. the shorter of 50 years or their remaining IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of useful lives.
equity instruments after 7 November 2002 The Preliminary IFRS Opening Balance Sheet that had not vested at 1 January 2005. as at 27 September 2004 has been audited The carrying values of tangible fixed assets by Ernst and Young LLP.
Their report, which are reviewed for impairment in periods Basis of consolidation draws attention to the fact that there is a if events or changes in circumstances The consolidated balance sheet combines possibility that the Preliminary IFRS Opening indicate that the carrying value may not be the accounts of the Company and its Balance Sheet may require adjustment before recoverable.
subsidiary undertakings which are prepared constituting final IFRS Accounts and that up to 26 September 2004 and represent the only a complete set of Accounts can provide Assets under construction are not operations of the Group for a period of 52 a fair presentation of the Groups financial depreciated until they are ready for use.
Results of subsidiary undertakings position, is set out on page 64. and businesses acquired or sold during When an asset is fully depreciated and no the year are included from or up to their The significant changes as a result of the longer in use both the gross amount and the respective dates of acquisition or disposal.
transition to IFRS and of adopting the IFRS aggregate depreciation are eliminated from Group accounting policies are discussed in the Accounts.
Investments in associates & joint ventures the IFRS Opening balance sheet adjustments Investments in both associates and joint section.
Inventories ventures are accounted for using the equity Inventories are carried at the lower of cost method of accounting.
The investments Accounting policies and net realisable value.
Cost comprises are carried in the balance sheet at cost plus Basis of preparation expenditure directly incurred in purchasing the post acquisition changes in the Groups The Preliminary IFRS Opening balance sheet or manufacturing stock and includes an share of net assets of the investment, less has been prepared on the basis of IFRS appropriate amount of overhead.
The value any impairment in value.
expected to be in issue at 24 September attributed to timeshare inventories is the cost 2006.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group of building the lodges apportioned to each The income statement will reflect the will apply IAS 32 Financial Instruments: week on the basis of the selling price for increase or decrease in the Groups share of Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 that week.
The selling price for each week is net assets of associate or joint venture.
In Financial Instruments: Recognition and dependent upon seasonality.
the event that the associate or joint venture Measurement as adopted by the EU from investment is written down to a nil value, 26 September 2005.
Certain operating supplies are treated as a no further losses from the investment will be base stock and renewals and replacements recognised in the income statement unless of such stock are written-off to the income the Group has an obligation to contribute statement as incurred.
60 I fide VERE GROUP PLC I PRELIMINARY IFRS OPENING BALANCE SHEET Cash and cash equivalents Assets which are subject to finance leases The cost of the equity-settled transactions Cash and short-term deposits in the balance are capitalised at the present value of the is recognised in the income statement sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand minimum lease payments and the related together with a corresponding increase in and short-term deposits with an original depreciation charged to the income equity, on a straight-line basis from the date maturity of three months or less.
Lease payments are analysed the awards are granted to the date they between the capital element and the interest vest.
The cumulative expense recognised for Interest bearing loans and element, which is charged to the income equity-settled transactions at each reporting borrowing costs statement so as to achieve a constant rate date reflects the extent to which the All loans and borrowings are initially of interest on the remaining balance of the vesting period has elapsed and the Groups recognised at cost, being the fair value of liability.
best estimate of the number of equity the consideration received net of issue costs instruments that will ultimately vest.
Rental payments in respect of operating If the terms of an equity-settled award are leases are charged to the income statement modified, as a minimum the expense is Pensions on a straight-line basis.
In the event that recognised as if the terms had not been The Groups contributions to its defined any operating lease agreements specify a modified.
An additional expense would also benefit pension schemes are paid into minimum future increase in rentals, the be recognised in respect of the modification separately administered funds.
The cost future minimum additional costs is spread if the fair value of the share-based payment of providing benefits under schemes is on a straight-line basis over the period of the award is enhanced by the modification.
The determined separately for each scheme entire lease.
enhancement would be measured as at the using a market-related projected unit credit date of the modification.
A charge, as Revenue calculated by the scheme actuary, is made Revenue is the value of goods and services If an equity-settled award is cancelled, the to the income statement in respect of sold to third parties after deducting full cost of the award would be treated as the current service cost and interest cost, discounts and sales based taxes.
Revenue if it had vested on the date of cancellation.
net of the expected return on assets.
Past in respect of hotel accommodation is If a new award is deemed to replace the service costs or any effects of curtailments recognised at the point at which the service cancelled award then the new award would or settlements are charged to the income is rendered.
be treated as a modification of the original statement if and when they are incurred.
Joining fees in respect of health & fitness Actuarial gains and losses are recognised, Dividends memberships are recognised when they in the period in which they arise, in the Dividends proposed by the Board of directors are received on the basis that they are not statement of recognised income and but unpaid at a period end are only provided refundable.
All other fees are recognised expenditure.
for to the extent that they have already been over the membership period.
Payments in respect of defined contribution Management fees are recognised on an pension schemes are charged to the income Income tax accruals basis in accordance with the terms statement as incurred.
Current tax of the relevant agreement.
Current tax assets and liabilities for the Provisions current and prior periods are measured Revenue for the sales of timeshare lodges Provisions are recognised when the at the amount expected to be paid or is recognised at the later of the time of sale Group has a present obligation legal or recovered using the current tax rates and or the date the building work on the lodge constructive as a result of a past event, it tax laws enacted or substantially enacted at is substantially complete.
Due allowance is is probable that an outflow of resources the balance sheet date.
Current tax relating then made for sales which may be cancelled embodying economic benefits will be to items recognised directly in equity are by customers.
required to settle the obligation and a recognised in equity and not in the income reliable estimate can be made of the amount statement.
Employee incentive plans of the obligation.
Provision is made for The cost of equity-settled transactions with Deferred tax future rental expenses and related costs of employees is measured by reference to the Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all leasehold property net of estimated sublease fair value at the date on which they are taxable temporary differences, except: income where space is either vacant or not granted.
The value of options issued under planned to be used for ongoing operations.
the Sharesave scheme are measured at fair where the deferred tax liability arises from value at the date of grant using the Blackthe initial recognition of goodwill or of Leases Scholes formula.
The awards under both an asset or liability in a transaction that A lease is classified as a finance lease if the Executive Share Option scheme and the is not a business combination and, at the substantially all the risks and rewards Employee Co-investment plan are measured time of the transaction, affects neither the incidental to ownership of the leased item at fair value at the date of grant using a accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: are transferred to the Group.
All other leases Monte Carlo simulation model.
and are classified as operating leases.
PRELIMINARY IFRS OPENING BALANCE SHEET I ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 I 61 PRELIMINARY IFRS OPENING BALANCE SHEET CONTINUED in respect of taxable temporary differences Forward foreign currency contracts The areas most affected by the conversion to associated with investments in subsidiaries, The criteria for forward foreign currency IFRS are as follows: associates and interests in joint ventures, contracts are: where the timing of the reversal of the Deferred tax Under IAS 12 deferred temporary differences can be controlled the instrument must be related to a firm taxation also needs to be provided on and it is probable that the temporary foreign currency commitment: revaluations and rolled over gains, both differences will not reverse in the agreed and estimated, in addition to the foreseeable future.
it must involve the same currency as the timing differences specified under UK hedged item: and GAAP.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, the carry it must reduce the risk of foreign currency P ensions the pension scheme deficit and forward of unused tax credits and unused exchange movements on the Groups related deferred tax asset have been fully tax losses, to the extent that it is probable operations.
provided for in the transitional balance that taxable profits will be available against sheet.
which the deductible temporary differences, The rates under such contracts are used to the carry forward of unused tax assets and record the hedged item.
As a result, gains Dividends the final dividend for 2004 is unused tax losses can be utilised, except: and losses are offset against the foreign not deemed to be a liability as at the yearexchange gains and losses on the related end date and is therefore excluded from where the deferred income tax asset financial assets and liabilities, or where the the transitional balance sheet as at 27 relating to the deductible temporary instrument is used to hedge a committed September 2004. difference arises from the initial recognition future transaction, are not recognised until of an asset or liability in a transaction that the transaction occurs.
S hare based payments in future periods is not a business combination and, at the a charge to the income statement will be time of the transaction, affects neither the Interest rate swaps made under IFRS 2 in respect of options accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: The Groups criteria for interest rate swaps issued since 7 November 2002 that have and are: not vested prior to 1 January 2005.
As all the Groups share based payments are in respect of deductible temporary the instrument must be related to an asset Equity settled, in the opening balance sheet differences associated with investments or a liability: and there is only an adjustment for the deferred in subsidiaries, associates and interests tax asset on the pre-January 2005 charge.
in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are it must change the character of the recognised only to the extent that it is interest rate by converting a variable rate Greens impairment under UK GAAP probable that the temporary differences to a fixed rate or vice versa.
the entire Greens portfolio is considered will reverse in the foreseeable future and to be one income generating unit.
As a taxable profit will be available against Interest differentials are recognised by consequence no impairment was booked which the temporary differences can be accruing with net interest payable.
Interest in the year to September 2004.
rate swaps are not revalued to fair value contrast, under IAS 36, each Greens site or shown on the Group balance sheet at is considered a separate cash-generating The carrying amount of deferred tax assets the year-end.
If they are terminated early, unit.
Consequently an impairment of is reviewed at each balance sheet date and any gain loss is spread over the remaining 5.6 million net of deferred tax has been reduced to the extent that it is no longer maturity of the original instrument.
reflected, in respect of two of the clubs, as probable that sufficient taxable profit will be at 27 September 2004. available to allow all or part of the deferred IFRS Opening balance sheet adjustments tax asset to be utilised.
The Groups transitional IFRS balance sheet, Leases to the extent that an operating as at 27 September 2004, has been audited lease agreement specifies a minimum Deferred tax assets and liabilities are by Ernst & Young LLP.
The adoption of IFRS future increase in annual cost, IAS 17 measured at the tax rates that are expected has led to a reduction in net assets, as requires the future minimum additional to apply to the year when the asset is illustrated in the table below: cost to be spread on a straight-line basis realised or the liability settled, base on tax over the period of the entire lease.
As a m rates and tax laws enacted or substantially consequence the opening net assets under enacted at the balance sheet date.
IFRS must be reduced to reflect a higher UK GAAP net assets at charge in the early years of the lease.
26 Sept 2004 597.8 Derivatives Deferred tax IAS 12 91.2 The Group uses forward foreign currency contracts to reduce exposure to foreign Pension scheme deficit IAS 19 23.7 exchange rates.
The Group also uses Remove final dividend accrual IAS 10 10.2 interest rate swaps to adjust interest rate Share based payments IFRS 2 0.1 exposures.
The Group considers its derivative instruments qualify for hedge accounting Greens impairment IAS 36 5.6 when certain criteria are met.
Leases IAS 17 2.1 IFRS net assets at 27 Sept 2004 485.5 62 I fide VERE GROUP PLC I PRELIMINARY IFRS OPENING BALANCE SHEET IFRS Opening Balance Sheet as at 27 September 2004 Note 2 Note 2 Remove Note 2 UK GAAP Note 1 Pension Final Share Note 2 Note 2 IFRS in IFRS Reclass Scheme Dividend Based Deferred Greens Note 2 Balance Formatifications deficit 2004 Payments Tax Impairment Leases Sheet 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Assets Non-current assets Property, plant & equipment 837,841 6,925 830,916 Investments 10,155 10,155 Deferred tax asset 9,785 1,347 11,132 Debtors: amounts due in more than one year 8,592 8,592 856,588 9,785 5,578 860,795 Current assets Inventories 12,850 12,850 Trade receivables 19,875 19,875 Other current assets 26,111 910 25,201 Current tax 9,374 9,374 Cash & Cash equivalents 5,284 5,284 Non-current asset held for sale 14,049 14,049 87,543 910 86,633 Liabilities Current liabilities Trade and other payable 84,200 10,165 106 74,141 Short-term borrowings 6,758 6,758 Short-term provisions 800 800 90,958 800 10,165 106 81,699 Non-current liabilities Long-term borrowings 201,220 201,220 Deferred tax 47,018 146 91,192 138,064 Pension provisions 32,615 32,615 Long-term provisions 7,154 800 6,354 Other liabilities 2,005 2,005 255,392 800 32,615 146 91,192 2,005 380,258 Net assets 597,781 23,740 10,165 146 91,192 5,578 2,111 485,471 Equity Share capital 25,579 25,579 Other reserves 282,318 282,318 Revaluation reserve 95,867 95,867 Retained earnings 194,017 95,867 23,740 10,165 146 91,192 5,578 2,111 177,574 Total equity 597,781 23,740 10,165 146 91,192 5,578 2,111 485,471 The amount recorded directly in equity for the cumulative share-based payments charge for the years ending 28 September 2003 and 26 September 2004 is 484,000.
Note 1 The reclassifications consist of the realisation of the revaluation reserve arising from the adopted accounting policy for property, plant & equipment: under IFRS short-term provisions and long-term provisions are disclosed separately, consequently 0.8m of provisions have been transferred from long-term to short-term.
Note 2 Transitional adjustments are explained within the IFRS Opening balance sheet adjustments narrative on page 62.
PRELIMINARY IFRS OPENING BALANCE SHEET I ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 I 63 PRELIMINARY IFRS OPENING BALANCE SHEET CONTINUED Independent Auditors Report to Basis of audit opinion IFRS impact on 2005 results fide Vere Group Plc on the preliminary We conducted our audit in accordance with The preparation of the 2005 trading results IFRS opening balance sheet United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued under IFRS is ongoing.
To date, the most as at 27 September 2004 by the Auditing Practices Board.
Those significant issues arising include share based We have audited the accompanying Standards require that we plan and perform payments, pensions and deferred tax.
preliminary IFRS opening balance sheet of the audit to obtain reasonable assurance fide Vere Group Plc The Company as at about whether the preliminary IFRS In respect of share based payments, the 27 September 2004 the IFRS opening opening balance sheet is free of material annual charge in the income statement balance sheet and the related accounting misstatement.
An audit includes examining, for the year to 25 September 2005 is policies note set out on pages 60 to 62. on a test basis, evidence supporting the 0.8 million before taxation.
amounts and disclosures in the preliminary This report is made solely to the Company IFRS opening balance sheet.
An audit also The movement in the pension deficit due in accordance with our engagement letter includes assessing the accounting principles to changes in the actuarial assumptions of dated 18 October 2005.
Our audit work has used and significant estimates made by approximately 5 million net of deferred tax been undertaken so that we might state to management, as well as evaluating the will reduce the closing equity in 2005 and the Company those matters we are required overall presentation of the preliminary IFRS be disclosed in the Statement of Recognised to state to them in an auditors report and opening balance sheet.
We believe that our Income and Expense.
To the fullest extent audit provides a reasonable basis for our permitted by law, we do not accept or opinion.
There will be movements in deferred tax assume responsibility or liability to anyone due to three major items.
Capital gains on other than the Company for our audit work, Emphasis of matter the sale of The Belfry will be rolled over for this report, or for the opinions we have Without qualifying our opinion, we draw into capital expenditure and, although formed.
attention to the fact that the implementation no tax is payable, under IFRS deferred tax of IFRS note explains why there is a amounting to 14 million will be chargeable.
Respective responsibilities of possibility that the preliminary IFRS opening The reduction in book value due to the directors and auditors balance sheet may require adjustment before impairment reduces the overall deferred This preliminary IFRS opening balance constituting the final IFRS opening balance potential capital gains tax liability by sheet is the responsibility of the Companys sheet.
Moreover, we draw attention to the 8.3 million and at the year-end a directors and has been prepared as part of fact that, under IFRSs only a complete set reassessment of the element of gains from the Companys conversion to IFRS.
It has of financial statements with comparative the sale of the pub estate to be rolled over been prepared in accordance with the basis financial information and explanatory releases 15 million.
set out in the accounting policies note, notes can provide a fair presentation of which describes how IFRS have been applied the Companys financial position, results of The Group will only be adopting IAS 32 under IFRS 1, including the assumptions operations and cash flows in accordance & 39, the standards covering financial management has made about the standards with IFRSs.
instruments, from 26 September 2005. and interpretations expected to be effective, Consequently, there will be no impact in and the policies expected to be adopted, Opinion the year to 25 September 2005.
Having when management prepares its first In our opinion, the preliminary IFRS opening considered the implication of the standards complete set of IFRS financial statements as balance sheet has been prepared, in all alongside the documentation of the interest at 24 September 2006. material respects, in accordance with the rate swap contracts, the Group considers basis set out in the accounting policies note, that hedge accounting is appropriate for Our responsibility is to express an which describes how IFRS have been applied future periods and it is therefore expected independent opinion on the preliminary under IFRS 1, including the assumptions there will be no requirement to mark-toIFRS opening balance sheet based on our management has made about the standards market the financial instruments and take audit.
We read the other information and interpretations expected to be effective, the resulting charge credit to the income accompanying the preliminary IFRS opening and the policies expected to be adopted, statement.
balance sheet and consider whether it is when management prepares its first consistent with the preliminary IFRS opening complete set of IFRS financial statements as The necessary resource is in place to balance sheet.
This other information at 24 September 2006. complete the 2005 comparatives in advance comprises the impact of IFRS on 2005 of the 2006 interim statement.
We consider the implications for our 2005 comparatives will be published at the report if we become aware of any apparent Ernst & Young LLP time of the 2006 interim statements.
misstatements or material inconsistencies Registered Auditor with the preliminary opening IFRS balance Manchester sheet.
Our responsibilities do not extend to 30 November 2005 any other information.
64 I fide VERE GROUP PLC I PRELIMINARY IFRS OPENING BALANCE SHEET
