ACCOUNTING POLICIES which form an integral part of the Accounts Basis of Accounts Depreciation is not provided on freehold Deferred taxation The Accounts have been prepared in land.
Full provision is made for deferred tax assets accordance with applicable United Kingdom and liabilities arising from timing differences, accounting standards under the historical Depreciation is provided to write-off the cost between the recognition of gains and cost convention with the exception of hotel or valuation of all other fixed assets over losses in the financial statements and their and health & fitness properties which, their useful lives to their estimated residual recognition in tax computations, with the under the transitional provisions of FRS 15 values and is calculated by the straight-line exception of timing differences arising from Tangible Fixed Assets, are included at their method at the following rates: the revaluation of, or gains rolled over into 1999 valuations.
Since 1999 it has been fixed assets for which there is no binding Per annum Group policy not to revalue fixed assets.
agreement to sell or on the undistributed profits of overseas subsidiaries.
Deferred Hotels and health & Basis of consolidation tax is calculated at the rates at which it is fitness buildings 2% The consolidated profit and loss account and estimated the tax will arise.
The deferred tax Other properties 2% balance sheet combine the Accounts of the provision has not been discounted to net Company and its subsidiary undertakings present values.
Production plant 5%-20% which are prepared up to 25 September Motor vehicles 10%-50% 2005 and represent the operations of Deferred tax assets are recognised only to Fixtures and fittings 5%-20% the Group for a period of 52 weeks.
the extent that the Directors consider that In accordance with Section 230 of the it is more likely than not that there will be Companies Act 1985, no separate profit and Leasehold properties are depreciated over suitable taxable profits from which the future loss account is presented for the Company.
the shorter of 50 years or their remaining reversal of the underlying timing differences useful lives.
Results of subsidiary undertakings and businesses acquired or sold during the year The carrying values of tangible fixed assets Turnover are included from or up to their respective are reviewed for impairment in periods Turnover is the value of goods and services dates of acquisition or disposal.
if events or changes in circumstances sold to third parties after deducting indicate that the carrying value may not be discounts and sales based taxes.
Entities which are jointly controlled by the recoverable.
Group and one or more other ventures Joining fees in respect of health & fitness under a contractual arrangement are treated Assets under construction are not memberships are accounted for when as joint ventures.
In the Group accounts, depreciated until they are ready for use.
received on the basis that they are not joint ventures are accounted for using the refundable.
All other fees and subscriptions gross equity method.
When an asset is fully depreciated and no are recognised over the membership period.
longer in use both the gross amount and the For acquisitions prior to September 1998, aggregate depreciation are eliminated from Sales of timeshares are recognised at the the difference between the purchase the Accounts.
later of the time of sale or the date building consideration and the fair value of work on the lodge is substantially complete.
identifiable net assets at the date of Stocks Due allowance is then made for sales which acquisition was dealt with as a movement Stocks are valued at the lower of cost may be cancelled by customers.
On subsequent disposal of and net realisable value.
Cost comprises such businesses such goodwill is taken into expenditure directly incurred in purchasing Pensions account in determining the profit or loss on or manufacturing stock and includes an Pension costs relating to the Group defined sale or closure.
benefit scheme are charged to the profit and loss account in accordance with the advice Tangible fixed assets and depreciation The value attributed to timeshare stock is the of independent qualified actuaries based on The cost of tangible fixed assets represents cost of building the lodges apportioned to an assessment of the current and expected the actual purchase price paid.
Cost each week on the basis of the selling price future pensionable payroll.
includes gross interest on capital invested for that week.
The selling price for each in major property development and directly week is dependent upon seasonality.
Actuarial valuations of the pension scheme attributable costs up to the date of opening are carried out every three years and surpluses for trade.
Certain operating supplies are treated as a or deficiencies calculated on a best estimate base stock and renewals and replacements basis are amortised over the remaining Fixtures and fittings also contain items of of such stock are written-off to the profit service lives of the members, except where plant, machinery and equipment including and loss account as incurred.
there is a significant reduction in the number computers.
of employees in the scheme.
Differences between the amount charged in the profit and loss account and the payments made to the schemes are treated as provisions or prepayments in the balance sheet.
32 I fide VERE GROUP PLC I ACCOUNTING POLICIES Payments to money purchase pensions Interest rate swaps schemes are charged as incurred.
The Groups criteria for interest rate swaps are: Leases Assets which are subject to finance leases the instrument must be related to an asset are capitalised and the related depreciation or a liability: and charged to the profit and loss account.
Lease payments are treated as consisting of interest it must change the character of the and capital, interest being charged to the interest rate by converting a variable rate profit and loss account over the term of the to a fixed rate or vice versa.
lease on an actuarial basis.
Rental payments in respect of operating leases are charged to Interest differentials are recognised by the profit and loss account on a straight-line accruing with net interest payable.
rate swaps are not revalued to fair value or shown on the Group balance sheet at Property provision the year-end.
If they are terminated early, Provision is made for future rental expenses any gain loss is spread over the remaining and related costs of leasehold property net maturity of the original instrument.
of estimated sub lease income where space is either vacant or not planned to be used for ongoing operations.
Derivatives The Group uses forward foreign currency contracts to reduce exposure to foreign exchange rates.
The Group also uses interest rate swaps to adjust interest rate exposures.
The Group considers its derivative instruments qualify for hedge accounting when certain criteria are met.
Forward foreign currency contracts The criteria for forward foreign currency contracts are: the instrument must be related to a firm foreign currency commitment: it must involve the same currency as the hedged item: and it must reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements on the Groups operations.
The rates under such contracts are used to record the hedged item.
As a result, gains and losses are offset against the foreign exchange gains and losses on the related financial assets and liabilities, or where the instrument is used to hedge a committed future transaction, are not recognised until the transaction occurs.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES I ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 I 33
