Chief executives review Diageo is the worlds leading premium drinks business operating We have improved our global sales force performance and ways of in over 180 markets.
For the fifth year running, we have improved working with our customers.
We are building more agile sales teams, our key organic financial measures, delivering organic net sales stronger commercial management and improved execution of retail growth of 4% and organic operating profit growth of 7%.
These initiatives will drive both our success and the value strong operating margins and have posted a further margin we add to our customers businesses.
Globally, our largest customers expansion of 0.6 percentage points.
Cash ow remains strong, are Wal-Mart, Tesco, Metro and Carrefour three of which put on and return on invested capital is up once again.
record their appreciation of our service during the year.
Our brands are the essence of great occasions an integral We support our people, helping them to full their potential part of times to celebrate and great moments to remember.
and achieve their career and personal goals.
Our talented people Many of our brands are steeped in history.
Each is a legacy are passionate about our company and help us to generate which passes down through the generations on which we momentum behind our brands.
work tirelessly to build and enhance.
We take our role as a good corporate citizen seriously.
We believe that promoting responsible drinking is fundamental to the Brand building way we conduct business.
We also play an important role in the We continue to invest in brand building through marketing, lives of people and communities worldwide from the Diageo premiumisation and innovation where we have a programme Africa Business Reporting Awards through to our association that is bold, fast and responsive.
The launch of Smirnoff Cranberry with the G8 Summit at Gleneagles, we regularly demonstrate Twist and extensions such as Bells Special Reserve, Captain Morgan our commitment to behaving as one of the worlds most trusted Tattoo and Johnnie Walker Green Label are only a few of the and respected companies.
highlights that our innovation team delivered in the year.
Looking ahead I was particularly pleased to nalise our partnership with the I am confident that the acquisition of Bushmills Irish whiskey McLaren Mercedes Formula 1 team, which resulted in the Johnnie which was completed shortly after the financial year end will Walker brand appearing on cars, international circuits and in t well into our collection of brands, as did our purchase during supporting marketing and promotions.
I certainly look forward the year of the Ursus vodka brands and The Chalone Wine Group.
to seeing Johnnie Walker on the winners podium around the world in the years to come.
This programme augments our sports These acquisitions illustrate our ability to act swiftly as and when sponsorship agenda which includes: golf through the Johnnie opportunities emerge to enhance our collection of brands.
Walker Classic and Championship, the Johnnie Walker Super However, I believe the majority of our growth will continue Series cricket, Crown Royal and North America Stock Car Racing to be organic.
NASCAR, Guinness and rugby through the Lions Tour and What follows is a review of our activities and performance Guinness Premiership, and Bundaberg and rugby.
over the past financial year.
The operating and financial review begins on page 23.
Our organisation Thank you for your continued support.
Early in the year Diageo moved to a new regional structure and started to build teams to support our North America, Europe and International operations.
As a result of this restructuring, we believe we are now better placed to allocate resources quickly and simply behind the fastest growing opportunities.
Paul Walsh Chief executive Diageo Annual Report 2005 3 Chief executives review Five year information The following table presents selected consolidated financial data for Diageo for the five years ended 30 June 2005 and as at the respective year ends.
The UK GAAP and the US GAAP data for the five years ended 30 June 2005 have been derived from Diageos audited consolidated financial statements.
