Accounting policies Bases of accounting and consolidation The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention, modied by the revaluation of certain land and buildings, and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
The group accounts include the accounts of the company and its subsidiary undertakings subsidiaries together with the groups attributable share of the results of joint arrangements and associated undertakings associates.
Unless otherwise stated, the acquisition method of accounting has been adopted.
Under this method, the results of subsidiaries sold or acquired are included in the profit and loss account up to, or from, the date control passes.
Acquisitions and disposals On the acquisition of a business, or of an interest in an associate, fair values, reecting conditions at the date of acquisition, are attributed to the net assets including significant owned brands acquired.
Adjustments to fair values include those made to bring accounting policies into line with those of the group.
Where merger relief is applicable under the UK Companies Acts, the difference between the fair value of the business acquired and the nominal value of shares issued as purchase consideration is treated as a merger reserve.
The profit and loss on the disposal of a previously acquired business includes the attributable amount of purchased goodwill relating to that business, including any goodwill written off direct to reserves prior to 1 July 1998.
Brands, goodwill and other intangible assets Acquired brands and other intangible assets which are controlled through custody or legal rights and could be sold separately from the rest of the business are capitalised, where fair value can be reliably measured.
When the cost of an acquisition exceeds the fair values attributable to the groups share of the net assets acquired, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions subsequent to 1 July 1998 is capitalised but prior to that date it was eliminated against reserves, and this goodwill has not been restated.
Where capitalised goodwill and intangible assets are regarded as having limited useful economic lives, their cost is amortised on a straightline basis over those lives up to 20 years.
Where goodwill and intangible assets are regarded as having indefinite useful economic lives, they are not amortised.
Assets with indefinite lives are reviewed for impairment annually and other assets are reviewed for impairment wherever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Impairment reviews, comparing the discounted estimated future operating cash ows with the net carrying value of brands or goodwill, are carried out to ensure that goodwill and intangible assets are not carried at above their recoverable amounts.
Amortisation and any impairment write downs are charged to the profit and loss account.
Tangible xed assets Land and buildings are stated at cost or, for certain assets acquired prior to 1993, at professional valuation, less depreciation.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Leaseholds are depreciated over the unexpired period of the lease.
Other tangible xed assets are depreciated on a straightline basis to estimated residual values over their expected useful lives within the following ranges: industrial and other buildings 10 to 50 years: plant and machinery 5 to 25 years: xtures and ttings 5 to 10 years: casks and containers 15 to 20 years: and computer software up to 5 years.
Reviews are carried out if there is some indication that impairment may have occurred, to ensure that xed assets are not carried at above their recoverable amounts.
Leases Where the group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset subject to a lease, the lease is treated as a finance lease.
Other leases are treated as operating leases, with payments and receipts taken to the profit and loss account on a straightline basis over the life of the lease.
Associates and joint arrangements An associate is an undertaking in which the group has a long term equity interest and over which it exercises significant inuence.
The groups interest in the net assets of associates is included in investments in the group balance sheet.
Joint arrangements, where each party has its own separate interest in particular risks and rewards, are accounted for by including the attributable share of the assets and liabilities, measured according to the terms of the arrangement.
Share options The intrinsic value of options granted, being the difference between the market value of shares on the award of an option, and the exercise price of the option, is charged to the profit and loss account over the minimum life of the option.
Shares held by the company for the purpose of fullling obligations in respect of various employee share plans around the group are deducted from equity in the consolidated balance sheet.
Any gain or loss arising on the sale of the shares held by the company is included as an adjustment to reserves.
Stocks Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes raw materials, direct labour and expenses, and an appropriate proportion of production and other overheads.
Cost is calculated on an actual usage basis for maturing stocks and on a first in, first out basis for other stocks.
Diageo Annual Report 2005 89 Accounting policies Accounting policies continued Foreign currencies The profit and loss accounts and cash ows of overseas subsidiaries and associates are translated into sterling at weighted average rates of exchange, other than substantial transactions which are translated at the rate on the date of the transaction.
The adjustment to closing rates is taken to reserves.
Balance sheets are translated at closing rates.
Exchange differences arising on the re-translation at closing rates of the opening balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries and associates are taken to reserves, as are exchange differences arising on related foreign currency borrowings and financial instruments.
Tax charges and credits arising on such items are also taken to reserves.
Other exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
The results, assets and liabilities of operations in hyper-inationary economies are determined using an appropriate relatively stable currency as the functional currency.
The exchange differences arising from this initial process are taken to the profit and loss account.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction or, if hedged forward, at the rate of exchange under the related foreign currency contract.
Turnover Turnover from the sale of goods includes excise duties and royalties receivable but excludes value added tax.
Turnover is recognised depending upon individual customer terms at the time of despatch, delivery or some other specified point when the risk of loss transfers.
Provision is made for returns where appropriate.
Turnover is stated net of price discounts, allowances for customer loyalty and certain promotional activities and similar items.
Advertising Advertising production costs are charged to the profit and loss account when the advertisement is first shown to the public.
Research and development Research and development, including developing new drinks products and package design expenditure, is written off in the period in which it is incurred.
Pensions and other post employment benets The groups principal pension funds are dened benefit plans.
In addition the group has dened contribution plans, unfunded post employment medical benefit liabilities and other unfunded post employment liabilities.
For dened benefit plans the amount charged to operating profit is the cost of accruing pension benets promised to employees over the year plus any benefit improvements granted to members by the group during the year.
Other finance income charges in the profit and loss account includes a credit equivalent to the groups expected return on the pension plans assets over the year, offset by a charge equal to the expected increase in the plans liabilities over the year.
The difference between the market value of the plans assets and the present value of the plans liabilities is disclosed as an asset or liability on the group balance sheet, net of deferred tax to the extent that it is recoverable.
Any differences between the expected return on assets and that actually achieved, and any changes in the liabilities over the year due to changes in assumptions or experience within the plans, are recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Contributions payable by the group in respect of dened contribution plans are charged to operating profit as incurred.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are those that in managements judgement need to be disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence.
Such items are included within the profit and loss account caption to which they relate, and are separately disclosed either in the notes to the consolidated financial statements or on the face of the consolidated profit and loss account.
Deferred taxation Full provision for deferred tax is made for timing differences between the recognition of gains and losses in the consolidated financial statements and their recognition in tax computations, using current tax rates.
The group does not discount these balances.
No deferred tax is provided in respect of any future remittance of earnings of foreign subsidiaries or associates where no commitment has been made to remit such earnings.
Financial instruments The group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposures to uctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates.
Instruments accounted for as hedges are structured so as to reduce the market risk associated with the underlying transaction being hedged and are designated as a hedge at the inception of the contract.
If the underlying transaction to a hedge ceases to exist, the hedge is terminated and the profit or loss is recognised immediately.
If the hedge transaction is terminated, the profit or loss is held in the balance sheet and amortised over the life of the original underlying transaction.
Receipts and payments on interest rate instruments are recognised on an accruals basis over the life of the instrument.
Foreign exchange contracts hedging net investments in overseas businesses are revalued at closing rates and exchange differences arising are taken to reserves.
Gains and losses on contracts hedging forecast transactional cash ows, and on option instruments hedging the sterling value of foreign currency denominated income, are recognised in the hedged periods.
Cash ows associated with derivative financial instruments are classied in the cash ow statement in a manner consistent with those of the transactions being hedged.
Finance costs associated with debt issuances are charged to the profit and loss account over the life of the issue.
Diageo Annual Report 2005 90 Accounting policies
