Principal group companies The companies listed below include those which principally affect the profits and assets of the group.
The operating companies listed below may carry on the business described in the countries listed in conjunction with their subsidiaries and other group companies.
A full list of subsidiaries, all of which are consolidated, will be included in the companys next annual return having made use of the exemption in Section 231 of the Companies Act 1985.
Country of Country of Percentage of incorporation operation equity owned Business description Subsidiaries Diageo Ireland Ireland Worldwide 100% Production, marketing and distribution of premium drinks Diageo Great Britain Limited England Worldwide 100% Production, marketing and distribution of premium drinks Diageo Scotland Limited Scotland Worldwide 100% Production, marketing and distribution of premium drinks Diageo Brands BV Netherlands Worldwide 100% Production, marketing and distribution of premium drinks Diageo North America, Inc United States Worldwide 100% Production, importing and marketing of premium drinks a Diageo Capital plc Scotland United Kingdom 100% Financing company for the group a Diageo Finance plc England United Kingdom 100% Financing company for the group Diageo Capital BV Netherlands Netherlands 100% Financing company for the group Diageo Finance BV Netherlands Netherlands 100% Financing company for the group Diageo Investment Corporation United States United States 100% Financing company for the US group Associates and investments b Mot Hennessy, SNC France France 34% Production and distribution of premium drinks c General Mills, Inc United States Worldwide 7% Manufacture and marketing of consumer food products a Directly owned by Diageo plc.
c The group owns 25 million shares of common stock par value $0.10 each in General Mills, Inc. All percentages, unless otherwise stated, relate to holdings of ordinary share capital and are equivalent to the percentages of voting rights held by the group.
Diageo Annual Report 2005 148 Principal group companies Reporting under International Financial Reporting Standards Introduction Diageo currently prepares its primary financial statements under UK generally accepted accounting principles UK GAAP.
In future, the group is required to prepare its consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Accounting Standards IAS and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
Diageos first IFRS results will be for the six months ending 31 December 2005 and the year ending 30 June 2006.
Those financial statements will present comparative information for the year ended 30 June 2005 prepared under IFRS.
This involves preparation of an opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 July 2004, which is the groups date of transition to IFRS reporting.
Unaudited reconciliations between UK GAAP and IFRS for the groups reported financial position at 30 June 2004 and its reported financial position and financial performance for the year ended 30 June 2005, together with the accounting policies applicable to the group from 1 July 2005, are available on the Diageo website, www.
Basis of preparation The group is complying with IFRS for the first time for the year ending 30 June 2006 and the impact of the transition to IFRS is described below in accordance with IFRS applicable at 30 June 2005.
These standards are subject to ongoing review and endorsement by the EU or possible amendment by interpretative guidance from the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and are therefore still subject to change.
IFRS 1 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards permits certain optional exemptions from full retrospective application of IFRS accounting policies and the following options have been adopted as at the date of transition: Business combinations: Business combinations prior to the date of transition have not been restated onto an IFRS basis.
Cumulative translation differences:The cumulative translation difference arising on consolidation has been deemed to be zero at the date of transition.
Share-based payments: Full retrospective application has been adopted.
The group is adopting the provisions of IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement from 1 July 2005.
Financial instruments in the year ended 30 June 2005 remain recorded in accordance with the current UK GAAP accounting policies, and the adjustment to IFRS will be reected in the balance sheet at 1 July 2005.
Nature of IFRS adjustments The main adjustments from UK GAAP to IFRS are as follows: Employee benets Share-based payments Under UK GAAP, the group expensed the intrinsic value of equity settled share options granted, being the difference between the market value of the shares at the time of the award of an option and the exercise price of the option, to the income statement over the minimum life of the option.
Under IFRS 2 Share-based payment, equity settled share-based transactions with employees are required to be measured at the fair value of the option at the date of grant which forms the basis of the charge to the income statement over the vesting period.
The fair values of the grants have been calculated based on the binomial and Monte Carlo option pricing models.
The group has adopted the transitional arrangements that allow companies to apply IFRS 2 retrospectively to all options granted but not fully vested at 30 June 2004 where the fair value has been previously disclosed.
The deferred tax credit under IFRS 2 is calculated based on the difference between the market price at the balance sheet date and the option exercise price of the shares at the date of exercise.
The deferred tax charge is therefore not comparable with the operating profit charge.
Post employment benets Diageos accounting for pensions and other post employment benets under IFRS will be substantially the same as that already applied under UK GAAP.
There are however a number of minor differences that give a slight variation in the valuations of the assets and liabilities in the schemes.
These include the use of bid prices rather than mid-market prices to value the assets in the schemes, and a different actuarial method for valuing certain risk benets death in service and ill health benets representing the liabilities of the schemes.
In addition, under UK GAAP, the costs of administering the schemes were charged as service costs and included in operating profit.
Under IFRS, these costs are included in the expected rate of return assumption and, as a consequence, are included in finance charges in the income statement.
Biological assets Under UK GAAP, Diageos vines and the grapes on the vines were measured at the historical cost of the vine less accumulated depreciation where appropriate.
Under IAS 41 Agriculture, Diageo will recognise its biological assets, being its vines and grapes on the vines, at fair value.
Any changes in the fair value of such biological assets are recognised in the income statement.
Diageo Annual Report 2005 149 Reporting under International Financial Reporting Standards Reporting under International Financial Reporting Standards continued Joint ventures Under IFRS, the legal and contractual power to control or signicantly inuence is the key consideration when determining whether an entity is a subsidiary, joint venture or associate.
Under UK GAAP, consideration is given to the control or significant inuence actually exercised in practice when making this decision.
A review of investments concluded that the groups beer interests in Malaysia and Singapore, currently subsidiaries under UK GAAP, will be classied as jointly controlled entities under IFRS.
As a consequence, these entities previously fully consolidated with a minority interest under UK GAAP will, under IFRS, be proportionately consolidated.
This adjustment does not affect the retained profit of the group.
IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures defines a jointly controlled entity as an entity where all parties enter into a contractual arrangement that species joint control, by unanimous consent, of all strategic financial and operating decisions.
IFRS allows the group to adopt either proportionate consolidation or the equity method when consolidating jointly controlled entities.
Diageo has adopted proportionate consolidation as its group policy.
This will result in some group entities, currently equity accounted under UK GAAP, being proportionately consolidated under IFRS.
For all proportionately consolidated entities, the IFRS balance sheet will include only the groups share of the assets and liabilities of those entities.
Where an entity was previously fully consolidated under UK GAAP, the minority interest portion will not exist under IFRS.
Foreign exchange The group has a number of inter-company funding arrangements.
Under UK GAAP and IAS 21 The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, exchange rate differences on monetary items are recognised in the income statement unless the monetary item forms part of a net investment in a foreign entity.
IAS 21, as currently drafted, is more prescriptive in determining which loans, including inter-company loans, may be designated as part of the groups net investment or as a net investment hedge.
This has resulted in a gain, under IFRS, for the year ended 30 June 2005 being transferred from reserves to finance income charges in the income statement.
This does not reect an economic gain or loss for the group.
The International Accounting Standards Board has indicated that certain provisions within IAS 21 are proposed to be amended.
Income taxes Under IAS 12 Income taxes, deferred tax is recognised in respect of nearly all taxable temporary differences arising between the tax written down value of assets and liabilities and the book value.
Under UK GAAP, deferred tax is recognised on timing differences.
This results in deferred tax being recognised under IFRS on certain temporary differences that would not have given rise to deferred tax under UK GAAP.
In addition to the new deferred tax assets and liabilities in respect of share-based payments, post employment benets and agriculture, the groups balance sheet includes an additional deferred tax asset representing the recognition of tax benets of group reorganisations made in prior years.
This deferred tax asset will be amortised through the income statement over the period that tax benets are received.
Over a number of years, the group has made a number of acquisitions and consequently recognised brand and other intangibles on its balance sheet.
Some of these acquisitions were structured as an acquisition of a legal entity and therefore the brand intangible has no equivalent tax basis.
The group has therefore recognised an incremental deferred tax liability with an equivalent adjustment to goodwill.
This includes, as a consequence of the Ursus and Chalone acquisitions during the year ended 30 June 2005, an additional deferred tax liability, only required under IFRS, which has also been included in goodwill.
The deferred tax liabilities established on brands will only crystallise on any subsequent disposal or impairment of the brands in respect of which they have been established.
Other deferred tax adjustments, on compliance with IFRS, include: a reduction of the deferred tax asset in respect of unrealised profits on the intra-group transfer of inventories: an additional deferred tax liability in respect of rolled over capital gains on the disposal of property: additional deferred tax liabilities in respect of fair value adjustments on the Seagram acquisition: and the reversal of deferred tax liabilities not required under IFRS.
Under IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements, the tax charge on the face of the income statement comprises the tax charge of the company, its subsidiaries and the share of any joint ventures that are proportionately consolidated.
The groups share of its associated undertakings tax charges are included as part of the share of associates profits rather than being part of the tax charge, as under UK GAAP.
Other adjustments Intangible assets Prior to the transition date, goodwill arising from the acquisition of a business was amortised through the income statement over a maximum of 20 years.
IFRS requires that an impairment review of goodwill is carried out at the date of transition irrespective of whether an indicator exists that goodwill may be impaired.
As none of the goodwill was impaired at either 1 July 2004, or 30 June 2005, the UK GAAP amortisation for the year ended 30 June 2005 has not been charged to the income statement under IFRS.
Under UK GAAP, goodwill acquired prior to 1 July 1998 was eliminated directly against reserves.
The gain or loss on the disposal of a previously acquired business reects the attributable amount of purchased goodwill in respect of that business.
As Diageo has opted not to restate business combinations prior to the date of transition, the goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP has been frozen and remains in reserves.
During the year ended 30 June 2005, the group disposed of 53.9 million shares in General Mills for which attributable goodwill, previously written off to reserves, was recycled to the income statement and charged to the loss on disposal under UK GAAP.
This adjustment is not required under IFRS, with the result that a gain on the disposal of the General Mills shares is reported in the IFRS income statement, instead of the loss reported under UK GAAP.
Diageo Annual Report 2005 150 Reporting under International Financial Reporting Standards Dividends Under UK GAAP, the proposed dividends on ordinary shares, as recommended by the directors, were deducted from shareholders equity and shown as a liability in the balance sheet at the end of the period to which they related.
Under IAS 10 Events after the balance sheet date, proposed dividends are not considered to be a liability until they are approved by the Diageo board for the interim dividend and by the shareholders at the annual general meeting for the final dividend.
Under IFRS, the amount of the final dividend has been removed from current liabilities.
Leases The group has applied the requirements of IAS 17 Leases to all of its leases and has reclassied certain leases from operating to finance leases.
Revaluation reserve The group last revalued its land and buildings in 1992 Guinness and 1988 GrandMet.
At 30 June 2005 there was a difference between the revalued net book value of property, plant and equipment and the historical net book value.
Under IFRS, it was determined not to recognise any revaluations and, as a consequence, the revaluation reserve has been eliminated against property, plant and equipment.
Mot Hennessy The operations of Mot Hennessy are conducted through a partnership and a limited company in which Diageo has 34% interests.
Mot Hennessy has undertaken an exercise to restate its financial statements for the impacts of IFRS.
Diageo has adjusted some of these restatements to ensure consistency with its own IFRS group accounting policies.
Both the groups share of net assets of Mot Hennessy and the groups share of profit from associates for the year ended 30 June 2005 increased, primarily due to the reversal of goodwill amortisation IFRS 3 Business combinations, the fair value of harvested produce IAS 41 Agriculture and pension charges IAS 19 Employee benets.
Exchanges Under UK GAAP, the group has recognised revenue on the exchange of surplus maturing whisky inventories with other UK distillers.
IFRS does not permit the recognition of revenue on the exchange of similar assets, therefore this revenue, together with an equal and opposite cost of sales amount, will no longer be recognised.
This adjustment does not impact on the operating profit of the group.
Reclassications A number of items have been reclassied in the income statement and balance sheet to comply with IFRS presentation.
These include: Format of the income statement UK GAAP and IFRS permit costs in the income statement to be classied either by function expenses allocated to cost of sales, marketing or administrative expenses or by nature expenses analysed between purchases of materials, depreciation, staff costs and advertising costs.
Under UK GAAP, Diageo has reported costs in the income statement and accompanying notes by nature but, under IFRS, will report costs on the face of the income statement by function.
Deferred tax As a consequence of the deferred tax IFRS adjustments, certain net deferred tax asset and liability positions under UK GAAP have switched under IFRS.
Post employment liabilities Deferred tax balances in respect of post employment assets and liabilities are no longer netted off against those post employment balances, but are classied together with other deferred tax balances.
In addition, post employment assets must be shown separately from post employment liabilities and not netted off.
Associates Under UK GAAP, the groups share of associated undertakings operating profit, exceptional items, interest and tax have been disclosed separately in the consolidated income statement.
IFRS requires these items to be disclosed as a single line in the income statement.
Capitalised software Computer software which is not an integral part of a related item of hardware is required under IFRS to be reclassied from property, plant and equipment to intangible assets.
Cash and cash equivalents IFRS replaces the consolidated balance sheet term cash at bank and liquid resources with cash and cash equivalents.
Cash equivalents are dened as short term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash which are subject to insignicant changes in value.
This has resulted in a transfer from cash at bank and liquid resources to trade and other receivables and from cash at bank and other receivables to other investments.
Provisions IFRS requires all liabilities to be analysed between amounts due within one year and after one year.
This has resulted in a transfer from provisions for liabilities and charges to current liabilities.
Financial instruments Diageo will not present comparative information that complies with IAS 39 and IAS 32 Financial instruments: disclosure and presentation for the year ended 30 June 2005.
Financial instruments for the year ended 30 June 2005 and as at 30 June 2005 will be recognised and presented in accordance with current UK GAAP accounting policies.
The IFRS financial statements will comply with the provisions of IAS 39 from 1 July 2005 and these adjustments will be reected in the opening balance sheet at 1 July 2005.
The impacts on compliance with IAS 39 and IAS 32 at 1 July 2005 will increase investments, other assets and deferred tax balances.
In addition, the adjustment will increase financial liabilities and borrowings.
The overall impact of compliance will increase net assets at 1 July 2005.
Diageo Annual Report 2005 151 Reporting under International Financial Reporting Standards
