ANNUAL REPOR ANNUAL REPORT T 2005 2005 NO NOT TE ES T S TO O THE FINANC FINANC IAL SIT AL S ATEM TAETN ET M SENTS 1.
Basis of Preparation Installation revenue The Dimension Data group the Group comprises Dimension Installation revenue comprises both time and materials used on site Data Holdings plc the Company and its subsidiaries.
when performing work for customers on initial installations, adds, moves, changes, redeployment and decommissioning.
Additionally The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention.
installation revenue may include recoveries for disbursements.
The accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Maintenance revenue and licence fees Maintenance revenue and licence fees are recognised over the The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year.
Call centre revenue Turnover on contracts is recognised according to the stage of Prior year comparatives completion of the contract by reference to the value of work The comparative balance sheet and cash flow statement at 30 performed.
The amount by which turnover differs from payments September 2004 have been reclassified to reflect the short term on account is shown under debtors as accrued revenue, or under portion of a long term creditor in creditors.
creditors as deferred revenue, as appropriate.
Accounting Policies Research and development Basis of consolidation Research and development costs are recognised as an expense in The consolidated financial statements include the financial the period in which they are incurred.
statements of the Company and all its subsidiaries and its share of associated companies.
The results of subsidiaries are included Goodwill from the effective dates of acquisition until the effective dates of Where an investment in a subsidiary, joint venture or associated disposal and are accounted for under the acquisition method.
company is made, any difference between the purchase price Accounting policies of subsidiaries that differ from the Group and the fair value of the attributable net assets is recognised as accounting policies are adjusted on consolidation.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 October 1998 was set off against reserves in the year of acquisition.
Goodwill All significant intergroup transactions and balances have been arising on acquisitions after 1 October 1998 is recognised within eliminated on consolidation.
intangible fixed assets in the year of acquisition, and amortised.
Amortisation is calculated on a straight line basis so as to write In accordance with Section 230 3 of the Companies Act 1985 off the goodwill over its economic life, depending on the nature a separate profit and loss account for the Company is not of the acquisition, for a period generally not exceeding five years.
The unamortised balance is reviewed on a regular basis, and, if an impairment in value has occurred, it is written off in the period in Turnover which the impairment has been identified.
Turnover comprises the aggregate amounts receivable for the sale of equipment and the amounts receivable from customers for the provision of services for installation, maintenance and call centre operations.
Turnover is recognised on transfer of risk and rewards to the customer and when the Groups obligations have been met.
