ANNUAL REPOR ANNUAL REPORT T 2005 2005 NO NOT TE ES T S TO O THE FINANC FINANC IAL SIT AL S ATEM TAETN ET M SENTS 1.
Basis of Preparation Installation revenue The Dimension Data group the Group comprises Dimension Installation revenue comprises both time and materials used on site Data Holdings plc the Company and its subsidiaries.
when performing work for customers on initial installations, adds, moves, changes, redeployment and decommissioning.
Additionally The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention.
installation revenue may include recoveries for disbursements.
The accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Maintenance revenue and licence fees Maintenance revenue and licence fees are recognised over the The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year.
Call centre revenue Turnover on contracts is recognised according to the stage of Prior year comparatives completion of the contract by reference to the value of work The comparative balance sheet and cash flow statement at 30 performed.
The amount by which turnover differs from payments September 2004 have been reclassified to reflect the short term on account is shown under debtors as accrued revenue, or under portion of a long term creditor in creditors.
creditors as deferred revenue, as appropriate.
Accounting Policies Research and development Basis of consolidation Research and development costs are recognised as an expense in The consolidated financial statements include the financial the period in which they are incurred.
statements of the Company and all its subsidiaries and its share of associated companies.
The results of subsidiaries are included Goodwill from the effective dates of acquisition until the effective dates of Where an investment in a subsidiary, joint venture or associated disposal and are accounted for under the acquisition method.
company is made, any difference between the purchase price Accounting policies of subsidiaries that differ from the Group and the fair value of the attributable net assets is recognised as accounting policies are adjusted on consolidation.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 October 1998 was set off against reserves in the year of acquisition.
Goodwill All significant intergroup transactions and balances have been arising on acquisitions after 1 October 1998 is recognised within eliminated on consolidation.
intangible fixed assets in the year of acquisition, and amortised.
Amortisation is calculated on a straight line basis so as to write In accordance with Section 230 3 of the Companies Act 1985 off the goodwill over its economic life, depending on the nature a separate profit and loss account for the Company is not of the acquisition, for a period generally not exceeding five years.
The unamortised balance is reviewed on a regular basis, and, if an impairment in value has occurred, it is written off in the period in Turnover which the impairment has been identified.
Turnover comprises the aggregate amounts receivable for the sale of equipment and the amounts receivable from customers for the provision of services for installation, maintenance and call centre operations.
Turnover is recognised on transfer of risk and rewards to the customer and when the Groups obligations have been met.
061 ANNUAL REPOR ANNUAL REPORT T 2005 2005 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tangible fixed assets surpluses indicated by the impairment review.
In the case of listed Tangible fixed assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated investments, the quoted share price at year end is used to value depreciation and any provision for impairment.
All subsidiaries of Protocol are consolidated in accordance with Group accounting policies.
Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis at rates considered appropriate to reduce their book values to estimated residual Investments in subsidiaries are carried in the parent Company values over the useful lives of the assets.
balance sheet at cost less provisions for impairment.
The following rates are generally applied: Accounting for foreign investments Capitalised property finance lease Over 50 years The balance sheets of consolidated foreign subsidiaries, together Leasehold land, buildings and improvements Over the lease term with investments in overseas associated companies, are translated Computer and workshop equipment 20 - 33% per annum into US dollars at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance Motor vehicles 25% per annum sheet date.
The results of overseas subsidiaries and associated Office furniture and equipment 10% per annum.
companies are translated at the weighted average rates of exchange for the year.
The exchange differences arising on the retranslation Associated companies of the opening net investment, and profit for the financial year at Associated companies are those companies over which the the closing rate, are taken to reserves.
Group exercises significant influence and in which it holds a long term equity interest.
Investments in associated companies are Taxation accounted for using the equity method, from the date they became Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is investees, whereby the Groups share of the associated companies provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the retained income for the year is included in the consolidated profit tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted and loss account.
Attributable earnings or losses, less dividends by the balance sheet date.
received, are included with the book value of the investment in the consolidated balance sheet.
Provision is made where there has Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences that result in been an impairment in the carrying value of the investment.
an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they Investments crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Timing differences Investments, other than investments in associated companies and arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in joint ventures, are reflected at the lower of cost and fair value in the taxation computations in periods different from those in which they balance sheet.
Fair value for unquoted investments represents the are included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are Directors valuation after taking into account any impairment.
Fair recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not value of quoted investments represents market value.
Investments they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not held by Protocol are stated at valuation in terms of the standards discounted.
endorsed by the British Venture Capital Association.
Valuations, for unquoted investments, are based on arms length transactions that took place and valuation surpluses or losses are included in operating income.
Where no such transaction took place, the investment is assessed for impairment and any valuation losses written off to operating income.
No account is taken of valuation 062 ANNUAL REPOR ANNUAL REPORT T 2005 2005 NO NOT TE ES T S TO O THE FINANC FINANC IAL SIT AL S ATEM TAETN ET M SENTS Stock Finance costs Stock is valued at the lower of the weighted average cost and net Finance costs of debt are recognised in the profit and loss account realisable value.
Cost comprises the cost of materials, direct labour over the term of such instruments at a constant rate on the carrying and directly attributable overheads.
Net realisable value is based amount.
on estimated normal selling price less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Redundant and slow-moving Operating leases stocks are identified and written down to the lower of cost or net Rentals are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line realisable value.
basis over the minimum lease term.
Foreign currency transactions Finance leases Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded Assets held under finance leases and other similar contracts, which in the local currencies at actual exchange rates at the date of confer rights and obligations similar to those attached to owned the transaction or, where appropriate, at the rate of exchange of assets, are capitalised as tangible fixed assets and are depreciated a related forward exchange contract.
As a result of this, gains over the shorter of the lease terms and their useful lives.
The capital and losses arising on forward foreign currency contracts are elements of future lease obligations are recorded as liabilities, while recognised in the profit and loss account when the hedged the interest elements are charged to the profit and loss account transaction is recognised in the Groups accounts.
Monetary over the period of the leases to produce a constant rate of charge assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the year on the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
end are retranslated at the rates of exchange prevailing at the year end or, where appropriate, at the rate of exchange of a related Pensions forward exchange contract.
Any gain or loss arising from a change The Group maintains various defined contribution pension schemes in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is for the benefit of employees.
The amount charged to the pension included as an exchange gain or loss in the profit and loss account, costs in the profit and loss account comprise contributions payable unless hedged.
to the Groups various defined contribution schemes.
The results of overseas operations are translated at the average Debt rates of exchange during the period and their balance sheets at the Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds after rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising deduction of issue costs.
The carrying amount is increased by the on translation of the opening net assets and on foreign currency finance cost in respect of the accounting period and reduced by borrowings, to the extent that they hedge the Groups investment payments made in the period.
Convertible debt is reported as a in such operations, are recorded directly in reserves and are liability until conversion occurs.
No gain or loss is recognised on reported in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
This balance represents cumulative translation differences arising from the translation of the net assets of foreign subsidiaries into US dollars at differing exchange rates.
All other exchange differences are included in the profit and loss account.
063 ANNUAL REPOR ANNUAL REPORT T 2005 2005 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate movements.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
For a forward foreign exchange contract to be treated as a hedge, the instrument must be related to actual foreign currency assets or liabilities or to a probable commitment.
It must involve the same currency or similar currencies as the hedged item and must also reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements on the Groups operations.
Gains and losses arising on these contracts are deferred and recognised in the profit and loss account, or as adjustments to the carrying amount of fixed assets, only when the hedged transaction has itself been reflected in the Groups financial statements.
For an interest rate swap to be treated as a hedge the instrument must be related to actual assets or liabilities or a probable commitment and must change the nature of the interest rate by converting a fixed rate to a variable rate or vice versa.
Interest differentials under these swaps are recognised by adjusting net interest payable over the periods of the contracts.
If an instrument ceases to be accounted for as a hedge, for example because the underlying hedged position is eliminated, the instrument is marked to market and any resulting profit or loss recognised at that time.
Reporting currency As permitted by UK Company law, the Group reports in US dollars, the currency in which a significant amount of its business is conducted.
