IFRS INFORMATION FINANCIAL INFORMATION UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS Introduction Dixons Group plc currently prepares its financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practices UK GAAP.
Following a European Union Regulation issued in 2002, Dixons Group plc will report its results in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Commission EC from 1 May 2005.
The Groups first Annual Report and Accounts under IFRS will be for the 52 week period ending 29 April 2006.
Comparative gures for the 52 week period ended 30 April 2005, as presented in these financial statements, will be restated.
The transition date to IFRS for Dixons Group plc is 2 May 2004 the Transition Date, being the start of the period of comparative information.
Basis of preparation The key differences between UK GAAP and IFRS affecting the Groups accounting policies are set out below and these assume that all existing IFRS, Standing Interpretations Committee SIC interpretations and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB effective for the 52 weeks ending 29 April 2006, will be fully endorsed by the EC.
The failure of the EC to endorse all of these standards in time for the 2005 06 financial reporting period could result in the need to change the basis of accounting or presentation of certain financial information from that reported herein.
The IASB continues to amend certain of these standards and interpretations as well as to issue new standards and interpretations.
Such new guidance may be applicable to the financial year commencing 1 May 2005 or may be applicable to later periods but may be adopted early.
It is important to note that the IFRS position as stated is the Groups current view based on the financial reporting standards currently in issue and changes may arise as new accounting pronouncements are developed and issued.
As a result of this, the Groups first financial statements may be prepared on a different basis to that presented here.
The Groups accounting policy for financial instruments assumes that the final version of IAS 39 Financial Instruments will be endorsed by the EC, and adopted from 1 May 2005.
While this is not a comprehensive summary of all differences between UK GAAP and IFRS, other differences would have no effect or no significant effect on the consolidated net profit or shareholders funds of the Group.
A reconciliation of consolidated profit for the period and shareholders funds as at 30 April 2005, together with a reconciliation of shareholders funds as at the Transition Date are set out below.
IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 1 permits those companies adopting IFRS for the first time to take some exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS and also certain elections in the transition period.
The Group has taken the following exemptions and elections: share-based payments: IFRS 2 Share-based Payment has been applied to all equity settled transactions, such as share options, granted and unvested as at the Transition Date.
IFRS 2 is only required to be applied to share-based payments granted after 7 November 2002.
However, the Group considers that retrospective application before this date provides a better indication of how past and future results are affected in relation to the year on year level of grants: employee benets: Under IAS 19 Employee Benets all cumulative pension actuarial gains and losses have been recognised in equity at the Transition Date.
Commencing on the Transition Date, the Group will recognise actuarial gains and losses in full in the period in which they occur in the statement of recognised income and expense in accordance with the amendment to IAS 19, issued in December 2004: 90 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 FINANCIAL INFORMATION UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS CONTINUED IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards continued business combinations: The Group has elected to apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations prospectively from the Transition Date.
The effect of this is that goodwill arising from business combinations prior to the Transition Date remains at the net book value as stated under UK GAAP as at the Transition Date: and financial instruments: The Group has elected to defer the implementation of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39: Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
They will be adopted from 1 May 2005.
Commencing on this date, it is the intention to apply hedge accounting where the requirements of IAS 39 are met.
Accordingly, the comparative period to the 2005 06 Annual Report and Accounts i. e. 52 week period ended 30 April 2005 will reect accounting under the existing UK GAAP basis.
SUMMARY OF DIFFERENCES BETWEEN UK GAAP AND INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS Differences between UK GAAP and IFRS The following summarises the areas of reconciliation relevant to the Group between UK GAAP and IFRS.
a Share-based payments Under UK GAAP, no cost is incurred for share options or Save As You Earn SAYE schemes.
In accordance with IFRS 2, the Group will recognise a charge to the profit and loss account which represents the fair value of outstanding share-based payments granted to employees.
Share-based payments comprise share options, SAYE schemes, the Deferred Equity Participation Plan DEPP and the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
The fair value is determined by using option pricing models and the Group has predominantly adopted the binomial model in such valuations.
The charge is recognised in the profit and loss account over the vesting period, adjusted, where appropriate, reecting expected levels of vesting.
The basis of calculation for deferred taxation is the difference between the market price at the balance sheet date and the exercise price of the share-based payment reecting expected levels of vesting.
Accordingly, the tax effect does not correlate to the charge.
b Employment benets Under UK GAAP, a prepayment or accrual is shown in the balance sheet representing timing differences between the surplus of pension fund assets over projected accrued benefit obligations and the cash payments made to the pension scheme.
Under IAS 19 Employee Benets, the regular service cost of providing retirement benets to employees during the period, together with the cost of any benets relating to past service is charged to operating profit in the period.
A credit representing the expected return on assets of the retirement benefit schemes during the period is included within other finance income.
This is based on the market value of the assets of the schemes at the start of the financial period.
A charge within other finance charges representing the expected increase in the liabilities of the retirement benefit schemes during the period is included in net interest.
The difference between the market value of the assets and the present value of the accrued pension liabilities is recognised as an asset or liability in the balance sheet together with the related deferred tax effect.
Differences between the actual and expected returns on assets during the period are recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense, together with differences arising from changes in assumptions.
This treatment is consistent with that already disclosed under FRS 17 under UK GAAP as set out in note 27 to the financial statements.
Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 91 IFRS INFORMATION CONTINUED SUMMARY OF DIFFERENCES BETWEEN UK GAAP AND INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS CONTINUED Differences between UK GAAP and IFRS continued c Leases Under UK GAAP, determination of property finance leases is made by reference to the lease as a whole.
Under IAS 17 Leases, the determination must be made by reference to the land and buildings elements of the leases separately.
As a result of this a small number of leases previously recognised as operating leases have been reclassied as finance leases.
The key reasons for the change are concerned with where the Group has built and developed such properties and then subsequently sold and leased back.
The circumstances and terms of the sale and lease back have determined the accounting as a finance lease.
The main impact on the balance sheet is the inclusion of the above mentioned properties within xed assets together with the related finance lease creditor.
The creditor, because of its inclusion within borrowings, has the effect of reducing net funds.
Cash ows are, however, unaffected.
The impact on net assets is relatively small.
The key impact on the profit and loss account is that for these specic leases, the rentals under operating leases charged to operating profit under UK GAAP is replaced with a depreciation charge on the xed asset and a finance charge is included within interest.
The total amounts charged to the profit and loss account over the life of the finance lease remain the same under both UK GAAP and IFRS, however, a higher charge is incurred in the early years of a lease owing to the impact of higher interest charges.
d Lease incentives Under UK GAAP, the Groups policy on recognition of lease incentives, such as rent free periods and reverse lease premiums, is to spread the incentive over the period to the first market rent review.
Under IFRS, SIC 15 Operating Leases Incentives the requirement is for such incentives to be spread over the life of the lease.
As a result, the Groups IFRS balance sheet at the Transition Date includes additional deferred income.
Operating profit for 2004 05 will be reduced as such income is spread further forwards.
e Dividends Under UK GAAP dividends are provided for in the period in respect of which they are declared or proposed.
IAS 10 Events After the Balance Sheet Date requires that dividends are given effect only in the period in which they are declared.
The effect of this change for the Group is that the final dividend in relation to the financial years 2003 04 and 2004 05 which were accrued at the balance sheet dates are reversed and, instead, accounted for in 2004 05 and 2005 06 respectively.
f Business combinations and intangible assets Under UK GAAP, goodwill on acquisitions made by the Group since 2 May 1999 has been capitalised and amortised over its estimated life where such a life has been determined to be nite.
Prior to 2 May 1999, goodwill arising on acquisitions was eliminated against reserves in the consolidated balance sheet in the year in which the acquisition was made.
IFRS 3 prohibits the amortisation of goodwill.
This standard requires goodwill to be carried at cost with impairment reviews carried out annually and at other times if there are indications that the carrying amount may not be supportable.
The Group has adopted the transitional provisions set out in IFRS 1, to apply IFRS 3 prospectively from the Transition Date.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions made prior to this is frozen as at the Transition Date and any goodwill amortisation occurring in the financial year 2004 05 is therefore reversed for IFRS reporting purposes.
Only a small proportion of the Groups goodwill was determined to have a nite life under UK GAAP and, accordingly, the effect of ceasing to amortise is relatively small.
92 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 SUMMARY OF DIFFERENCES BETWEEN UK GAAP AND INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS CONTINUED Differences between UK GAAP and IFRS continued IAS 38 Intangible Assets requires other intangible assets to be separately identied and amortised over their useful economic lives.
These lives will typically not be indefinite and as a result, upon acquisition of a company, intangible assets such as brands and customer lists are now separately valued and then amortised over their useful economic lives.
Additionally, UK GAAP requires that on subsequent disposal or closure of a previously acquired subsidiary, any goodwill previously taken directly to shareholders funds is then charged to the profit and loss account as part of profit or loss on disposal or closure.
Under IFRS the appropriate balance to be written off on the disposal of the business is the remaining unamortised balance for goodwill.
This change has no effect on the Groups opening balance sheet.
g Taxation Under UK GAAP, deferred tax is provided for in full on all timing differences which have not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that they are regarded as more likely than not to be recoverable.
Although some differences exist between IFRS and UK GAAP, IAS 12 Income Taxes is similar to UK GAAP and has no effect on the Groups UK GAAP gures.
IAS 12 has, however, been applied to the IFRS adjustments discussed above.
h Presentation of financial statements The format of the primary financial statements will be presented in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
Although similar, such a presentation and related disclosures differ from the UK GAAP equivalent.
Under IAS 1, there is no denition of exceptional items.
However, the standard provides examples of circumstances where, when such items of income and expense are material, the nature and amount should be disclosed separately.
Included in these examples are many one off items which the Group has previously described as exceptional.
Accordingly, the Group will continue to identify such items separately.
i Reclassication changes The following changes reect presentational changes to the balance sheet at the Transition Date and have no effect on either net assets or profits going forwards: under UK GAAP, capitalised computer software is included within tangible xed assets on the balance sheet.
Under IFRS, only computer software that is integral to a related item of hardware is included as property, plant and equipment.
All other computer software is included as an intangible asset.
As a result, certain software previously shown as xed assets has been reclassied as intangible assets: under UK GAAP, specic denitions exist for cash at bank and in hand and short-term investments.
Under IFRS, a new category described as cash and cash equivalents replaces the UK GAAP equivalent of cash at bank and in hand.
The denition of cash and cash equivalents results in a reclassication of certain amounts from short-term investments into cash and cash equivalents: under UK GAAP, provisions for liabilities and charges are not required to be formally split between current and non-current.
IFRS requires this distinction to be made: and under UK GAAP, deferred tax assets are split between amounts falling due within one year and amounts falling due after more than one year.
IFRS requires all deferred tax asset balances to be shown as non-current.
Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 93 IFRS INFORMATION CONTINUED SUMMARY OF EFFECTS ON PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD AND SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS OF DIFFERENCES BETWEEN UK GAAP AND IFRS a Effects of differences between UK GAAP and IFRS on profit for the period 52 weeks ended 30 April 2005 million profit for the period in accordance with UK GAAP 243.1 IFRS adjustments Share-based payments IFRS 2 8.7 Employee benets IAS 19 0.3 Leases IAS 17 1.5 Lease incentives SIC 15 1.0 IFRS adjustments to underlying operating profit 7.9 Amortisation of intangibles acquired IAS 38 1.2 Goodwill amortisation reversal IFRS 3 7.2 IFRS adjustments to total operating profit 1.9 Employee benets IAS 19 interest benefit 2.1 Leases IAS 17 interest charge 3.3 IFRS adjustments to interest 1.2 Share-based payments IFRS 2 tax effect 0.7 Employee benets IAS 19 tax effect 0.7 Leases IAS 17 tax effect 0.5 Lease incentives SIC 15 tax effect 0.3 Amortisation of intangibles acquired IAS 38 tax effect 0.4 IFRS adjustments to taxation 1.2 profit for the period in accordance with IFRS 241.2 b Effects of differences between UK GAAP and IFRS on shareholders funds Transition balance sheet 30 April 2005 2 May 2004 million million Shareholders funds for the period in accordance with UK GAAP 1,475.2 1,467.7 IFRS adjustments Share-based payments IFRS 2 Goodwill amortisation reversal IFRS 3 7.2 Employee benets IAS 19 186.2 131.0 Leases IAS 17 3.6 1.8 Lease incentives SIC 15 20.9 19.9 Intangibles acquired IAS 38 4.6 Dividends IAS 10 115.2 110.3 IFRS adjustments before taxation 83.7 42.4 Deferred tax asset on notional share option charge IFRS 2 3.0 1.9 Deferred tax asset on pension liability IAS 19 56.0 37.7 Deferred tax asset on leases capitalised IAS 17 1.1 0.5 Deferred tax asset on operating lease incentives SIC 15 6.3 6.0 Deferred tax liability on intangibles acquired IAS 38 5.4 IFRS adjustments after taxation 22.7 3.7 Shareholders funds in accordance with IFRS 1,452.5 1,471.4 94 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05
