SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Registered ofce Maylands Avenue, Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire HP2 7TG.
co. uk Joint brokers Cazenove, Citigroup Registrars and transfer ofce Capita IRG plc, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
com Shareholder enquiries and share dealing services The Annual Report and Accounts and other information about the Group are available on the corporate website shown above.
Shareholders can access shareholding details over the internet.
The web address for our Registrars site is shown above.
As well as checking name, address and shareholding details in the Shareholder Help section, you can download change of address, dividend mandate and stock transfer forms.
This is a secure site and the system will validate enquiries by requesting your Investor Code.
This is a numerical account number shown on share certicates and dividend tax counterfoils.
Online and telephone share dealing services are available through our Registrars providing shareholders with easy access and simple to use services.
There is no need to pre-register and the facilities allow you to trade in real time and at a known price which will be given to you at the time you give your instruction.
In order to deal via these facilities, you will need your Investor Code see above as well as stating your surname, full postcode and date of birth.
Details of the online dealing service are available on www.
com and the telephone dealing service is on 0870 458 4577.
Cazenove operates a postal share dealing service for private investors who wish to buy or sell the Companys shares.
Details are available from Cazenove.
Tel: 020 7155 5155. Dividend mandate Shareholders who wish dividends to be paid directly into a bank or building society account should complete a dividend mandate form which can be obtained by contacting the Registrars or downloading it from their website see above.
To receive the final dividend in this way, mandate forms should be received by the Registrars by 26 August 2005.
CREST The Companys shares are traded on CREST.
CREST is a voluntary system which enables shareholders to hold and transfer their shareholdings electronically rather than by paper.
Shareholders holding shares in this way can complete the proxy voting form through the CREST system.
Shareholders can also receive dividends through the CREST system.
Capital gains tax For the purpose of computing capital gains tax, the market value of an ordinary share in the Company on 31 March 1982 was 1.35 pence adjusted for rights and capitalisation issues and the corporate restructuring effected on 7 March 2000.
Unsolicited mail The Company is obliged to make its share register available to third parties on payment of a prescribed fee.
This may result in shareholders receiving unsolicited mail.
If you wish to limit the receipt of unsolicited mail you should write to: The Mailing Preference Service, FREEPOST 22, London W1E 7ER.
Or register on their website at www.
html ShareGift The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them.
Details of the scheme are available on the ShareGift internet site, www.
Financial calendar Final dividend record date 26 August 2005 Annual general meeting 7 September 2005 Payment of final dividend 30 September 2005 2005 06 interim results announcement January 2006 Payment of 2005 06 interim dividend March 2006 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 95 Alternative format If you would like the Report and Accounts or any other shareholder documentation in an alternative format, please send a request to disability@dixons.
96 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 Designed and produced by www.
com Photography by Tim Hazael and Edward Webb Printed by St. Ives Westerham Press, environmentally accredited to ISO14001 The papers used in this report are manufactured using Elemental Chlorine Free ECF pulp sourced from sustainable managed forests.
The pulp and paper mills hold the ISO14001 Environmental Accreditation Dixons Group plc Genesis Maylands Avenue Communications Hemel Hempstead Herts HP2 7TG Telephone 0870 850 3333 www.
