NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with UK law and applicable accounting standards.
The principal accounting policies are set out below: 1.1 Accounting convention and basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention.
They incorporate the financial statements of the Company and all of its subsidiaries and associated undertakings.
The results of subsidiaries acquired are included from the date on which control passes.
The net assets of subsidiaries acquired are recorded at their fair values, reecting their condition at that date.
The results of subsidiaries disposed of are included up to the effective date of disposal.
Associated undertakings are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
1.2 Turnover Turnover comprises sales of goods and services excluding sales taxes.
Revenue for goods is recognised at the point of sale or, where later, upon delivery to the customer.
Revenue earned from customer support agreements is recognised as turnover over the term of the contracts when the Group obtains the right to consideration by performance of its contractual obligations.
1.3 Operating leases Rentals payable under property leases are charged to the profit and loss account in equal instalments up to each market rent review date throughout the lease term.
Rentals payable under leases for plant and machinery are charged to the profit and loss account in equal instalments over the total lease term.
1.4 Goodwill On acquisition of a subsidiary or associated undertaking, the fair value of the consideration is allocated between the identiable net tangible and intangible assets liabilities on a fair value basis, with any excess consideration representing goodwill.
Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries is included within intangible xed assets.
Goodwill relating to associated undertakings is included within the carrying value of the associated undertaking.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised as an asset on the balance sheet.
Where goodwill is regarded as having a limited useful economic life, it is amortised on a systematic basis over its estimated life up to a maximum of 20 years.
Impairment reviews of goodwill are carried out at the end of the first full financial year of ownership and at other times if there are indications that the carrying amount may not be supportable.
Where goodwill is regarded as having an indefinite life it is not amortised.
As permitted by FRS 10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, this represents a departure, for the purposes of giving a true and fair view, from the requirements of paragraph 21, Schedule 4 to the Companies Act 1985, which requires goodwill to be amortised.
The estimated useful economic life is regarded as indefinite where goodwill is capable of continued measurement and the durability of the acquired business can be demonstrated.
Where goodwill is not amortised, an annual impairment review is performed and any impairment is charged to the profit and loss account.
In estimating the useful economic life of goodwill, account is taken of the nature of the business acquired, the stability of the industry in which it operates, the extent of continuing barriers to market entry and the expected future impact of competition.
On a change from an investment in associated undertaking to a subsidiary, goodwill is calculated in accordance with FRS 2 Accounting for Subsidiary Undertakings.
This represents a departure, for the purposes of showing a true and fair view, from the requirements of paragraph 9, Schedule 4A to the Companies Act 1985.
Under the Companies Act 1985, goodwill on acquisition of a subsidiary is determined as a one stage calculation by considering the difference between the fair value of all identiable assets and liabilities and the aggregate consideration payable by the date control passes and the entity is consolidated into the Groups balance sheet.
Under FRS 2, separate calculations of goodwill are made at each stage of acquisition.
As permitted by FRS 10, goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 2 May 1999 remains eliminated against reserves.
This goodwill will be charged in the profit and loss account as appropriate on the subsequent disposal of the business to which it relates.
60 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 1.5 Tangible xed assets Tangible xed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and, where appropriate, provision for impairment or estimated loss on disposal.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of the assets by equal instalments over their estimated useful lives.
The rates used are: Short leasehold property over the term of the lease 2 1 Freehold and long leasehold buildings between 1 3% and 2 2% per annum 1 Fixtures, ttings and equipment between 10% and 33 % per annum 3 No depreciation is provided on freehold and long leasehold land or on assets in the course of construction.
1.6 Investments Investments held as xed assets are stated at cost, less any provision for impairment in value.
In the consolidated financial statements, shares in associated undertakings are accounted for using the net equity method.
The consolidated profit and loss account includes the Groups share of the operating profits, net interest and attributable taxation of the associated undertaking.
In the consolidated balance sheet, the investment in associated undertakings is shown as the Groups share of the net assets of the associated undertakings.
Short-term investments are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value with the exception of assets held to maturity, which are stated at cost net of amortised premium or discount.
1.7 Stocks Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of properties held for development includes the net development outgoings attributable to such properties and interest incurred during development on those projects where it is expected, on commencement, that the period will exceed one year.
1.8 Deferred taxation Deferred tax is provided for in full on all timing differences which have not reversed at the balance sheet date.
No provision is made for tax which would become payable on the distribution of retained profits of overseas subsidiaries or associated undertakings, unless the distribution of such earnings has been accrued in the balance sheet.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that they are regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
1.9 Post-retirement benets The Group has adopted the transitional arrangements of FRS 17 Retirement Benets, which permit the costs, accruals and prepayments to be reported under the requirements of SSAP 24 Accounting for Pension Costs.
The additional disclosures required by FRS 17 are detailed in note 27.
The expected cost of providing pensions for funded dened benefit pension schemes is calculated periodically by qualied actuaries and is charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the pension cost over the normal expected service lives of members in such a way that the pension cost is a substantially level percentage of current and expected future pensionable payroll.
Company contributions to dened contribution pension schemes and contributions made to state pension schemes for certain overseas employees are charged to the profit and loss account on an accruals basis as contributions become payable.
1.10 Translation of foreign currencies The results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling at the average rates of exchange during the period.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences resulting from the translation of the results and balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings and related foreign currency borrowings are charged or credited to reserves.
Other exchange differences arising from foreign currency transactions are included in profit on ordinary activities before taxation.
Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 61
