STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The directors are required by UK company law to prepare financial statements which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group for each financial period as at the end of the financial period and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing the financial statements, suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently, and reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made.
Applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
The directors are also responsible for maintaining adequate accounting records and sufficient internal controls to safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group and to prevent and detect fraud or any other irregularities.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the members of Dixons Group plc We have audited the financial statements of Dixons Group plc for the 52 weeks ended 30 April 2005 which comprise the consolidated profit and loss account, the statement of total recognised gains and losses, the balance sheets, the consolidated cash ow statement and the related notes 1 to 33.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the part of the directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the Companys directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with applicable UK law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation of the other information contained in the annual report including the directors Remuneration Report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant UK legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises the Directors Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Operating and Financial Review, the Corporate Responsibility Review, the Corporate Governance Statement, the Audit Committee Report, the Nominations Committee Report, the unaudited part of the directors Remuneration Report, Five Year Record and the Financial Information prepared under International Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 55
