NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with UK law and applicable accounting standards.
The principal accounting policies are set out below: 1.1 Accounting convention and basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention.
They incorporate the financial statements of the Company and all of its subsidiaries and associated undertakings.
The results of subsidiaries acquired are included from the date on which control passes.
The net assets of subsidiaries acquired are recorded at their fair values, reecting their condition at that date.
The results of subsidiaries disposed of are included up to the effective date of disposal.
Associated undertakings are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
1.2 Turnover Turnover comprises sales of goods and services excluding sales taxes.
Revenue for goods is recognised at the point of sale or, where later, upon delivery to the customer.
Revenue earned from customer support agreements is recognised as turnover over the term of the contracts when the Group obtains the right to consideration by performance of its contractual obligations.
1.3 Operating leases Rentals payable under property leases are charged to the profit and loss account in equal instalments up to each market rent review date throughout the lease term.
Rentals payable under leases for plant and machinery are charged to the profit and loss account in equal instalments over the total lease term.
1.4 Goodwill On acquisition of a subsidiary or associated undertaking, the fair value of the consideration is allocated between the identiable net tangible and intangible assets liabilities on a fair value basis, with any excess consideration representing goodwill.
Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries is included within intangible xed assets.
Goodwill relating to associated undertakings is included within the carrying value of the associated undertaking.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised as an asset on the balance sheet.
Where goodwill is regarded as having a limited useful economic life, it is amortised on a systematic basis over its estimated life up to a maximum of 20 years.
Impairment reviews of goodwill are carried out at the end of the first full financial year of ownership and at other times if there are indications that the carrying amount may not be supportable.
Where goodwill is regarded as having an indefinite life it is not amortised.
As permitted by FRS 10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, this represents a departure, for the purposes of giving a true and fair view, from the requirements of paragraph 21, Schedule 4 to the Companies Act 1985, which requires goodwill to be amortised.
The estimated useful economic life is regarded as indefinite where goodwill is capable of continued measurement and the durability of the acquired business can be demonstrated.
Where goodwill is not amortised, an annual impairment review is performed and any impairment is charged to the profit and loss account.
In estimating the useful economic life of goodwill, account is taken of the nature of the business acquired, the stability of the industry in which it operates, the extent of continuing barriers to market entry and the expected future impact of competition.
On a change from an investment in associated undertaking to a subsidiary, goodwill is calculated in accordance with FRS 2 Accounting for Subsidiary Undertakings.
This represents a departure, for the purposes of showing a true and fair view, from the requirements of paragraph 9, Schedule 4A to the Companies Act 1985.
Under the Companies Act 1985, goodwill on acquisition of a subsidiary is determined as a one stage calculation by considering the difference between the fair value of all identiable assets and liabilities and the aggregate consideration payable by the date control passes and the entity is consolidated into the Groups balance sheet.
Under FRS 2, separate calculations of goodwill are made at each stage of acquisition.
As permitted by FRS 10, goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 2 May 1999 remains eliminated against reserves.
This goodwill will be charged in the profit and loss account as appropriate on the subsequent disposal of the business to which it relates.
60 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05
