FOODSERVICE GROUP Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the sixty fifth Annual General a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares Meeting AGM of Aga Foodservice Group plc will be held at authorised to be purchased is 12,849,369 representing the Compton Suite, The National Motorcycle Museum, 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital : Coventry Road, Bickenhill, Solihull B92 0EJ on 4th May 2006 b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary at 12 noon for the purpose of dealing with the following share is 25p exclusive of expenses and taxes if any business: payable by the Company : Ordinary business: c the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105 per cent of the 1.
To receive and adopt the Annual Report and Accounts average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary for the year ended 31st December 2005. share as derived from The London Stock Exchange 2.
Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that ordinary share is 3.
To re-elect Mr S M Smith as a director.
purchased exclusive of expenses and taxes if any 4.
To re-elect Mr W B McGrath as a director.
To re-elect Mr V Cocker as a director.
d this authority expires on the earlier of the date 12 months after the passing of this resolution and the 6.
To re-elect Mr P E Jackson as a director.
conclusion of the next AGM of the Company following 7.
To approve the directors remuneration report for the the passing of this resolution: and year ended 31st December 2005. e the Company may make a contract to purchase 8.
To re-appoint the auditors,  ordinary shares under this authority before the expiry of LLP, to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting the authority, and may make a purchase of ordinary until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the shares in pursuance of any such contract.
Company at which accounts are laid.
To authorise the directors to determine the auditors P M Sissons remuneration.
To consider and, if thought fit pass the following 30th March 2006 resolution, which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution: That the authority conferred on the directors by article Notes: 4 B of the Companys Articles of Association be Entitlement to attend and vote: renewed for the period expiring on the earlier of the Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities date 15 months after the passing of this resolution and Regulations 2001, to be entitled to attend and vote at the the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company AGM and for the purpose of determining the number of following the passing of this resolution and for that votes they may cast, shareholders must be entered on the period the section 80 amount is 10,707,807.
Companys register of members at 6.00pm on Tuesday 2nd 11.
Subject to the passing of the foregoing resolution no.
10, to consider the following resolution, which will be Appointment of proxies: proposed as a special resolution: A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the AGM, That the power conferred on the directors by article 4 C of including any adjournment s thereof, may appoint one or the Companys Articles of Association be renewed for the more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote in his or her period expiring on the earlier of the date 15 months after the place.
A proxy need not be a shareholder.
Shareholders who passing of this resolution and the conclusion of the next have not elected to receive shareholder documents AGM of the Company following the passing of this resolution electronically have been sent a form of proxy containing and for that period the section 89 amount is 1,606,171. notes on completion and use.
Shareholders who would prefer to register the appointment of their proxy electronically Special business: via the internet can do so through Lloyds TSB Registrars 12.
To consider the following resolution, which will be website at www.
co. uk using their personal proposed as a special resolution: Authentication Reference Number this is the series of 24 That the Company be generally and unconditionally numbers printed under the shareholders name on the form.
authorised to make one or more market purchases Alternatively, shareholders who have already registered with within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Companies Lloyds TSB Registrars online portfolio service Shareview can Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 25p in the capital of the appoint their proxy electronically by logging on to their Company ordinary shares provided that: portfolio at www.
co. uk and clicking on Company ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 76 77 Notice of Annual General Meeting Meetings.
Full details and instructions on these electronic CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings proxy facilities are given on the website.
Please note that and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of electronic communication that is found to contain a CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the computer virus will not be accepted.
CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has To be effective, the form of proxy or electronic appointment appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his of a proxy must be received by Lloyds TSB Registrars not CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting, i. e. not action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is later than 12 noon on Tuesday 2nd May 2006.
The transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular appointment of a proxy will not prevent a shareholder from time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where attending and voting in person at the AGM.
applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers Appointment of proxies through CREST: are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies for and timings.
the AGM, including any adjournment s thereof, through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by The Company may treat a CREST Proxy Instruction as invalid using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. members, and those CREST members who have appointed Should any shareholder with special needs wish to attend the a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST meeting, please contact the Company so that appropriate sponsor or voting service provider s who will be able to take arrangements can be made.
the appropriate action on their behalf.
Persons who are not Aga Foodservice Group shareholders In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using will not be admitted to the meeting unless prior the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST arrangements are made with the Company.
Investors holding message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly Aga Foodservice Group shares through nominees including authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications PEPs and ISAs are welcome to attend - please contact your and must contain the information required for such investment manager or bring proof of your holdings with you instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
message regardless of whether it relates to the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given for a Copies of the contracts of service of directors unless previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be expiring or determinable by the Company within one year transmitted so as to be received by Lloyds TSB Registrars without payment of compensation and the register of ID 7RA01 by the latest time for receipt of proxy directors interests in shares in the Company will be available appointments specified above.
For this purpose, the time of for inspection at the Companys registered office between receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the 9.00am and 5.00pm on any weekday Saturdays and public timestamp applied to the message by the CREST holidays excluded from the date of this notice up to and Applications Host from which Lloyds TSB Registrars are able including the day before the meeting, and also at the place of to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in a manner the meeting for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during prescribed by CREST.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST An explanation of resolutions 10 to 12 inclusive is set out in sponsors or voting service providers should note that the report of the directors on page 16 under the heading CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in share capital.
2006 financial calendar Report and accounts posted 30th March 2006 Record date for final ordinary dividend 28th April 2006 Annual General Meeting 4th May 2006 Final ordinary dividend payable 2nd June 2006 2006 half year end 30th June 2006 FOODSERVICE GROUP Main addresses & advisers Head office and registered office Registrars 4 Arleston Way Lloyds TSB Registrars Shirley The Causeway Solihull Worthing B90 4LH West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone: 00 44 0 121 711 6000 Telephone Helpline : 0870 600 3953 Fax: 00 44 0 121 711 6001 International Helpline : 00 44 0 121 415 7047 e-mail: info@agafoodservice.
com Auditors Registered in England No 354715  LLP Financial advisers and joint stockbrokers Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein Joint stockbrokers Collins Stewart Shareholder information Shareholder information At 31st December 2005, the Company had 7,938 ordinary shareholders 2004: 8,537.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 78 79 Web addresses Aga Foodservice Group plc Heartland Esmach www.
com La Cornue CONSUMER PRODUCTS Falcon Foodservice Equipment www.
com Rangemaster Millers Vanguard Aga www.
co. uk Waterford Stanley Mono Equipment www.
com Cookware and accessories www.
net Aga Bakery Stellar Steam www.
com Domain AFE Serviceline www.
com Williams Refrigeration Fired Earth www.
fr OTHER WEBSITES Grange Eloma www.
com Printed on paper which is made from wood fibre from sustainable forests, is fully recyclable and biodegradable, totally chlorine free and produced at a mill that holds ISO 14001 certification Designed and produced by Mulvihill Mitchell Ltd 0121 585 7010 Printed by Renaultprint Ltd 0121 356 0331 FOODSERVICE GROUP Aga Foodservice Group 2005 advertising campaigns ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 80 81 Cutting energy costs in the commercial kitchen Aga Foodservice Group is calling the 44,400 off their annual energy bill Government and UK Foodservice Industry 5,800 per year in oil savings to bring the Back of House to Front of Mind and address how to reduce energy 338 tonnes of Carbon Dioxide consumption in the commercial kitchen.
With energy price increases of over 60% The financial savings would pay back the in the last year, reducing energy is now a capital cost of the equipment in less than high priority for those in the commercial 2 years and the Infinity Fryer in less than sector.
At Aga Foodservice we 6 months.
recognise that many commercial kitchens are home to old inefficient Aga Foodservice has spent several years equipment that is environmentally and raising the efficiency of its products, be financially detrimental to the businesses it refrigeration or prime cooking.
In our research document Improve range of products that address the issues of Energy Efficiency in the Commercial Kitchen, we reducing energy consumption, these include: highlight the financial and environmental savings a small, Falcon Infinity Fryer large and QSR commercial kitchen can achieve by simply replacing their old, energy guzzling equipment Eloma Combi-Ovens with new efficient appliances.
Glycol Refrigeration from Williams Even with energy prices continuing to rise, our research ECA approved refrigeration from Williams highlights the following savings for the UK Foodservice Energy Star Refrigeration from Victory.
Industry: 2.2 billion can be saved on its combined annual Since publishing our research, Aga Foodservice Group energy bills of 4.5 billion has worked closely with the Carbon Trust to promote their Interest Free Loans and encourage our customers 0.5 billion can be saved on its annual energy bill by to purchase our energy saving equipment.
To find out switching to the Infinity Fryer more about Interest Free Loans offered by the Carbon Carbon Dioxide emissions can be reduced by 15 Trust please call 0121 711 6006. million tonnes.
Its time for the UK Foodservice Industry to bring the For a capital cost of 80,000, one large commercial Back of House to Front of Mind so they can reap the kitchen can replace their current kitchen equipment with benefits of reduced energy bills, even though energy new, energy efficient models and save: costs continue to rise.
FOODSERVICE GROUP Excellence deserves recognition Aga Foodservice has invested in products that bring generation of combi-steamers by leading trade and Back of House to Front of Mind in the foodservice consultancy organisations.
The Group is now delighted sector for reasons of safety, health, efficiency and that the US Federal Agency Energy Star has made waste reduction.
Victory its 2006 Manufacturing Partner of the Year for In the last year sector awards have been given to its commitment to reducing energy consumption and Falcon for its Infinity Fryer and to Eloma for its latest to raising the profile of energy issues within the sector.
Foodservice Consultants Society International Europe Aga Foodservice Group plc 4 Arleston Way, Shirley, Solihull, B90 4LH Telephone: 44 0 121 711 6000 Fax: 44 0 121 711 6001 E-mail: info agafoodservice.
