ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 74 75 Statement of directors responsibilities The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the statement of auditors' responsibilities set out below, is made with a view to distinguishing the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation to the accounts.
The directors are required to prepare financial statements on pages 69 to 74 for each financial year which comply with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 and give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss for that year.
The directors consider that in preparing the financial statements, on pages 69 to 74 on a going-concern basis, the Company has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company maintains accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are responsible for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Independent auditors report To the members of Aga Foodservice Group plc We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Aga Foodservice Group plc for the year ended 31st December 2005 which comprise the balance sheet and the related notes.
These parent Company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Aga Foodservice Group plc for the year ended 31st December 2005.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the directors remuneration report and the parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent Company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the parent Company financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the directors report, the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report and the chairmans statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent Company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the parent Company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent Company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent Company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31st December 2005: and the parent Company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Birmingham 17th March 2006
