DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 37 Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report Meeting but will be seeking to renew such Re-election of Directors and the audited financial statements for authority at this years meeting.
The Articles of Association require that all the financial year ended 30 April 2005.
Directors who are subject to retirement by Substantial Shareholders rotation retire every three years, but they are Principal Activities and Business At 29 June 2005, the Company has been eligible to submit themselves for re-election Review informed of the following notifiable interests by the shareholders.
The Directors retiring The Company acts as the holding company in its issued ordinary share capital: by rotation at the Annual General Meeting of a group, which, during 2004 05, was Ordinary on 7 September 2005 are Mr A P Hichens and shares held % engaged in the production of corrugated Mr D R Piette but, being eligible, they offer Henderson Global and plastic packaging and of paper, primarily themselves for re-election at the Meeting.
Investors 23,544,828 6.05% from recycled waste, and the distribution of Following formal performance evaluation, office products.
A full review of the activities Standard Life the individual performance of both directors during the financial year ended 30 April 2005 Investments 17,609,371 4.52% offering themselves for re-election continues and future developments is given in the Legal & General to be effective and they continue to Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Investment demonstrate commitment to the role.
Review, Operating Review and Financial Management Ltd 14,200,183 3.65% Review on pages 4 to 21.
The principal Directors Interests in Shares subsidiary undertakings are listed in note The interests of the Directors and their Acquisitions and Disposals 32 on page 64 immediate families in the ordinary shares of The Group received unconditional clearance 10p each of the Company, including options Results for the Year from the Competition Commission for its granted but not yet exercised under the The financial results are shown on pages March 2004 acquisition of Linpac Containers Executive Share Option Schemes, were as 40 to 64. in the autumn of 2004.
The Group acquired shown in the tables on pages 34 and 35.
BPB Recycling, a recovered paper collection Dividends Employee Involvement and business, in August 2004 for 9.4 million.
An interim dividend of 2.6p net per ordinary Communications There were no significant disposals during share was paid on 8 March 2005 and the The Group is committed to effective employee the year.
Directors recommend a 0.2p increase in the communications to promote the understanding final dividend to 5.8p net per ordinary share, Research and Development and involvement of all its employees in the making a total dividend to be paid for the The Group recognises the importance Groups business objectives and performance.
year of 8.4p 2003 04: 8.2p net per ordinary of continuing to invest in research and Communications and personnel policies have share.
Subject to approval of shareholders development.
It is Group policy to develop been developed to reflect the philosophy of at the Annual General Meeting to be held on new product specifications commensurate operating management.
Information is regularly 7 September 2005, the final dividend will be with environmental needs and packaging communicated by briefings and newsletters.
paid on 20 September 2005 to shareholders solutions required by customers.
Research The Group operates a European Works on the register at the close of business on is also conducted into ways to improve Council, with representatives drawn from 19 August 2005.
The dividends per ordinary product quality and to find more cost efficient across the entire workforce in the EU countries share stated above are those actually paid methods of production and distribution.
in which the Group operates.
Meetings are or to be paid.
Historical dividends per share Research and development is conducted held to provide an exchange of transnational have been restated for the bonus element within divisional operations and expenditure information and consultation with employees.
inherent in the 26 March 2004 rights issue At each meeting, presentations are made is not significant.
in the five year summary on page 65. on the Groups business strategy, financial Directors Share Capital results, health and safety and environmental The biographies of the present Directors are Pursuant to the Companys employee share performance.
In 2005, the Group established on page 26.
All the present Directors served option schemes, 1,855,707 ordinary shares five divisional Consultation Forums for its throughout the year.
Other than as previously of 10p each were issued during the year.
These bodies are intended to disclosed in this Report and in respect of 47,296 shares pursuant to the Companys strengthen the process of information exchange, existing service agreements, no Director, employee share option schemes were issued consultation and representation between the either during or at the end of the financial between 30 April 2005 and 29 June 2005 Group and its workforce.
Business decisions year, has been materially interested in any inclusive.
The Company has not utilised its concerning capital investment, employment and significant contract or arrangement in relation authority to make market purchases of shares training take into account the Groups public granted to it at the 2004 Annual General to the Groups business.
The Group is a 38 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 Directors Report continued member of Business in the Community and Report to the members of that scheme.
Directors Responsibilities supports the involvement of its operations The Trustee Companies, where applicable, for Preparation of Financial in local community activities.
have Investment Sub Committees, which Statements have been established in line with guidelines As required by company law, the Directors Equal Opportunities recommended in the Myners Report.
are responsible for the preparation of The Group wholeheartedly supports financial statements for each financial year the principle and achievement of equal Health and Safety which give a true and fair view of the state opportunities in employment and its policies The Group recognises its responsibilities of affairs of the Company and the Group are designed to provide such equality and continues to promote all aspects of health and of the profit or loss for that period.
irrespective of sex, creed, ethnic origin, and safety in the interests of its employees In preparing those financial statements, nationality, sexual orientation, age or and members of the public.
A Health and the Directors are required to: disability.
Every possible step will be taken Safety Policy Statement has been approved to ensure that individuals are treated equally by the Board.
select suitable accounting policies and and fairly.
Depending upon their skills and then apply them consistently: Payment to Suppliers abilities, the Group applies the same criteria Although the Company does not follow any make judgements and estimates that to disabled persons as it does to other formal code or standard on payment practice, are reasonable and prudent: employees and, if necessary, retraining is the Company agrees terms and conditions in offered to any of its employees who develop state whether applicable accounting the UK with each supplier, which include a disability during such employment.
standards have been followed, subject terms of payment.
The Company pays each to any material departures disclosed and Pension Fund supplier accordingly, subject to all the terms explained in the financial statements: and The Group has five pension arrangements: and conditions of the order being satisfied by two defined benefit schemes which are such supplier.
The aggregate amount owed prepare the financial statements on closed to new entrants, one defined by the Company to trade creditors at 30 April the going concern basis unless it is contribution scheme, one Group personal 2005 was equivalent to 18 days of purchases inappropriate to presume that the Group pension plan and a statutory Stakeholder invoiced by suppliers during the year.
The defined contribution Charitable and Political Donations The Directors are responsible for keeping scheme was introduced for UK employees The Group contributed 128,000 109,000 proper accounting records which disclose joining the Group on or after 1 May 2005. to charities in the UK.
No payments were with reasonable accuracy at any time the The investment of the assets of the various made to political parties.
Donations were financial position of the Company and arrangements are managed on a discretionary made by operating divisions to support their enable them to ensure that the financial basis by AllianceBernstein Institutional local communities and industries.
The Group statements comply with the Companies Investment Management Limited, Schroder also supported a number of other charities Act 1985.
They have general responsibility Investment Management Limited, Deutsche across a range of causes.
for taking such steps as are reasonably Asset Management Limited, Capital open to them to safeguard the assets of the Annual General Meeting International Limited and Legal and General Group and to prevent and detect fraud and The notice of the Annual General Meeting Investment Management Limited for the other irregularities.
of the Company to be held on 7 September defined benefit schemes.
The new defined 2005, together with explanations of the contribution scheme is a trust-based Resolutions to be proposed, appears at the arrangement offering members a range of back of this Annual Report.
investments with Axa Sun Life plc and external investment fund managers, selected Auditors by the Schemes trustees.
The Group personal Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as pension plan is a contract-based arrangement auditors of the Company and to authorise the offering members a range of investments with Directors to determine their remuneration will Norwich Union Life and external investment be put to the Annual General Meeting.
fund managers, and the Stakeholder By Order of the Board arrangement is provided through Investment Solutions Limited.
All such assets are held Carolyn Cattermole independently from the Group.
The trustees Secretary of each pension scheme send an Annual 29 June 2005
