66 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 Notice of Annual General Meeting 2005 Notice is hereby given that the Annual 9 That: c the maximum price which may be General Meeting of DS Smith Plc will be paid for each ordinary share is an amount a in accordance with article 7 of the held at the Great Eastern Hotel, Liverpool equal to 105% of the average of the Articles of Association of the Company, Street, London EC2M 7QN, on Wednesday middle market quotations for an ordinary the Directors be given power to allot 7 September 2005 at 12 noon to consider share as derived from the London Stock equity securities for cash: and, if thought fit, pass the following Exchange Daily Official List for the five b the Directors be empowered to allot resolutions, of which Resolutions 1 to 8 business days immediately preceding the equity securities within Section 94 3A will be proposed as ordinary resolutions date of any such purchase exclusive of of the Companies Act 1985 as if Section and Resolutions 9, 10 and 11 will be expenses payable by the Company : and 89 1 of the Act did not apply: proposed as special resolutions: d the authority hereby conferred shall, c the powers under paragraph a above 1 To receive and adopt the Directors unless previously varied, revoked or other than in connection with a rights Report, the Auditors Report and renewed, expire on 6 December 2006 or, issue and paragraph b above shall financial statements for the year ended if earlier, at the conclusion of the next be limited to the allotment of equity 30 April 2005.
Annual General Meeting of the Company, securities having a maximum nominal save that the Company shall be entitled 2 To declare a final dividend on the amount of 1,945,957: under such authority to make at any time ordinary shares.
before the expiry thereof any contract to d these authorities shall expire at 3 To approve the Report on Remuneration.
purchase its ordinary shares which will or the conclusion of the Annual General might be concluded wholly or partly after 4 To re-elect Mr A P Hichens as a Director Meeting to be held in 2006 or, if earlier, the expiry of such authority.
6 December 2006 save that the Company shall be entitled under such authorities to 11 That the regulations set out in the printed 5 To re-elect Mr D R Piette as a Director honour at any time before expiry thereof document submitted to the Meeting and of the Company.
any commitment to allot its ordinary for the purpose of identification initialled 6 To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as shares which will or might be concluded by the Chairman be adopted as the Auditors of the Company.
wholly or partly after the expiry of such Articles of Association of the Company authority: and in substitution for all existing articles of 7 To authorise the Directors to determine association of the Company.
the remuneration of the Auditors.
e all previous authorities under Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 By Order of the Board 8 That: be revoked.
Carolyn Cattermole a in accordance with article 6 of the 10 That in accordance with article 11 of the Secretary Articles of Association of the Company, 4-16 Artillery Row Articles of Association of the Company the Directors be authorised to allot London SW1P 1RZ and the Companies Act 1985, the relevant securities up to a maximum 21 July 2005 nominal amount of 10,897,359: Company is generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases b this authority shall expire at the within the meaning of the Companies conclusion of the Annual General Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 10p each Meeting to be held in 2006 or, if earlier, in the capital of the Company in such 6 December 2006 save that the Company manner and on such terms as the shall be entitled under such authority to Directors may from time to time honour at any time before expiry thereof determine provided that: any commitment to allot its ordinary shares which will or might be concluded a the maximum number of ordinary wholly or partly after the expiry of such shares hereby authorised to be purchased authority: and is 38,914,411 ordinary shares: c all previous authorities under b the minimum price which may be paid Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 for each ordinary share is 10p exclusive be revoked.
of expenses payable by the Company : DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 67 instruction given to a previously v Copies of the following documents Notes appointed proxy must, in order to be will be available for inspection at the i Only those Members registered in the valid, be transmitted so as to be received Registered Office and at the offices of Register of Members of the Company by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by Allen & Overy LLP, One New Change, as at 6 pm on 5 September 2005 shall be the latest time for receipt of proxy London, EC4M 9QQ during normal entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting appointments specified in iii above.
business hours and at the place of in respect of the number of shares For this purpose, the time of receipt the Meeting from 11.45 am until registered in their names at that time.
will be taken to be the time as its conclusion: ii A Member entitled to attend and vote at determined by the timestamp applied to a Service contracts of the Executive the Meeting is entitled to appoint one or the message by the CREST Applications Directors: more Proxies to attend and, on a poll, to Host from which the issuers agent is vote instead of him.
A Proxy need not be b Letters of appointment of the able to retrieve the message by enquiry a Member of the Company.
non-Executive Directors: to CREST in the manner prescribed by iii A Form of Proxy is enclosed.
After this time any change of c Articles of Association: and effective, Forms of Proxy must reach the instructions to proxies appointed through d Proposed new Articles of Association.
Registrars at the address shown on the CREST should be communicated to the Form not later than 48 hours before the appointee through other means.
vi The Chairmen of the Audit, time of the Meeting.
Completion and Remuneration and Nomination CREST Members and, where applicable, return of the Form will not, however, Committees will be available to answer their CREST sponsors or voting service prevent a Member from attending and relevant questions at the Meeting.
providers should note that CRESTCo voting at the Meeting.
does not make available special iv CREST Members who wish to procedures in CREST for any particular appoint a proxy or proxies through the messages.
Normal system timings CREST electronic proxy appointment Explanatory notes on the resolutions and limitations will therefore apply in service may do so for the Meeting to relation to the input of CREST Proxy Resolution 1: be held on 7 September 2005 and any Instructions.
It is the responsibility of Report and financial statements adjournment s thereof by using the the CREST Member concerned to take The Directors present to shareholders at procedures described in the CREST or, if the CREST Member is a CREST the Annual General Meeting the Reports of Manual.
CREST personal Members or personal Member or sponsored Member the Directors and Auditors and the financial other CREST sponsored Members, and or has appointed a voting service statements of the Company for the year those CREST Members who have provider s, to procure that his CREST ended 30 April 2005.
These are contained appointed a voting service provider s, sponsor or voting service provider s in the Annual Report.
should refer to their CREST sponsor or take s such action as shall be necessary voting service provider s, who will be Resolution 2: to ensure that a message is transmitted able to take the appropriate action on Declaration of a final dividend by means of the CREST system by their behalf.
Final dividends declared by shareholders any particular time.
In this connection, must not exceed the amount recommended In order for a proxy appointment or CREST Members and, where applicable, by the Directors.
By passing Resolution 2, instruction made using the CREST their CREST sponsors or voting service shareholders will declare a final dividend.
service to be valid, the appropriate providers are referred, in particular, to The amount of the final dividend CREST message a CREST Proxy those sections of the CREST Manual recommended by the Directors is 5.8p Instruction must be properly concerning practical limitations of the net per ordinary share.
authenticated in accordance with CREST system and timings.
CRESTCos specifications and must Resolution 3: The Company may treat as invalid contain the information required for such Approval of Report on Remuneration a CREST Proxy Instruction in the instructions, as described in the CREST As required by the Directors Remuneration circumstances set out in Regulation Manual.
The message, regardless of Report Regulations 2002, shareholder approval whether it constitutes the appointment 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities is sought for the Report on Remuneration set of a proxy or an amendment to the Regulations 2001. out on pages 30 to 36.
68 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 Notice of Annual General Meeting 2005 continued Resolutions 4 and 5: ensure compliance with recently published on 6 December 2006, except in so far as Re-election of Directors institutional guidelines and market practice, commitments to allot shares have been The Articles of Association of the Company it is proposed that the authority will expire entered into before that date.
It is the present require that all Directors retire at least at the conclusion of the next Annual General intention of the Directors to seek a similar once every three years but are eligible to Meeting, or, if earlier, on 6 December 2006, authority annually.
submit themselves for re-election by the except in so far as commitments to allot Resolution 10: shareholders.
The Directors who retire at shares have been entered into before that date.
Companys authority to purchase shares each Annual General Meeting are those who It is the present intention of the Directors to This Resolution, which will be proposed as a would otherwise have served for over three seek a similar authority annually.
special resolution, seeks to renew the existing years without re-election by the date of the Resolution 9: authority for the Company to purchase its own following Annual General Meeting.
Directors power to disapply shares in the market.
This authority gives the Mr Hichens will retire and, being eligible, pre-emption rights Company greater flexibility in managing its offers himself for re-election at this years This Resolution, which will be proposed as a capital resources.
The Directors have no Annual General Meeting.
Mr Hichens is special resolution, supplements the Directors specific intention of using this authority and Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
authority to allot shares in the Company would do so only when, in the light of market Mr Piette is submitting himself for proposed by Resolution 8. conditions, they believed that the effect of re-election as he has served more than such purchases would be to increase earnings Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 three terms of appointment.
per share, and that the purchases were in the requires a company proposing to allot equity A biography of each Director, including interests of shareholders generally.
The securities for cash to offer them first to those seeking re-election, appears on page Directors would also give careful consideration existing shareholders pro rata to their existing 26 of the Annual Report.
to gearing levels of the Company and its shareholdings.
Authority was granted to the general financial position.
The purchase price Resolutions 6 and 7: Directors at last years Annual General would be paid out of distributable profits.
Re-appointment of Auditors Meeting and the Directors propose to seek The auditors of a company must be reshareholders approval to renew this authority, Resolution 10 specifies the maximum number appointed at each general meeting at which pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act of shares which may be purchased accounts are presented.
Resolution 6 proposes 1985, to allot such securities, notwithstanding representing 10 per cent of the Companys the re-appointment of the Companys existing the requirement imposed by Section 89, in issued share capital at 30 April 2005, the Auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, until the next two cases: minimum and maximum prices at which they Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 7 gives may be bought and when the authority will in connection with a rights issue: and authority to the Directors to determine the expire, reflecting the requirements of the Auditors remuneration.
allotments of shares for cash up to a total Companies Act 1985 and the Listing Rules nominal value of 1,945,957 representing Resolution 8: of the FSA.
5 per cent of the Companys issued share Directors authority to allot shares The maximum price at which the shares capital at 29 June 2005 although it is not Authority was granted to the Directors at last may be purchased is 5 per cent above the intended without prior consultation with the years Annual General Meeting, pursuant to average of the middle market values of those investment committee of the Association of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, to shares for the five business days before the British Insurers to issue or transfer in this allot shares in the Company without the prior purchase is made.
way more than 7.5% of the share capital consent of shareholders for a period of five in a rolling three year period.
Resolution 8, which will be proposed Purchases of shares under the proposed the Directors flexibility to take advantage as an ordinary resolution, will, if passed, authority are required by the FSA to be of business opportunities as they arise, give the Directors renewed authority to allot made in compliance with The Model Code.
including the sale of any shares the shares up to a maximum nominal value of Accordingly, the Company would not Company has purchased and held in 10,897,359 representing 28 per cent of the exercise the authority at a time when the treasury, whilst the 5 per cent limit ensures issued share capital of the Company at 29 Directors would be precluded from dealing that existing shareholders interests are June 2005. in the Companys shares.
Specifically, protected, and is in line with guidelines purchases would not be made within the Other than in connection with any exercise issued by institutional investors bodies.
60 days preceding the announcement of of options under the Groups employee the interim or final results.
This proposal share option schemes, the Directors have no To comply with recent guidelines this present intention of exercising the allotment authority will expire at the conclusion of the should not be taken as an indication that authority proposed by this Resolution.
To next Annual General Meeting, or, if earlier, the Company would purchase shares at any DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 69 particular price or to imply any opinion on The following is a summary of the principal changed to uncertificated form for a period the part of the Directors as to the market or changes proposed to be contained in the specified in that notice.
other value of the Companys ordinary shares.
new Articles of Association of the Company.
Article 26 Disclosure of interests in shares Other minor wording and administrative The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Article 26 now allows the Company to changes have been made to bring the Articles Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 enable exercise any of its powers under article 25 of Association in line with current best in respect of any default shares in certain listed companies to hold shares in practice and the Listing Rules of the UK uncertificated form.
treasury, as an alternative to cancelling them, Listing Authority and these changes require following a purchase of own shares by the Article 37 Amendments to resolutions no further explanation.
A copy of the new Company in accordance with the Companies In the case of a resolution to be proposed as Articles of Association of the Company is Act 1985.
Shares held in treasury may an ordinary resolution no amendment may be available for inspection at the addresses subsequently be cancelled, sold for cash or made unless notice of the intention to move specified in the Notice of Annual General used to satisfy share options and share awards the amendment is received at the Registered Meeting of the Company.
under the Companys share schemes.
Once Office at least 48 hours before the time fixed Article 2 Interpretation held in treasury, the Company is not entitled for the holding of the relevant meeting.
The to exercise any rights, including the right This article includes a new definition of required period for receipt of intention of relevant system and amended definition of to attend and vote at meetings in respect amendment has been reduced from 5 days of those shares.
Further, no dividend or Statutes in order to bring it in line with the to 48 hours.
distribution of the Companys assets may Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Article 50 Appointment of a proxy be made to the Company in respect of those Following the introduction of legislation Article 50 includes a new provision allowing shares whilst held in treasury.
relating to treasury shares, a new definition the Board, in relation to uncertificated shares, Accordingly, if the Directors exercise of treasury shares is added.
In addition, this to approve the appointment of a proxy by the authority conferred by Resolution 10, article makes it clear that references relating means of an electronic communication in the the Company will have the option of to rights attaching to any shares, Members form of an uncertificated proxy instruction.
holding those shares in treasury rather than right to attend and vote at general meetings, The new provision is based on specimen cancelling them.
any distribution of the Companys assets to wording published by CREST Company Members or interests in proportion of the Limited and is specific to the CREST proxy The total number of ordinary shares that are issued share capital, shall be construed as voting launched on 20 January 2003. under option through the Companys share though any treasury shares had been cancelled, option schemes at 29 June 2005 being the Article 55 Age of Directors unless expressly provided by legislation.
latest practicable date prior to publication New article 55 has been included in the of this notice is 11,550,496 of which Articles of Association in order to eliminate Article 7 Dis-application of 10,267,415 are options over unissued any age restrictions on the appointment or pre-emption rights ordinary shares.
The proportion of issued re-election of Directors.
Directors who reach The additions in article 7 stem from the ordinary share capital that the options over the age of 70 will put themselves up for legislation in relation to treasury shares.
unissued ordinary shares represented on this re-election on an annual basis.
In particular, the definition of allotment of date was 2.64% and the proportion of issued equity securities has been amended pursuant Article 61 Vacation of office of Directors ordinary share capital that they will represent to the Companies Acquisition of Own Under the existing article article 60 a if the full authority to purchase shares Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 Director should, upon resolution from the existing and being sought is used is 2.40%.
to include the sale of treasury shares for cash.
Board, vacate his office if he she was absent The authority will expire on 6 December from the Board and Board meetings for more Article 25 Uncertificated shares 2006 or at the conclusion of the next Annual than 12 months.
The new article 61 reduces general powers General Meeting whichever is the earlier.
the absence period to six months in order to Article 25 now contains two additional It is the present intention of the Directors to bring it in line with current best practice of powers of the Company in relation to seek a similar authority annually.
First, the Company may Resolution 11: require the holder of an uncertificated share, Article 87 Issue of share certificates Adoption of new Articles of Association by notice, to change the form of such share In addition to issuing share certificates This Resolution, which will be proposed to certificated form within a stipulated period.
under seal, article 87 is updated to expressly as a special resolution, adopts new Articles Second, the Company may, by notice to provide for share certificates to be signed of Association in place of the existing the holder of any share in certificated form, by at least one Director and Secretary or at least two Directors.
direct that the form of such share may not be 70 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 Notice of Annual General Meeting 2005 continued Article 128 Indemnity of officers Facilities The amendment to this article has been The Great Eastern Hotel has wheelchair proposed in light of the changes made by access.
If you are planning to come to the the Companies Audit, Investigations and Meeting and are a wheelchair user, it would Community Enterprise Act 2004 to the law be helpful if you would telephone the venue relating to a companys ability to indemnify in advance on 020 7618 5618. its directors and officers in respect of Enquiries and questions liabilities incurred by them in connection Shareholders who intend to ask a question with their activities on behalf of the related to the business of the Meeting are Company.
The change to the article confirms asked to provide their name, address and the position that the Company has the ability question at the Registration desk.
Staff from but is not obliged to indemnify Directors Lloyds TSB Registrars will be on hand to and officers to the extent allowed by the provide advice and assistance.
Important notes about the Annual General Meeting Date Wednesday 7 September 2005 Location Great Eastern Hotel, Liverpool Street, London EC2M 7QN Timing The Meeting will start promptly at 12 noon and shareholders wishing to attend are advised to be in the venue no later than 11.50 am.
The reception area will be open from 11.30 am, from which time refreshments will be served.
Travel information See map on the reverse of Admittance Card for the location of the Great Eastern Hotel, and the nearest underground and railway stations.
The venue is less than five minutes walk from Liverpool Street station.
There are no car parking facilities at the venue.
Admission Please bring the Admittance Card with you to the Meeting.
You may be asked to show the Card before being admitted to the venue.
Shareholders and proxy holders may also be required to provide proof of identity.
The registration process may take longer without these documents.
Shareholders are politely requested to bring no more than one guest to the Meeting except by prior arrangement with the Company Secretary.
