40 East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the financial statements.
The Group has followed the transitional arrangements for FRS17 Retirement benefits in these financial statements.
Basis of accounting The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost accounting rules and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
The details of a true and fair override in respect of Third Party Contributions is set out below.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of East Surrey Holdings plc and all its subsidiaries, and joint venture.
These financial statements are prepared up to 31 March 2005. a The consolidation of the results of Sutton and East Surrey Water plc and The Cheam Group plc were effected in accordance with the principles of merger accounting set out in Financial Reporting Standard No 6 and Schedule 4 of the Companies Act 1985. b For all other subsidiaries the acquisition method of accounting has been adopted.
Under this method, the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired in the year are included in the consolidated profit and loss account from the date of acquisition.
In the Companys financial statements, the investments in Sutton and East Surrey Water plc and The Cheam Group plc are stated at fair value to the Group at their date of acquisition.
As permitted by Sections 131 and 133 of the Companies Act 1985, the premiums arising on the Ordinary Shares issued in connection with these transactions have not been credited to the share premium account but were credited originally to a merger reserve.
Investments in other subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less any impairment.
Where there is clear evidence of material impairment, such investments are written down to their recoverable amount.
Dividends received and receivable are credited to the companys profit and loss account to the extent that they represent a realised profit for the Company.
The Company has taken advantage of Section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 allowing it not to publish a separate profit and loss account.
Goodwill Purchased goodwill representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration plus any associated costs given over the fair value of the separable net assets acquired arising on business combinations in respect of acquisitions before 1 April 1998, when FRS10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets was adopted, and differences arising from merger representing the nominal value of shares received in exchange was written off against reserves on acquisition.
When subsequent disposal occurs any related goodwill previously written off to reserves is written back through the profit and loss account as part of the profit on disposal.
Purchased goodwill arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions since 1 April 1998 is capitalised.
Positive goodwill is amortised to nil by equal annual instalments over its estimated useful economic life.
On the subsequent disposal or termination of a business acquired since 1 April 1998, the profit or loss on disposal or termination is calculated after charging the unamortised amount of any related goodwill.
Intangible asset The value of the Phoenix Natural Gas licence is based upon an economic analysis of the cash flows arising from the regulatory model.
The licence is amortised over 40 years, being its minimum term, profiled over the expected gas consumption during that period.
Turnover Turnover represents the income receivable for goods or services provided in the ordinary course of business excluding VAT.
Turnover includes an accrual for measured water.
Revenue from gas sales is recognised upon delivery of the product to the customer.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The cost to the Group of awards to employees under the LTIP is spread on a straight line basis over the relevant performance criteria period.
The LTIP has made two awards of a number of shares to senior employees.
These will vest after two and a quarter years and three years respectively, if performance criteria are met.
The awards may be settled either in shares or in cash, depending on the companys decision.
No shares are held in trust in respect of the LTIP.
Infrastructure renewals accounting Expenditure on infrastructure assets, which are considered to have indefinite economic lives, relating to increases in capacity or enhancements of the network is treated as capital expenditure.
Expenditure on maintaining the network in accordance with defined standards of service is regarded as mains renewals and is also treated as capital expenditure under FRS15 Tangible Fixed Assets.
The depreciation charge for infrastructure assets is the long-term normal annual level of expenditure required, based on a recent asset management plan.
East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 41 Depreciation Freehold land is not depreciated.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of other fixed assets to their estimated residual value by equal instalments over their estimated useful lives as follows: Years Buildings, boreholes and service reservoirs 40-100 Gas distribution mains 60 Phoenix gas distribution system services 35 Plant and machinery 10-25 Motor vehicles and sundry plant 3-15 Third party contributions Prior to 1 April 1990 in certain circumstances third parties were required to make non-returnable contributions towards the cost of specific infrastructure assets.
From 1 April 1990 non-returnable contributions are also required from third parties towards the costs of future assets in respect of the connection of new properties to the water supply system.
When the infrastructure assets to which the contributions relate have indefinite economic lives, capital contributions towards them are deducted from the cost of these assets.
Although acceptable under accounting standards, this is not in accordance with Schedule 4 to the Companies Act 1985 under which the infrastructure costs should be stated at their purchase price or production cost and the capital contributions treated as deferred income and released to profit and loss account over the useful life of the corresponding assets.
The directors are of the opinion that, as infrastructure assets have indefinite economic lives it is not practicable to defer such contributions and release them as described above.
Accordingly, the treatment required by the Companies Act 1985 would not present a true and fair view of the Groups effective investment in infrastructure assets.
Movements in capital contributions and the net contribution are set out in note 13, which therefore shows the effect of the Groups policy.
Grants Deferred income relates to a European Regional Development Grant specifically related to capital expenditure on the Phoenix Natural Gas transmission pipeline.
It is credited to the profit and loss account over the related assets useful economic life.
Impairment of fixed assets Tangible fixed assets with an estimated useful life in excess of 50 years are subject to an annual impairment review.
Goodwill and other intangible fixed assets are also subject to an annual review.
Investment Investments are stated at cost less any amounts written off to reflect impairment in the value of the asset.
Stocks Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on a weighted average basis.
Leased assets Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalised and the outstanding future lease obligations are shown in creditors.
The finance element of rentals are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Derivative financial instruments The Groups borrowings are stated net of issue costs incurred when arranging the debt.
The issue costs are amortised at a constant rate over the remaining life of the borrowing.
The Group is party to a number of interest rate swaps undertaken to eliminate interest rate exposure on its borrowings.
The Groups hedging policy is to convert substantially all floating rate borrowings to a fixed rate.
Interest payments arising from interest rate swaps are recorded on an accruals basis, with amounts payable or receivable in respect of these instruments being recognised as adjustments to the interest expense of the hedged liability.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised with discounting in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS19.
Pensions The Groups subsidiary, Sutton and East Surrey Water plc, operated a pension scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable pay.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group.
Contributions to the scheme are charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost of pensions over employees working lives.
Other Group companies provided money purchase schemes.
Contributions to these schemes are charged in respect of the accounting period to which they relate and amounted to 211,000 98,000.
