40 East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the financial statements.
The Group has followed the transitional arrangements for FRS17 Retirement benefits in these financial statements.
Basis of accounting The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost accounting rules and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
The details of a true and fair override in respect of Third Party Contributions is set out below.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of East Surrey Holdings plc and all its subsidiaries, and joint venture.
These financial statements are prepared up to 31 March 2005. a The consolidation of the results of Sutton and East Surrey Water plc and The Cheam Group plc were effected in accordance with the principles of merger accounting set out in Financial Reporting Standard No 6 and Schedule 4 of the Companies Act 1985. b For all other subsidiaries the acquisition method of accounting has been adopted.
Under this method, the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired in the year are included in the consolidated profit and loss account from the date of acquisition.
In the Companys financial statements, the investments in Sutton and East Surrey Water plc and The Cheam Group plc are stated at fair value to the Group at their date of acquisition.
As permitted by Sections 131 and 133 of the Companies Act 1985, the premiums arising on the Ordinary Shares issued in connection with these transactions have not been credited to the share premium account but were credited originally to a merger reserve.
Investments in other subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less any impairment.
Where there is clear evidence of material impairment, such investments are written down to their recoverable amount.
Dividends received and receivable are credited to the companys profit and loss account to the extent that they represent a realised profit for the Company.
The Company has taken advantage of Section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 allowing it not to publish a separate profit and loss account.
Goodwill Purchased goodwill representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration plus any associated costs given over the fair value of the separable net assets acquired arising on business combinations in respect of acquisitions before 1 April 1998, when FRS10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets was adopted, and differences arising from merger representing the nominal value of shares received in exchange was written off against reserves on acquisition.
When subsequent disposal occurs any related goodwill previously written off to reserves is written back through the profit and loss account as part of the profit on disposal.
Purchased goodwill arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions since 1 April 1998 is capitalised.
Positive goodwill is amortised to nil by equal annual instalments over its estimated useful economic life.
On the subsequent disposal or termination of a business acquired since 1 April 1998, the profit or loss on disposal or termination is calculated after charging the unamortised amount of any related goodwill.
Intangible asset The value of the Phoenix Natural Gas licence is based upon an economic analysis of the cash flows arising from the regulatory model.
The licence is amortised over 40 years, being its minimum term, profiled over the expected gas consumption during that period.
Turnover Turnover represents the income receivable for goods or services provided in the ordinary course of business excluding VAT.
Turnover includes an accrual for measured water.
Revenue from gas sales is recognised upon delivery of the product to the customer.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The cost to the Group of awards to employees under the LTIP is spread on a straight line basis over the relevant performance criteria period.
The LTIP has made two awards of a number of shares to senior employees.
These will vest after two and a quarter years and three years respectively, if performance criteria are met.
The awards may be settled either in shares or in cash, depending on the companys decision.
No shares are held in trust in respect of the LTIP.
Infrastructure renewals accounting Expenditure on infrastructure assets, which are considered to have indefinite economic lives, relating to increases in capacity or enhancements of the network is treated as capital expenditure.
Expenditure on maintaining the network in accordance with defined standards of service is regarded as mains renewals and is also treated as capital expenditure under FRS15 Tangible Fixed Assets.
The depreciation charge for infrastructure assets is the long-term normal annual level of expenditure required, based on a recent asset management plan.
