plc 95 05 Notes forming part of the financial statements 1 Accounting policies The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate those of the holding company and its subsidiaries for the years made up to 30 September 2005 and 2004.
Unless otherwise stated, the acquisition method of accounting has been adopted.
Under this method, the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the year are included in the consolidated profit and loss account from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
In accordance with Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
The Companys profit for the financial year was 2.0 million 2004: loss of 1.3 million.
Goodwill On the acquisition of a business fair values are attributed to the separable net assets acquired.
Goodwill arises where the fair value of the consideration given and associated costs for a business exceeds the fair value of such net assets.
Goodwill is capitalised and amortised to the profit and loss account in equal instalments over its estimated useful life, not to exceed 20 years.
Associates and joint ventures An associate is an undertaking, not being a subsidiary, in which the Group holds a long term interest and over whose commercial and financial policy decisions it actually exercises significant influence.
The Groups share of the profit less losses from its associate is included in the consolidated profit and loss account on the equity accounting basis.
The carrying value of associates in the Groups balance sheet is calculated by reference to the Groups share of the net assets of such undertakings.
A joint venture is an undertaking in which the Group has a long term interest and over which it exercises joint control.
The Groups share of the profits and losses of joint ventures is included in the consolidated profit and loss account and its interest in their net assets is included in investments in the consolidated balance sheet on an equity basis.
Investments Fixed asset investments are stated at cost plus capitalised interest.
To the extent that the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount, an impairment loss is recognised in the profit and loss account.
Revenue Revenues comprise the invoiced value of airline services, net of passenger taxes, discounts, including internet booking discounts, plus ancillary revenue.
Revenue from the sale of flight seats passenger revenue is recognised in the period in which the service is provided.
Unearned revenue represents flight seats sold but not yet flown and is included in creditors.
Refunds made to passengers in the pre-flight period are recorded as reductions in revenue and any refunds made post flight are ordinarily recorded as marketing expense in the profit and loss account.
Ancillary revenues include credit card fees, excess baggage charges, sporting equipment fees, infant fees, change fees and rescue fees: profit share from in-flight sales of food, beverages and boutique items e. g. perfumes : commissions received from products and services sold such as hotel, car hire bookings and travel insurance: less chargebacks.
These are recognised as revenue on the date that the right to receive consideration occurs.
