1 Accounting policies continued Where foreign currency borrowings have been used to finance foreign equity investments or where those borrowings provide a hedge against the exchange risk associated with the existing foreign equity investments, the foreign equity investments are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The resulting exchange difference on the foreign equity investments is taken to consolidated reserves and, to the extent thereof, the resulting exchange difference on the foreign borrowings is offset against these exchange differences.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, other than as referred to above, are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains or losses on translation are included in the consolidated profit and loss account.
Financial instruments Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments are recognised in the profit and loss account when realised as an offset to the related income or expense, as the Group does not enter into any such transactions for speculative purposes.
Costs of procuring derivative financial instruments are held in debtors and matched against the period to which they relate.
Cash and liquid resources Cash, for the purposes of the cash flow statement, comprises cash in hand and deposits repayable on demand, less overdrafts repayable on demand, where formal offset arrangements are in place.
Liquid resources comprise deposits which have restrictions governing their use.
2 Segmental information All revenues derive from the Groups principal activity as an airline and include scheduled services, in-flight and related sales.
Substantially all of the Groups external revenues are earned by companies incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The geographical analysis of turnover is as follows: 2005 2004 million million Within the United Kingdom 224.5 224.1 Between the United Kingdom and the rest of Europe 869.9 728.5 Within the rest of Europe 247.0 138.4 1,341.4 1,091.0 All revenue from easyJets joint venture was derived within the United Kingdom.
easyJet's share of joint venture revenue for the year was 2.0 million 2004: 1.4 million.
All the Groups operating profit arises from airline-related activities.
The only revenue earning assets of the Group are its aircraft fleet.
Since the Groups aircraft fleet is employed flexibly across its route network, there is no suitable basis of allocating such assets and related liabilities to geographical segments.
