1 Accounting policies continued Tangible fixed assets and depreciation Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of assets, on a straight-line basis over their expected useful economic lives to the Group over the following periods: Period of depreciation Boeing 737-300 aircraft 7 years Airbus A319 aircraft 7 years Aircraft improvements 3-7 years Aircraft prepaid maintenance 3-7 years Aircraft spares 10 years from date of purchase Leasehold improvements 5 years Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3 years Computer hardware and software 3 years The aircraft which the Group holds are expected to have an operational life of 20-30 years.
However, the Group has a policy of using recently manufactured aircraft and, therefore, expects to hold them only for a period of approximately seven years before selling them.
An element of the cost of a new aircraft is attributed on acquisition to prepaid maintenance of its engines and airframe and is amortised over a period ranging from three to seven years from the date of manufacture.
Subsequent costs incurred which lend enhancement to future periods such as long term scheduled maintenance and major overhaul of aircraft and engines are capitalised and amortised over the length of period benefiting from these enhancements.
All other costs relating to maintenance are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
The cost of new Airbus aircraft comprises the invoiced price of the aircraft from the supplier less the estimated value of other assets received by easyJet for no consideration in connection with the transaction to purchase aircraft.
Principal assets received for no consideration in connection with the acquisition of aircraft include the following: l Cash The cash received is recognised as an asset in the balance sheet.
The corresponding credits are treated as a discount and are spread equally across each of the 120 Airbus aircraft to be delivered.
l Aircraft spares These are capitalised in the balance sheet at their list price and are then depreciated according to easyJets stated accounting policies for spares.
The corresponding credits are then spread equally across the cost of each of the 120 Airbus aircraft to be delivered.
Advance payments and option payments made in respect of aircraft purchase commitments and options to acquire aircraft are recorded at cost and separately disclosed.
On acquisition of the related aircraft, these payments are included as part of the cost of aircraft and are depreciated from that date.
Interest incurred on borrowings that specifically fund progress payments on assets under construction is capitalised, either as part of the asset or if that asset is subsequently sold and leased back, deferred and amortised over the term of the lease.
Disposal of fixed assets Profits and losses on the disposal of fixed assets are generally taken to the profit and loss account as incurred.
However, where the Group sells its rights to acquire an aircraft to an external lessor and then leases the aircraft back then, subject to complying with the conditions of SSAP 21, the excess or deficit of net sale price over fair value on disposal is spread over the assets lease term.
The disposal of the purchase rights being the amount of pre-delivery deposits paid are recognised as a disposal from tangible fixed assets.
