plc 95 05 Notes continued 1 Accounting policies continued Aircraft maintenance Provision is made for the estimated future costs of major overhauls of leased airframes, engines and auxiliary power units by making appropriate charges to the profit and loss account calculated by reference to the number of hours or cycles operated during the year as a consequence of aircraft rectification obligations placed on the Group by the operating lease agreements.
Leases All of the Groups lease contracts are of an operating lease nature and are accounted for as operating leases, where the rental charges are charged to the consolidated profit and loss account on a straight-line basis.
Employee share schemes The cost of performance-related awards to employees that take the form of rights to acquire or receive shares is recognised over the period of the employees related performance.
The cost represents the difference between the option exercise price if any and the market value of the shares at the date of gift or grant.
Where there are no performance criteria, the cost is recognised over the period from gift or grant to when the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the shares.
Where contingently issuable shares are gifted the cost of the share gift is recognised upon the crystallisation of the contingency.
Where performance criteria exist, the full potential cost is recognised over the period from gift or grant to when the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the shares.
If it becomes reasonably certain that certain performance criteria will not be met, the costs already accrued in respect of these are then credited to the profit and loss account.
These costs are included in administrative expenses.
The Company operates an Employee Share Option Trust.
Shares held by the Trust are included as a deduction from equity.
No expense is recognised in connection with the Sharesave scheme, under the exemption permitted by UITF 17 Employee Share Schemes.
Pensions The Group contributes to defined contribution pension schemes for the benefit of employees.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds.
Group contributions are charged to the consolidated profit and loss account in the year in which they are incurred.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date based on current tax rates and law.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Foreign currencies The Group holds its aircraft through overseas subsidiaries.
The functional currency of these subsidiaries is considered to be US dollars because they are funded substantially with US dollar loans and the aircraft are anticipated to be sold for dollars within approximately seven years of their acquisition.
Profits and losses of these and other overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at average rates of exchange during the year, with the adjustments to closing rates at the year end being taken to consolidated reserves.
The net assets of the overseas subsidiaries, including the advance payments made to secure the delivery of aircraft, are translated at closing rates, with gains and losses on re-translation also being taken to consolidated reserves.
Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings that hedge foreign currency net assets are also taken to reserves.
