Directors responsibility for the financial statements Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
This report and accounts contains certain statements, statistics and projections that are or may be forward-looking.
The accuracy and completeness of all such statements, including, without limitation, statements regarding the future financial position, strategy, projected costs, plans and objectives for the management of future operations of Electrocomponents plc and its subsidiaries is not warranted or guaranteed.
These statements typically contain words such as intends, expects, anticipates, estimates and words of similar import.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
Although Electrocomponents plc believes that the expectations reected in such statements are reasonable, no assurance can be given that such expectations will prove to be correct.
There are a number of factors, which may be beyond the control of Electrocomponents plc, which could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Other than as required by applicable law or the applicable rules of any exchange on which our securities may be listed, Electrocomponents plc has no intention or obligation to update forward-looking statements contained in our report and accounts.
34 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Directors responsibility for the financial statements
