Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of b the minimum price which may be paid for ordinary shares is 10p Electrocomponents plc will be held at the Companys premises: The per ordinary share: International Management Centre, 5000 Oxford Business Park South, c the maximum price which may be paid for ordinary shares is an Oxford OX4 2BH on Friday 15 July 2005 at 2:00 p. m. amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations The business of the meeting will be: for an ordinary share taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date Ordinary business of purchase: Report and Accounts d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the 1 To receive the accounts and the reports of the Directors and the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, unless such authority is auditors for the year ended 31 March 2005. renewed prior to such a time: and e the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares Directors Remuneration Report 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such 31 March 2005. authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in Declaration of dividend pursuance of such contract.
3 To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares.
Alteration of the Articles of Association indemnity to directors and Retiring Directors ofcers 4 To elect Mr K Abbott as a Director.
10 That Article 165.1 of the Companys Articles of Association be deleted and replaced with the following: 5 To re-elect Mr R A Lawson as a Director.
Subject to the provisions of CA 1985, but without prejudice to any 6 To re-elect Mr K Hamill as a Director.
indemnity which he may otherwise be entitled, every Director, alternate 7 To re-elect Dr F D Lennertz as a Director.
Director, Secretary or other officer of the Company except the Auditors shall be entitled to be indemnified out of the assets of the Auditors appointment and remuneration Company against any liability incurred by him for negligence, default, 8 To reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company and breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to the affairs of the to authorise the Directors to agree their remuneration.
Company, provided that this Article 165.1 shall be deemed not to provide for, or entitle any such person to, indemnification to the extent Special business that it would cause this Article 165.1, or any element of it, to be treated To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions which will as void under CA 1985. be proposed as Special Resolutions: By order of the Board Renewal of Directors authority to allot shares Carmelina Carfora 9 That the Company is hereby generally and unconditionally Company Secretary authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 25 May 2005 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 10p each in the Company ordinary shares provided that: Registered Office: International Management Centre, a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be 5000 Oxford Business Park South, Oxford, OX4 2BH purchased is 43,525,000: Registered Number: 647788 Notes: or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be i A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of attend and on a poll vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Appointment proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken of a proxy will not preclude a member from attending or voting at the meeting if he she subsequently to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications wishes to do so.
Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST ii Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
has specified that only those shareholders registered in the Register of Members of the Company as at 6:00 p. m. on 13 July 2005 will be entitled to attend or vote at the Meeting in respect of the number CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant Register of Members that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal after 6:00 p. m. on 13 July 2005 will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that iii A form of proxy is enclosed.
To be effective a proxy form and the authority if any under which it his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure is signed or a notarially certified copy of such authority must be deposited at the offices of the that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, Companys registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZL by CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in not later than 2:00 p. m. on Wednesday 13 July 2005. particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
iv CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 15 July 2005 at 2:00 p. m. The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will v The Register of Directors Interests and copies of all Contracts of Service of the Directors together be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
with terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection during business hours at the registered office of the Company and will be available for inspection at the In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate place of the Meeting from half an hour before the time of the Meeting until the conclusion of the Meeting.
CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described vi Biographical details of the Directors who are proposed for re-election or election at the in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy Annual General Meeting are set out on pages 20 and 21.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 59
