operating & financial review continued Normalised results are presented to provide a better indication of overall financial performance and to reflect how the business is managed on a day-to-day basis.
The normalised results exclude the amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible xed assets, any profit or loss on the disposal or closure of businesses and xed asset investments, other exceptional items including exceptional reorganisation costs, nancing costs and the tax impact of all these items.
Like-for-like or underlying are activities owned and operated for two financial periods, therefore excluding foreign exchange, acquisitions and disposals, launches and closures.
a share 2004: 15.9 pence making a total Emap Communications brings together group financial for the year of 24.9 pence a share 2004: business-to-business magazines, trade 23.5 pence.
exhibitions, conferences and information overview products, most of which serve five key Group revenues markets retail, construction, public sector, The following review is primarily based on The table below shows an analysis of Group healthcare and media and it has been normalised performance because, as the revenues by operating division.
Emaps fastest growing division this year.
denition states, this is how best to explain Turnover grew by 8%, with good organic the financial performance and reect how growth across the business enhanced by Revenue growth analysis 2004 the business is managed.
The reconciliation 2005 new exhibitions and conferences.
Underlying 376 between statutory and normalised results is 355 m turnover grew by 7%.
300 m m 231 213 Emap Performance comprised the radio, m Financial headlines m 160 161 music magazines and music television m m The Groups turnover for the year increased businesses.
a recovery in radio advertising in the second Total Group operating profit increased by Consumer Communications Performance France half and a strong performance in music Media 7% to 229m 2004: 214m.
Within this, ECM EC EP EF Group television offset by continuing weakness in associates including Emaps 27% stake Total 6% 8% 1% -7% 2% music magazines.
Underlying turnover, which in Scottish Radio Holdings contributed 7m Underlying 6% 7% 0% -7% 2% excludes the newly launched Kerrang!
Total Group operating margin FM radio station in the West Midlands and increased to 21% 2004: 20%.
digital radio advertising revenues, was level.
Emap Consumer Media mainly publishes Net interest in the period amounted to 24m consumer magazines in the UK, but also has Emap France is one of the leading consumer 2004: 18m.
Pre-tax profit was up 5% to magazines in Australia, the USA and South magazine publishers in France, and operates 205m 2004: 196m.
Tax in the period was Africa, as well as operating licences for with industry-leading margins in the French 52m 2004: 49m at the effective tax rate FHM and other titles around the world.
The of 25% 2004: 25%, and minority interests ECM turnover was up 6%, with strong trading environment in France has been were 5m 2004: 4m.
performances across the core portfolio very tough during the period, with continuing boosted by the launches of ZOO and Grazia.
competitive pressures compounded by After taking these into account, normalised Underlying turnover was also up 6%, with advertising weakness which increased during earnings per share were up 4% to 57.9 growth of the non-underlying ZOO and the second half.
Against this backdrop, total pence 2004: 55.8 pence.
The Board is Grazia offsetting the impact of closure of and underlying turnover decreased by 7%.
recommending a final dividend of 16.9 pence J17, The Face and a number of smaller titles.
There was also a year-on-year negative currency impact of 6m.
Reconciliation of normalised pre-tax profit to statutory pre-tax profit Bringing this all together, the Groups 2005 2004 revenues increased by 2% on both a total m m and an underlying basis.
Normalised pre-tax profit 205 196 Amortisation of intangible xed assets 50 47 Impairment of intangible xed assets 30 1 Amortisation of goodwill on associates 5 1 Loss profit on business disposals 6 1 Post-acquisition reorganisation costs 2 4 Statutory pre-tax profit 112 144 emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 7 operating & financial review continued Group operating profit relatively fixed cost advertising revenues, Group of 31% overall, comprising 30% The table below shows an analysis of Group although they remain the highest in the in the UK and 35% in France, due to tax operating profit by operating division.
The year-on-year negative currency efficient debt structuring and the continued impact on operating profits at Emap France resolution of prior year matters.
Operating profit analysis 2004 The Groups tax strategy is to minimise its 2005 70m 67m Bringing this all together, Group operating liabilities in all territories where appropriate, 59m 59m 57m profit increased by 5%, on a total and based on commercial circumstances, whilst 50m underlying basis.
balancing the risk of ever-changing 37m 35m legislation and delays in agreeing matters, Across the Group a total of 20m particularly overseas where they operate 2004: 17m was invested in new product within an audit system.
Consumer Communications Performance France development, principally on Grazia 6m, Media ZOO 4m, Kerrang!
105.2 FM 3m, An effective rate of 25% is expected to be ECM EC EP EF Group digital radio 3m, MEED Projects 1m maintained for 2005 06, due to continued Total 14% 19% -5% -12% 5% and The Hits on Freeview 1m.
reliefs from debt structuring, the expected Underlying 20% 13% 3% -12% 5% resolution of overseas tax audits and profit before tax resolution of UK structuring transactions.
Emap Consumer Media had a very Going from Group operating profit to profit successful year, increasing its operating before tax, Emaps associates and joint The normalised tax charge for 2004 05 was profit by 14%.
Underlying operating profit, ventures contributed 7m 2004: 2m, most 52m 2004: 49m, leading to normalised which excludes the investment in new of which comes from the equity accounted profit after tax of 153m 2004: 147m.
launches ZOO and Grazia as well as the 27.1% holding in SRH which was acquired now-closed J17 and The Face, was up 20%.
in January 2004, bringing Total Group Minority interests The operating margin increased again from operating profit to 229m 2004: 214m.
Minority interests, primarily in relation to Auto 17% to 18% as Closer moved into profit.
Plus in France and Frontline, Emaps UK The interest charge was 24m 2004: 18m, distribution subsidiary, were 5m 2004: 4m.
At Emap Communications operating profit also which included the full year interest cost grew strongly by 19%, 13% underlying, and from acquiring the SRH stake, the funding Earnings per share the operating margin increased from 28% costs of Cannes Lions and a one-off 2m After minority interests, the profit attributable to 30%, amongst the highest in the industry, write-off of unamortised bank facility costs.
with higher advertising yields converting strongly This was incurred because the Groups With 258m shares in issue, earnings per to profit and the closure of a number of small, revolving bank credit facility was renewed, share therefore increased by 4% to unprofitable magazines and exhibitions.
on more favourable terms, before the end 57.9 pence 2004: 55.8 pence.
of the life of the previous facility, leaving Emap Performances operating profits some outstanding unamortised costs to Statutory results increased by 3% underlying but declined in be written off.
As set out in the table on page 7, reconciling total by 5%, after a 3m investment on the between normalised and statutory performance launch of Kerrang!
The Groups pre-tax profit was 205m 2004: the most material difference is the amortisation This reduced margins from 23% to 22%.
of goodwill and intangible assets which amounted to 55m 2004: 48m, including In a tough environment Emap France saw its Tax and profit after tax 5m on associated undertakings 2004: 1m.
operating profit decline by 12% on a total The tax rate for the full year, as predicted at The other significant item is the impairment of and underlying basis, and operating margins the half year, was 25% and is consistent intangible assets, primarily in France, of 30m fell from 18% to 17% due to margin erosion with recent years.
The impairment charge is a at Tl Star and Tl Poche and the loss of standard rate of corporation tax for the result of the annual review of all of the Groups emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 8 carrying values and relates mainly to the TV As outlined above, normalised Group of minimising year-on-year fluctuations listings business and Biba and 20 Ans, titles operating profit was 222m 2004: 212m.
Both of these After adding non-cash charges relating to items are non-cash charges.
depreciation of 13m 2004: 15m and International financial reporting standards share schemes of 5m 2004: 3m, Emap is required to produce its accounts After post-acquisition reorganisation costs deducting capital expenditure of 12m in accordance with International Financial of 2m 2004: 4m, primarily on the Cannes 2004: 15m, and cash spend against Reporting Standards IFRS from 1 April 2005 Lions integration, and losses on business provisions of 4m 2004: 4m, and after under European legislation.
This means disposals of 6m 2004: profit 1m, mainly a net 5m cash working capital 2004: that the Groups first IFRS results will be the loss on disposal of ABI, Emap generated outow of 6m, adjusted operating cash its interim results for the six months a profit before tax of 112m 2004: 144m.
Total earnings per share were 21.6 pence 2004: 36.3 pence.
Interest, taxation and dividends amounted Emaps Group-wide IFRS conversion project to an outow of 140m 2004: 117m is well advanced, and all significant accounting Balance sheet the increase on last year primarily reecting policy changes have been identied and There is a high degree of consistency between a catch up on interest payments on the issues addressed.
The major changes the balance sheets at 31 March 2005 and bond and increased dividends.
The net to accounting policies are in the areas the previous year-end.
At 31 March 2005, net cash outflow from acquisitions and disposals of employee benets, in particular our dened assets amounted to 283m 2004: 282m, was 70m 2004: 150m - a net 51m for benefit pension schemes, share-based of which 561m 2004: 576m related to the acquisition of Cannes Lions, 15m for payments, accounting for goodwill and intangible xed assets acquired publishing the acquisition of ABI and 4m on minor intangible assets and accounting for financial rights and goodwill arising on acquisition.
As is acquisitions and businesses disposed of instruments, where the Group has elected to typical for media companies, Emap has a low during the year.
Proceeds on the sale of ABI apply the requirements of IAS 39 Financial capital base, and its value is better measured were received after the balance sheet date.
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement from its strong cash ows rather than the from 1 April 2005, so there will be no impact more traditional return on capital employed.
Taking all of this into account, net debt of this complex standard in either the opening reduced by 4m to 264m 2004: 268m.
IFRS balance sheet at 1 April 2004 or on the Cash ow 2004 05 restated results.
At the heart of Emaps strength is strong Dividend cash generation, which indicates its Emaps dividend policy has for some years The transition to IFRS has no effect on the high quality of earnings.
This year 99% been to grow the dividend marginally behind cash ows of the business.
2004: 97% of normalised operating profit the rate of earnings growth, over the course has been converted into cash, exceeding the of a normal business cycle, within a target The Group will update shareholders on the Groups internal target of 95% for the seventh range of dividend cover the ratio of impact of the transition to IFRS over the year in succession.
normalised earnings per share to the dividend summer, and will provide restated results per share of between 2.0 and 2.5 times.
for the year ended 31 March 2005 well in advance of publishing its first IFRS results 5 years profit into cash performance The Board is proposing to increase for the six months to 30 September 2005.
99% Although marginally ahead of normalised 97% 97% earnings per share growth, in recognition 95% Benchmark of this being a difficult year, the dividend cover will be 2.3 times, down from 2.4 times last year but still comfortably within 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 the target range, and has the advantage emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 9 Kiss has come a long way since its edgling years as a pirate radio station.
Fifteen years on, its a Sony award-winning station and is currently celebrating two years as the market-leading station for 15-24 year olds in London.
Its also a vibrant youth brand in its own right, spawning brand extensions such as its own TV station, CD compilations, online products and events.
According to research carried out by the Digital Radio Development Board in January 2005, Kiss has become the UKs most recognised digital radio brand.
Across the UK, 2.2 million adults now tune into Kiss every week Source: Rajar Q1 2005.
Capital structure and treasury policy Emap only deals with banks which meet Internal Emap funds its operations through a mix certain minimum credit ratings criteria in policy Bank of operating cash flow generated by the order to reduce the risk of loss on material Year-end limit covenant business, shareholders equity and debt.
transactions and the risk that committed but Net debt The aim is to maintain an efficient capital undrawn funding will not be available.
EBITDA 1.1X 3X 3.5X structure, balancing funding flexibility with the requirement for an appropriate cost of Our bank relationships are very important EBITDA capital.
The cost of capital is reviewed at to us and following the recent renancing interest 9.8X 6X 3.5X least twice a year and currently stands at the number of banks we deal with was 9.1%.
This is reflected in investment grade reduced from 18 to 10 and policies are in credit ratings by Standard & Poors and place to monitor how business is awarded Moodys, at BBB and Baa1 respectively.
The majority of Emaps debt is in Euros due across the banking group.
Internal policies on the level of debt require to the lower cost of borrowing.
The interest these credit ratings to remain at or above arising on the Euro debt also acts as IAS 39, the complex new international their current level: in order to achieve this a natural hedge for the operating profits accounting standard on financial instruments, the ratio of earnings before interest, of our French business when these are has been thoroughly reviewed by the Group tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA translated into Sterling for reporting and its advisers.
Not all of the Groups to interest is to be no less than six times on purposes.
The aim is to ensure that the current instruments meet the hedge average over a three year period and net currency of funding matches the cash accounting rules as dened by the new debt EBITDA to be no more than three flows available to service that funding, standard.
However, as these instruments times.
Level of debt in relation to retained including dividends.
Sufficient cash flows expire in the 2005 06 financial year, their cash flow is also mentioned.
are received in the UK from the French impact on the results is relatively certain.
business to ensure that this is the case.
These instruments will ideally be replaced Emaps debt is made up of a 250m bond with new transactions that do qualify for repayable in 2013 and a committed bank At least 25% of the Groups net interest cost, hedge accounting under the new regime facility to August 2009, diversifying maturity over a three-year planning horizon, is generally as the objective will be to minimise profit dates and reducing refinancing risk.
expected to be hedged i. e. capped or xed.
However the replacement The bond does not contain any financial Currently, approximately 60-70% of our hedges also need to make economic as covenants and the bank facility was exposure for 2005 06 is covered through the well as accounting sense.
renanced in August 2004, raising funds use of interest rate swaps, locking Emap into for a further five years at a significantly paying a xed rate of interest.
These swaps Total shareholder return lower cost and on improved terms.
were entered into in 2002 and are at interest Total shareholder return TSR is an important Our internal policy limits on the level rates above the current market levels though measure of performance for Emaps of debt are tighter than those imposed the cost of exit is prohibitive.
Cover has not shareholders because it combines the by the covenants in the bank facility, been extended beyond the current year due increase in the value of Emaps shares with underlining the financial flexibility to the low levels of forecast debt and the the return provided by the full-year dividend.
These policies provide relatively benign interest rate environment.
Together with earnings per share growth it a comfortable amount of headroom for Exposure to changes in Sterling interest rates forms the basis of Emaps PerformanceEmap to invest in the business either is immaterial.
related Pay Scheme, thus aligning shareholder organically or through acquisition.
The interests with the performance-related position at the year-end compared to bank Other than the impact of foreign exchange rewards of Emaps senior management.
covenants and internal policy limits is set on the translation of the results and balance out in the following table.
sheet of the French business into Sterling Emaps performance compared with the for reporting purposes, Emap does not have EIP comparator group of 15 quoted media significant foreign exchange exposures.
companies is highlighted in the Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 48.
In the five-year emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 10 operating & financial review continued period to 31 March 2005, a long enough is an important one.
Strong relationships competitive environment, there is a need period to be reective of sustained value with senior management are underpinned for more aggressive portfolio management, creation over time, Emap nished fifth in this by an emphasis on long-term contracts which could include both relaunches and comparator group for TSR, placing Emap for key shows, and through a shareholding closures.
Although this also carries some within the top third of the comparator group.
in National Exhibitions Centre risk, the risk involved in not adopting this Developments plc.
new strategy would be greater.
Risk Emaps diversity and exposure to over ten The radio business within Emap Performance The key risks for the Group as a whole different revenue streams give it the ability operates in one of Emaps most regulated are financial.
The impact of interest rate to reduce risk across the business.
All of Emaps radio stations are fluctuations are reduced by Treasury policies however, be unrealistic to claim that there developing plans to respond to the which set limits for xed or capped interest is no risk in the Groups activities, so Emap potential award of new analogue licences rate cover currently a minimum of 25%.
operates a continuous process of identifying, to competitors in their transmission areas, but There is a likelihood that the Groups current evaluating and managing risks where they conversely Emap has already benefited from tax rate of 25%, well below the standard rate are significant.
Further details of this process a new analogue licence award, for Kerrang!
of UK corporation tax due to the resolution are set out in the section entitled Systems 105.2 FM in the West Midlands.
The transfer of prior year matters, will increase over time of Internal Control in the Directors Report from analogue to digital broadcasting will also to something more in line with the standard on page 36. need to be carefully managed to protect and rate, although the Group will continue to enhance audiences and revenues.
The mitigate its tax liabilities whenever and At Emap Consumer Media, Emaps consolidation taking place amongst media wherever appropriate.
dependence on key brands is being buyers applies just as much to radio as it does offset by targeted launches and relaunches to consumer magazines, but an advertising Post balance sheet events to create a broader portfolio.
Developing downturn could potentially be more damaging On 14 April 2005, for a cash consideration long-term relationships with wholesale in radio.
Deal-based arrangements help to of S$4.25m 1.4m, Emap completed the partners is important to offset the risk secure stability and to ensure a guaranteed sale of the assets of its Singapore and of the continued growth of supermarkets proportion of an advertisers spend is allocated Malaysia business and, as part of this retailing magazines, as is the development to Emap even when markets are weak.
transaction, licensed Media Corp to publish of subscriptions for specialist titles.
The FHM in those countries and Mother & Baby consolidation taking place amongst media In France, the risk in a portfolio weighted in Malaysia.
This brings the Groups buyers gives them more negotiating power, towards the highly profitable TV listings titles arrangements for Singapore and Malaysia and makes it all the more important for has already become apparent.
In response in line with other territories where FHM Emap to be a media owner of scale.
Dealboth Tl Star and Tl Poche have been is published, leaving wholly-owned editions based arrangements with advertising clients revitalised, and production and marketing only in the UK, France, USA and Australia, are helping to secure stability.
efficiencies introduced to reduce costs.
and a joint venture in South Africa.
Over the last 10 years Emaps dependence For Emap Communications the web presents on this sector has gradually been reduced On 10 May 2005, Emap Communications both a threat and an opportunity, as barriers by acquisitions and launches into different announced the sale of ABI to United to entry, particularly for recruitment markets.
The changes that are taking place Business Media for 13m including cash advertising, become lower.
The transfer of in the French consumer magazines market, in the business.
This follows the some recruitment advertising to the web is as highlighted earlier, make major launches announcement by the Competition inevitable, but Emap Communications has a real possibility for Emap France at last, Commission on 26 January 2005 extended its own high quality brands onto bringing opportunity to grow the portfolio requiring the disposal by Emap of ABI.
the web and is itself attracting significant organically, although as always there is risk online recruitment advertising.
Emap is the around execution.
However, Emaps strong largest customer of the National Exhibition experience and launch track record in the Centre in Birmingham, so this partnership UK can help reduce this risk.
In a more emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 11
