Accounting policies Basis of preparation Joint ventures and associated undertakings The consolidated financial statements are prepared under the historical Where the Group has an investment in an entity which is sufficient to cost convention with the exception of certain tangible fixed assets and give the Group a participating interest, and over which it is in a position in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
The results for to exercise significant influence, the entity is treated as an associated the years ended 31 March 2005 and 31 March 2004 represent undertaking and is accounted for using the equity method.
in which the Group holds an interest on a long-term basis and which are jointly controlled by the Group and one or more other parties under Basis of consolidation a contractual arrangement, are treated as joint ventures and are accounted The consolidated financial statements comprise the accounts of the for using the gross equity method.
The results of all subsidiaries are taken from their accounts made up to 31 March or such earlier date not prior The results of joint ventures and associated undertakings are taken from to 31 December which represents their financial period end, as adjusted their accounts made up to 31 March or such earlier date not prior to for material items that have occurred in the intervening period.
The results 31 December which represents their financial period end, as adjusted of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings disposed for material items that have occurred in the intervening period.
of or acquired during the year are included up to, or from, the date that control passes.
New media holdings Holdings in new media companies that arise as a consequence of Foreign currencies licensing, distribution and other similar deals with such companies, Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates are carried at cost.
Income from these holdings, net of costs, is only of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and recognised when received as cash and is treated as other operating liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into Sterling income.
The costs relating to these investments are held within debtors either at year-end rates or, where there are related forward foreign until they are recognised with the related income.
exchange contracts, at contract rates.
The resulting exchange differences are dealt with in the determination of profit for the financial year.
Music copyrights Music copyrights purchased prior to 1 April 1989 were written off against On consolidation, average exchange rates have been used to translate shareholders funds on acquisition.
Copyrights acquired as a result of the results of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated acquisitions on or after 1 April 1989 are capitalised as intangible assets undertakings.
The assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries and in the Group balance sheet, and are amortised by equal annual amounts associated undertakings are translated into Sterling at year-end rates.
over not more than 20 years, other than in exceptional circumstances when sufficient ongoing impairment tests can be performed to support Exchange differences arising from the retranslation at year-end exchange a useful economic life of over 20 years.
Where a useful economic life of rates of: up to 20 years has been adopted, copyrights are reviewed for impairment i the opening net investment in overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures at the end of the first full financial year following acquisition and in other and associated undertakings and foreign currency borrowings in periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying so far as they are matched by those overseas investments: and value may not be recoverable.
ii the results of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings: Goodwill and other intangibles are dealt with in Group reserves.
Goodwill and recorded catalogue intangibles arising on acquisitions made after 31 March 1998 are capitalised and amortised over their expected Turnover useful life, principally restricted to 20 years, in accordance with FRS10 - Turnover represents the invoiced value or contracted amount of goods Goodwill and Intangible Assets.
They are reviewed for impairment at the and services supplied by the Company and its subsidiaries.
Turnover end of the first full financial year following acquisition and in other periods is stated net of actual product returns and excludes value added tax and if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may similar sales-related taxes.
Provision is also made in respect of expected not be recoverable.
future returns of goods and services supplied by the Company and its subsidiaries prior to the balance sheet date.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions made before 31 March 1998 has been charged directly against shareholders funds in the year of acquisition Pension costs and is included within the profit and loss reserve, yet separately identified Pension costs, which are determined in accordance with SSAP 24 - within the reserves note.
This goodwill will remain in reserves until, Accounting for Pension Costs are charged to the profit and loss account on the disposal or closure of any business, the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost of pensions over the working lives of the includes a charge in respect of the goodwill previously written off against employees within the Group.
Valuation surpluses or deficits are amortised shareholders funds on the acquisition of the business.
over the expected remaining working life within the Group of the relevant employees estimated to be nine years in respect of the UK.
The amortisation of valuation surpluses is restricted to an amount equal to the regular pension cost.
Accordingly, employer expense in respect of the main scheme, which covers employees in the UK, has been taken as nil for each of the two years ended 31 March 2005.
74 Tangible fixed assets Taxation Assets are held at historical cost with the exception that certain properties The Company has undertaken to discharge the liability to corporation tax in the subsidiary undertaking Toshiba-EMI Limited are carried at revalued of the majority of its wholly-owned UK subsidiaries.
Their UK tax liabilities amounts that were frozen as permitted on first-time adoption, under the are therefore dealt with in the accounts of the Company.
transitional rules, of FRS 15 Tangible Fixed Assets.
The frozen carrying value was deemed cost in the case of these properties.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions Leased assets or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay Assets held under finance leases are included as tangible fixed assets more tax, or right to pay less, or to receive more, tax, with the following at their estimated purchase cost and depreciated over their expected exceptions: useful lives, or over the primary lease period, whichever is shorter.
The Provision is made for tax on gains arising from the revaluation and obligations relating to finance leases net of finance charges allocated to similar fair value adjustments of fixed assets, or gains on disposal future periods are included under borrowings due within or after one year, of fixed assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, as appropriate.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss there is a binding agreement to dispose of the assets concerned.
account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
However, no provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is more likely than not that Depreciation of tangible fixed assets the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets.
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is calculated on cost at rates Provision is made for gains which have been rolled over into estimated to write off the cost, less the estimated residual value of the replacement assets only to the extent that, at the balance sheet relevant assets, by equal annual amounts over their expected useful lives: date, there is a commitment to dispose of the replacement assets.
effect is given, where necessary, to commercial and technical Provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on remittance obsolescence.
of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures only to the extent that, at the balance sheet The annual rates used are: date, dividends have been accrued as receivable.
Freehold buildings and long-term Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the leasehold property 2% Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be Short-term leasehold property Period of lease suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences 1 Plant, equipment and vehicles 10-33 3% can be deducted.
The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that in periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, value may not be recoverable.
based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Assets in the course of construction are held at cost and are depreciated from the date the asset comes into use.
Financial instruments Any premium or discount associated with the purchase of interest rate Stocks instruments is amortised over the life of the transaction.
Interest Stocks and work in progress are stated at the lower of cost and net receipts and payments are accrued to match the net income or cost realisable value, less progress payments on uncompleted contracts and with the related finance expense.
No amounts are recognised in respect provisions for expected losses.
Cost includes manufacturing overheads of future periods.
Directly attributable issue costs have been reported as a reduction in the Advances to artists proceeds of the relevant capital instrument and are amortised over the life Advances to artists and repertoire owners are assessed and the value of the instrument.
of the unrecouped portion to be included in debtors is determined by the prospects of future recoupment, based on past sales performance, current popularity and projected sales.
