50 Enodis plc Derivative financial instruments Accounting policies The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate movements.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
For a forward foreign exchange contract to be treated as a hedge the instrument must be related to actual foreign currency assets or liabilities or to a probable commitment.
It must involve the same currency or similar currencies as the hedged item and must also reduce the risk of foreign Basis of accounting currency exchange rate movements on the Groups operations.
Gains and losses arising on these contracts are The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
deferred and recognised in the profit and loss account, or as They have all been applied consistently throughout the year adjustments to the carrying amount of fixed assets, only and the preceding year.
when the hedged transaction has itself been reflected in the The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost Groups financial statements.
convention and comply in all respects with applicable For an interest rate swap to be treated as a hedge the Accounting Standards in the United Kingdom.
instrument must be related to actual assets or liabilities or a Reclassifications probable commitment and must change the nature of the interest rate by converting a fixed rate to a variable rate or Certain reclassifications have been made to the 2004 financial vice versa.
Interest differentials under these swaps are statements in order to conform to the 2005 presentation.
recognised by adjusting net interest payable over the periods Basis of consolidation of the contracts.
These accounts consolidate the accounts of the Company If an instrument ceases to be accounted for as a hedge, for and its subsidiary companies and undertakings subsidiary example because the underlying hedged position is entities, collectively the Group, made up to the period end.
eliminated, the instrument is marked to market and any The results of the subsidiary entities are included in the resulting profit or loss recognised at that time.
Group profit and loss account from the date of acquisition to Turnover the date of disposal.
Turnover represents amounts receivable for goods and Acquisitions and disposals services provided in the normal course of business, net of On the acquisition of a business, including an interest in an trade discounts and allowances, value added tax and other associated undertaking, fair values are attributed to the sales related taxes.
Groups share of net separable assets.
Where the cost of the Revenue from product sales is recognised when evidence of assets exceeds the fair values attributable to such net assets, an arrangement exists, all the risks and rewards of ownership the difference is treated as purchased goodwill.
Following the and loss have transferred to the customer, the price is fixed implementation of FRS10, goodwill arising on the acquisition or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured.
of subsidiaries is capitalised in the Group balance sheet in the Service revenue is recognised when services are rendered.
Goodwill arising on associates is included Property revenue is recognised upon completion of the sale with the carrying value of the associate.
when the profit is determinable and the earnings process is Foreign currency translation virtually complete.
Foreign exchange differences arising from exchange rate Research and development variations on trading transactions are included in operating Research and development expenditure is written off as it profit.
Overseas profits remitted to the UK during the is incurred.
period are translated at actual rates of exchange.
The balance sheets of overseas subsidiary entities are translated into sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the year end.
Profit and loss accounts are translated at the average rate for the month in which the profits were earned.
Differences arising from the restatement of opening foreign currency net investments and net overseas profits or losses are dealt with through reserves, as are differences on long-term foreign currency borrowings used to finance overseas investment.
Other translation differences are dealt with in the profit and loss account.
51 Enodis plc Accounting policies Pension costs Goodwill and other intangible fixed assets It is the general policy of the Group to fund pension liabilities, Goodwill arising on acquisitions has been capitalised and is on the advice of professionally qualified actuaries, by amortised over a period of 20 years: the Directors regard payments to independent trusts or to insurance companies.
20 years as a reasonable estimated useful life of goodwill Independent actuaries valuations are carried out at regular since it is difficult to make projections exceeding this period.
intervals, on a projected unit funding or attained age basis.
In When it is apparent that the carrying value of goodwill addition, the impact of any significant related events, such as exceeds the estimated net present value of future cash flows major changes in stock market values, are assessed through less operating assets, an impairment provision is charged a formal review process.
against the profit for the period.
Goodwill eliminated against reserves before the application of FRS10 has not been Charges in respect of defined benefit schemes are made to reinstated and has been offset against the profit and loss the profit and loss account so as to spread the costs of account reserves.
Goodwill previously taken to reserves is pensions at a substantially level percentage of payroll costs charged to the profit and loss account when the related over employees estimated service lives.
Contributions to business is sold.
defined contribution schemes are charged to the profit and loss account on a payment basis.
Other intangible fixed assets are valued at cost and amortised on a straight line basis over the expected useful Finance costs life of 15 years.
Finance costs incurred in arranging debt facilities are Tangible fixed assets capitalised and recognised in the profit and loss account over the term of the debt.
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less depreciation.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write-off the Taxation cost or valuation of each asset, on a straight line basis, over Corporation tax payable is provided on taxable profits at the its expected useful life as follows: current rate.
Credit is taken for Advance Corporation Tax Freehold land: nil.
written-off in previous years when it is recoverable against current corporation tax liabilities.
Freehold and long leasehold buildings: 1%2%.
Deferred taxation is provided on timing differences that result Short leasehold properties: over the unexpired period of in obligations at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a the lease.
right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to 1 Plant and equipment: 10%33 3%.
apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of Leases income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalised and different from those in which they are included in financial depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the statements.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not expected useful life of the asset.
The capital elements of discounted.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised future lease obligations are recorded as liabilities while the in full.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it interest elements are charged to the profit and loss account is considered more likely than not that the asset will be over the period of the lease to produce a constant rate of recovered.
No provision has been made for any potential charge on the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
taxation liability that would arise were the earnings of foreign Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss subsidiary entities to be remitted to the UK.
Investments Stocks a Subsidiary entities In the accounts of the Company Stocks including property are stated at the lower of cost investments are held at cost less any provision for and net realisable value.
The cost of work-in-progress impairment.
and finished goods includes an appropriate portion of b Other fixed asset investments These are shown at cost manufacturing overheads.
less any provision for impairment.
c Current asset investments These are shown at cost less amounts written off.
Income is recognised as it is earned.
