Explanatory notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting The notice of the Annual General Meeting of the amount of the auditors fees.
The Audit Committee Company to be held on Thursday, 19 January 2006 keeps under review the independence and objectivity of is set out on pages 74 to 77 of this document.
The the external auditors, further information on which can following notes provide an explanation as to why be found in the annual report and accounts.
After the resolutions set out in the notice are to be put to considering relevant information the Audit Committee shareholders.
recommended to the Board of directors the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP.
Resolutions 1 to 7 are ordinary resolutions.
These resolutions will be passed if more than 50% of the Resolution 6 Remuneration Report votes cast for or against are in favour.
The Act requires the Company to seek shareholder approval for the directors remuneration report at the Resolution 1 Laying of Accounts general meeting before which the Companys annual The Companies Act 1985 the Act requires that, for accounts are laid.
The directors remuneration report is each financial year, the directors lay the Companys included in the annual report and accounts.
If annual accounts, the directors report, the directors shareholders vote against the report the directors will remuneration report and the auditors report on the still be paid but the Remuneration Committee will annual accounts and the auditable part of the directors reconsider its policy.
remuneration report before a general meeting.
Resolution 7 Authority to the directors to allot Resolution 2 Declaration of a Final Dividend shares An interim dividend of 5.6 pence net has already been Under the Act the directors may only allot shares if paid in respect of the 2004 2005 financial year.
If passed, this resolution will directors are recommending a final dividend of 12.4 pence net per ordinary share of 5 pence, payable on authorise the directors to allot and issue new shares up 23 January 2006 to holders on the register as at to an aggregate nominal value of 5,764,488 up to 6.00 p. m. on 30 December 2005.
The final dividend will 115,289.779 new ordinary shares of 5 pence each, not be paid without shareholder approval.
which is equal to approximately one-third 33.33% of the issued share capital of the Company excluding Resolutions 3 and 4 Reappointment of Mr H V treasury shares as at 7 December 2005, being the latest Reid and Mr G W Harrison practicable date prior to the publication of the notice.
At The Companys articles of association the Articles the date of this notice the Company held no treasury require that any director who was not appointed or shares.
As at 7 December 2005, being the latest reappointed at either of the last two annual general practicable date prior to the publication of the notice, meetings before this meeting must retire, although they the Company had 349,505,390 shares in issue and held may offer themselves for reappointment.
Accordingly, Mr 3,601,462 treasury shares, which is equal to H V Reid and Mr G W Harrison are retiring and seeking approximately 1.04% of the issued share capital of the reappointment.
Biographical information for Mr H V Reid Company excluding treasury shares as at that date.
The and Mr G W Harrison and details of why the Board authority will expire 15 months after the date of passing believes they should be re-elected are included in the of the resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the directors report in the annual report and accounts.
Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2007.
Resolution 5 Auditors Passing this resolution will continue the directors The Act requires that auditors be appointed at each flexibility to act in the best interests of shareholders, when general meeting at which accounts are laid, to hold opportunities arise, by issuing new shares.
The directors office until the next such meeting.
The resolution also seeks authority for the directors to determine the currently have no intention of issuing new shares.
78 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2005 Explanatory notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting Resolutions 8, 9 and 10 are special resolutions.
Exchange plc for the five business days immediately These resolutions will be passed if not less than preceding the day on which the contract for purchase is made.
This authority will only be exercised if market 75% of the votes cast for and against are in favour.
conditions make it advantageous to do so.
Resolution 8 Disapplication of statutory preOn 22 November 2005 the date of the notice the emption rights Company announced its intention to commence a If the Company issues new shares for cash it must first rolling share buy-back programme.
The directors intend offer them to existing shareholders in proportion to their to use the authority granted pursuant to this resolution current holdings, in compliance with their statutory prein pursuance of the share buy-back programme.
If passed, this resolution will authorise details of the share buy-back programme are set out in the directors to modify these rights to deal with legal, the Chairmans Statement in the annual report and regulatory or practical problems that may arise on a accounts.
rights or other pre-emptive offer or issue.
The directors present intention is that shares purchased The resolution also seeks shareholder authority to issue pursuant to this authority to the extent statutory a limited number of shares for cash and or sell treasury requirements are met and provided they do not exceed shares without offering them to shareholders first.
The 10% of the Companys issued share capital will be held authority is for an aggregate nominal amount of up to in treasury for future cancellation, sale for cash, or 5% of the aggregate nominal value of the issued share provided Listing Rule requirements are met transfer to capital of the Company as at 7 December 2005, being an employee share plan, although they may be the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the cancelled immediately on repurchase in the light of notice up to 17,475,269 new ordinary shares of 5 pence circumstances at the time.
The effect of any cancellation each.
The authority will expire at the same time as the would be to reduce the number of shares in issue.
For authority to allot shares given pursuant to resolution 7. most purposes, while held in treasury shares are treated as if they have been cancelled for example, they carry The directors consider this authority necessary in order no voting rights and do not rank for dividends.
The to give them flexibility to deal with opportunities as directors will only make purchases under this authority they arise, subject to the restrictions contained in this after considering the effect on earnings per share and resolution.
the benefits for shareholders generally.
Resolution 9 Purchase of own shares by the As at 7 December 2005, being the latest practicable Company date prior to the publication of the notice, options were If passed this resolution will grant the Company outstanding over 5,226,740 ordinary shares of 5 pence authority for a period of up to 15 months after the date each in the Company representing approximately 1.51% of passing of the resolution to buy its own shares in the of the issued share capital of the Company at that date.
The resolution limits the number of shares that If the proposed market purchase authority were used in may be purchased to 14.99% of the Companys issued full, shares over which options were outstanding would, share capital excluding treasury shares as at as at 7 December 2005, being the latest practicable 7 December 2005, being the latest practicable date prior date prior to the publication of the notice, represent to the publication of the notice.
The minimum price approximately 1.78% of the Companys adjusted issued payable per share excluding expenses is 5 pence and share capital excluding treasury shares at that date.
the maximum price payable per share excluding expenses is an amount equal to 105% of the average of Resolution 10 Adoption by the Company of the the middle-market quotations for an ordinary share new articles of association according to the Daily Official List of London Stock To ensure that the Companys constitutional documents Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2005 79 Explanatory notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting comply with recent developments in company law and best practice and that the references in them remain current, the directors consider it necessary to update the Companys articles of association.
The existing articles of association were adopted on 22 January 2004 and have not been amended since that date.
The principal changes proposed to the Companys articles of association are to the provisions relating to the indemnification of directors and other officers but without substantively affecting the existing position in relation to its auditors following recent amendments to the Companies Act 1985.
If approved, the proposed changes would allow the Company to indemnify the directors or any director of an associated company in respect of proceedings brought by third parties, covering both legal costs and the financial costs of any adverse judgment.
This would not include the legal costs of the unsuccessful defence of criminal proceedings, fines imposed in criminal proceedings or penalties imposed by regulatory bodies such as the Financial Services Authority.
The Company would also be permitted to pay the directors defence costs as they are incurred, even if the action is brought by the Company itself.
If the directors defence is unsuccessful, the director will still be liable to pay any damages awarded and to repay defence costs except where the proceedings have been brought by a third party and the Company chooses to indemnify the director.
Indemnities granted to the auditors would be subject to the same restrictions as at present.
There would be no restrictions on any indemnity granted to other officers of the Company other than its directors or the directors of an associated company.
The proposed changes also amend and update the provisions dealing with treasury shares to clarify them in line with best practice.
A copy of the proposed Articles of Association incorporating these changes is available for inspection as stated in note 7 to the Notice of Meeting on page 77 of this document.
80 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2005 The Enterprise Inns Team Contents Financial Highlights 1 Directors and Advisers 2 Chairmans Statement 4 Chief Executives Review 5 Finance Directors Report 10 Directors Report 13 Corporate Responsibility 17 STATION INN, DERBY Corporate Governance 21 Morning Advertiser Responsible Farmers Arms Directors Remuneration Report 27 Retailing Awards FINALIST Group Profit and Loss Account 36 David Lalor, short-listed for the FARMERS ARMS, HESKIN, CHORLEY Group Statement of Total Recognised Gains And Losses 37 2005 Morning Advertiser Morning Advertiser Best Village Pub WINNER Note of Historical Cost Profits and Losses 37 Responsible Drinking Retailing Three generations of Malcolm Rothwells family have Group Balance Sheet 38 Award for his work and initiatives been involved at the Farmers Arms over a period of Balance Sheet 39 within Derbys pub industry, has 17 years, offering fine food, a wide selection of beers Left to right: David George, Finance Director: Group Statement of Cash Flows 40 been lessee at the Station Inn for Gordon Harrison, Operations Director: and eight letting bedrooms.
Their track record was Notes to the Accounts 41 the last 20 years.
His nomination Ted Tuppen, Chief Executive: recognised when they won the overall Village Pub Report of the Auditors 69 by the Derby Crime Reduction Simon Townsend, Customer Services Director: category in the Morning Advertisers Best Pub Five Year Record 71 Andrew Clifford, Strategic Planning and Investment Manager.
Partnership, Pubwatch and CAMRA Awards 2005.
Station Inn Analysis of Shareholders 72 recognised his responsible and Financial Calendar 72 proactive approach to licensed Shareholder Information 73 trade, both within his pub and Notice of Meeting 74 throughout the local community.
Explanatory notes to the Notice of AGM 78 During the year there were many examples of Enterprise licensees who were recognised for the exceptional skills they demonstrate and the quality The White Hart of the businesses they operate.
Here is WHITE HART, WINCHCOMBE just a sample of them: Winford Arms Morning Advertiser Best Pub WINNER The 16th century White Hart, run by Nicole and David Burr, was named WINFORD ARMS, BRISTOL as the Morning Advertisers Pub of the Year for 2005 due to the high Bristol Pub of the Year WINNER quality offering and sheer originality demonstrated at the Licensee Steve Gunters pub was selected from venues in and around Gloucestershire pub.
Also winners of the Innovation of the Year Award, Bristol as the locals favourite.
The pub, winner of the Bristol Evening the Burrs specialise in traditional Scandinavian food and sell a range of Post Pub of the Year Award for 2005, was chosen as it demonstrates Swedish goods, including antique furniture and textiles.
"all of the elements that are great about a pub: ""traditional hearty food, top drinks, comfort, friendliness and value for money""."
College Arms COLLEGE ARMS, LOWER QUINTON National Chef of the Year WINNER Steve Love, joint licensee and Fulham Mitre Chef Patron of the College Arms, reopened the 500-year FULHAM MITRE, LONDON old Lower Quinton pub recently Morning Advertiser Best with wife and partner Claire, Tenanted or Leased Pub WINNER following a substantial Louis Amatos pub was named as the best Tenanted or Leased refurbishment.
Steve, a former Pub in the UK in the Morning Advertisers Best Pub Awards Roux scholar, was named as the Alford Arms Vine Tree 2005.
The judges praised Louis for having the foresight to Craft Guild of Chefs National realise the potential of The Fulham Mitre and for turning his Chef of the Year 2004 2006.
VINE TREE, MONMOUTH ideas into reality... a gem of a pub.
ALFORD ARMS, HEMEL HEMPSTEAD Morning Advertiser Social Responsibility Award WINNER Publican Catering Pub of the Year WINNER Berni Miles, licensee at the Vine Tree and Monmouthshire Pubwatch Becky and David Salisbury, licensees at the Alford Arms for the last six years, chairman, collected the Morning Advertisers PubWatch Award for Social have developed a consistently high quality food offer, whilst maintaining the Responsibility at the 2005 Best Pub Awards, as well as winning Most Front cover pictures left to right Back cover pictures left to right values of a traditional pub.
They received The Publican Catering Pub of the Responsible Tenant or Licensee at the recent Responsible Drink Retailing Kings Head, Redditch Mumbai Bluu, Leamington Spa Year Award 2005, as well as being named Hertfordshire Dining Pub of the Year Industry Awards.
Both awards were made in recognition of his groups Navigation, Lapworth Horse and Jockey, Goole for the last three years in the Good Pub Guide.
tough stance and zero-tolerance approach to responsible drinks retailing.
Livesey Arms, Ludborough Fleur fide Lys, St. Albans Printed by Jones & Palmer Limited, Birmingham.
tel: 0121 236 9007 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report And Accounts 2005 Enterprise Inns plc 3 Monkspath Hall Road, Solihull, West Midlands, B90 4SJ Tel: 44 0 121 733 7700 Fax: 44 0 121 733 6447 www.
