Notice of Meeting The 2006 Annual General Meeting of Enterprise Inns SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following plc the Company will be held at the offices of resolutions which will be proposed as special the Company, 3 Monkspath Hall Road, Solihull, West Midlands, B90 4SJ at 11.00 a. m. on resolutions: 19 January 2006 for the following purposes: 8.
THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 7, the ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS directors be and are empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following securities as defined in section 94 2 of that Act for resolutions which will be proposed as ordinary cash pursuant to the general authority conferred on resolutions: them by resolution 7 and or to sell equity securities 1.
To receive the directors report and the audited held as treasury shares for cash pursuant to section accounts for the year ended 30 September 2005 and 162D of that Act, in each case as if section 89 1 of the auditors report on the accounts.
that Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, 2.
provided that this power shall be limited to: a any such allotment and or sale of equity 3.
To reappoint Mr H V Reid as a director.
securities in connection with an issue or offer by 4.
To reappoint Mr G W Harrison as a director.
way of rights or other pre-emptive issue or offer, open for acceptance for a period fixed by the 5.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors and to directors, to holders of ordinary shares other authorise the directors to fix the remuneration of the than the Company on the register on any record auditors.
date fixed by the directors in proportion as 6.
To approve the directors remuneration report for the nearly as may be to the respective number of year ended 30 September 2005. ordinary shares deemed to be held by them, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements 7.
THAT the directors be and are generally and as the directors may deem necessary or unconditionally authorised in substitution for all expedient in relation to fractional entitlements, subsisting authorities to the extent unused pursuant legal or practical problems arising in any to and in accordance with section 80 of the overseas territory, the requirements of any Companies Act 1985 to allot relevant securities as regulatory body or stock exchange or any other defined in that section up to an aggregate nominal matter whatsoever: and value of 5,764,488.
This authority shall expire, b any such allotment and or sale, otherwise than unless previously renewed, revoked or varied by the pursuant to sub-paragraph a above, of equity Company in general meeting, 15 months after the securities for cash having, in the case of relevant date of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at shares as defined in section 94 5 of that Act, the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the an aggregate nominal value, or, in the case of Company in 2007, except that the Company may at other equity securities, giving the right to any time before the expiry of this authority make subscribe for or convert into relevant shares any offer or agreement which would or might require having an aggregate nominal value, not relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry exceeding in aggregate the sum of 873,763. and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if the This authority shall expire, unless previously authority conferred by this resolution had not renewed, revoked or varied by the Company in expired.
general meeting, at such time as the general 74 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2005 Notice of Meeting authority conferred on the directors by resolution 7 10.
THAT the articles of association a copy of which is expires, except that the Company may at any time produced to the meeting and signed by the before such expiry make any offer or agreement chairman, for the purposes of identification, be adopted as the articles of association of the which would or might require equity securities to be allotted or equity securities held as treasury shares Company in substitution for and to the exclusion of the existing articles of association of the Company.
to be sold after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities and or sell equity securities The directors believe that the proposals in held as treasury shares in pursuance of such an offer resolutions 1 to 10 are in the best interests of or agreement as if the power conferred by this shareholders as a whole and they unanimously resolution had not expired.
recommend that you vote in favour of all the 9.
THAT the Company be and is generally and resolutions.
unconditionally authorised to make market purchases as defined in section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of its ordinary shares of On behalf of the Board Registered office: 5 pence each provided that: 3 Monkspath Hall Road D C George Solihull a the maximum number of ordinary shares of Company Secretary West Midlands, B90 4SJ 5 pence each which may be acquired is 22 November 2005 Registered in 51,850,998: England and Wales b the minimum price per share which may be paid No.
2562808 for any such share excluding expenses is 5 pence: and c the maximum price per share which may be paid for any such ordinary share of 5 pence excluding expenses is an amount equal to 105 per cent of Notes the average of the middle-market quotations for an ordinary share according to the Daily Official 1.
A shareholder of the Company who is entitled to List of London Stock Exchange plc for the five attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting may business days immediately preceding the day on appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, which the contract to purchase is made.
A proxy does not need to be a shareholder of the Company.
This authority shall expire, unless previously renewed, revoked or varied by the Company in 2.
A form of proxy for use in connection with the general meeting, 15 months after the date of the Annual General Meeting is enclosed with the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the document of which this notice forms part.
If you do conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the not have a form of proxy and believe that you should, Company in 2007, except that the Company may, at please contact the Companys registrars, any time before the expiry of this authority, enter Computershare Investor Services PLC, on 0870 703 into a contract to purchase ordinary shares which 6297 or at Computershare Investor Services PLC, would or might be executed wholly or partly after P. O.
Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, such expiry and purchase ordinary shares in BS99 7NH.
Completion and return of a form of proxy accordance with such contract as if the authority will not preclude a shareholder from attending and conferred by this resolution had not expired.
voting at the Annual General Meeting.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2005 75 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2003 75 Notice of Meeting 3.
To appoint a proxy or proxies shareholders must Applications Host from which the Companys agent complete: a a form of proxy, sign it and return it, is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST together with the power of attorney or other in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time authority if any under which it is signed, or a any change of instructions to proxies appointed notarially certified copy of such authority, to the through CREST should be communicated to the Companys registrars, Computershare Investor appointee through other means.
Services PLC, PO Box 1075, The Pavilions, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 3FA: or b a CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Proxy Instruction as set out in paragraph 4 below : CRESTCo Limited does not make available special or c an online proxy appointment at procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
com uk voting etp you will Normal system timings and limitations will therefore need your unique PIN and Shareholder Reference apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Number printed on your personalised Form of Proxy, Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST in each case so that it is received no later than member concerned to take or, if the CREST member 11.00 a. m. on 17 January 2006. is a CREST personal member or sponsored member 4.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or or has appointed any voting service provider s, to proxies through the CREST electronic proxy procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service appointment service may do so for the Annual provider s take s such action as is necessary to General Meeting and any adjournment s of the ensure that a message is transmitted by means of meeting by using the procedures described in the the CREST system by any particular time.
CREST Personal Members or other connection, CREST members and, where applicable, CREST sponsored members and those CREST their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are members who have appointed any voting service referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST provider s should refer to their CREST sponsor or Manual concerning practical limitations of the voting service provider s, who will be able to take CREST system and timings.
the appropriate action on their behalf.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made Instruction in the circumstances set out in using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must Regulations 2001. be properly authenticated in accordance with 5.
The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the CRESTCo Limiteds specifications and must contain Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies the information required for such instructions, as that only those shareholders registered on the described in the CREST Manual.
The message, Companys share register no later than 6.00 p. m. on regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment 17 January 2006 shall be entitled to attend the of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given Annual General Meeting and vote in respect of the to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be number of shares registered in their names at that valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the time.
Changes to entries on the share register after Companys agent ID 3RA50 by the latest time s for 6.00 p. m. on 17 January 2006 shall be disregarded receipt of proxy appointments set out in paragraph 3 in determining the rights of any person to attend or above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be vote at the Annual General Meeting.
taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST 76 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2005 Notice of Meeting 6.
Copies of the directors service contracts, the directors remuneration report, the biographical information of the directors seeking reappointment and the register of directors interests are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours on any weekday excluding Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays until the end of the Annual General Meeting and will also be available for inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes before and during the Annual General Meeting.
Copies of the Companys existing articles of association and the articles of association proposed to be adopted pursuant to resolution 10 are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and will also be available for inspection at the offices of CMS Cameron McKenna LLP, Mitre House, 160 Aldersgate Street, London EC1A 4DD, in each case during normal business hours on any weekday excluding Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays until the end of the Annual General Meeting.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your ordinary shares in Enterprise Inns plc, you should immediately send this document, together with the accompanying form of proxy, to the purchaser or transferee or to the stockbroker, bank or other person through whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2005 77
