43 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Accounting policies a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Policies UK GAAP : these are presented on pages 74 to 77.
On 6 June 2005 the Filtrona business was demerged from Bunzl plc Bunzl or former parent company and the ordinary shares of Filtrona plc Filtrona or the Company were listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Prior to the demerger the Filtrona businesses were reorganised under Filtrona International Limited under the common control of Bunzl outside the scope of IFRS 3: Business combinations IFRS 3 and have been presented as if Filtrona had always existed independently for the purposes of the comparatives.
The demerger was effected by the payment of a dividend in specie by Bunzl and has been accounted for as if it were a reverse acquisition.
The financial statements are prepared on a historical cost basis except for derivative financial instruments which are stated at fair value.
This is Filtronas first annual report and therefore the adoption of IFRS does not impact on any previously reported financial position.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and future periods if relevant.
The preparation of financial statements that conform with IFRS requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expense during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
As part of the demerger process, Listing Particulars were issued which included an Accountants Report presenting financial information for the Filtrona businesses for the year ended 31 December 2004 prepared as if Filtrona had always existed independently.
This information has been used as the basis of the comparative information in this report, with adjustments made for pension accounting as required by IAS 19 revised : Employee benefits IAS 19 revised.
The accounting policies used in the preparation of these financial statements are detailed below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all periods presented except for those relating to the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
b International Financial Reporting Standards I IFRS 1 IFRS 1: First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 1 permits certain exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS in the transition period.
Filtrona has taken the following exemptions: i Business combinations Filtrona has chosen not to retrospectively apply IFRS 3 to business combinations that occurred before the date of transition to IFRS.
ii Financial instruments Filtrona, in its comparative information for the period ended 31 December 2004, has taken advantage of the exemption not to present financial information compliant with IAS 32: Financial instruments: disclosure and presentation IAS 32 and IAS 39: Financial instruments: recognition and measurement IAS 39.
Consequently, the restatement of the opening consolidated balance sheet at 1 January 2004, the results for the year ended 31 December 2004 and the consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2004 have been prepared using the accounting policies for financial instruments previously adopted under UK GAAP.
The result of the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 on 1 January 2005 was the recognition of a derivative asset of 0.1m.
iii Cumulative translation differences Filtrona has adopted the exemption in IFRS 1 allowing cumulative translation differences to be reset to zero at the transition date.
iv Fair value or revaluation at deemed cost Filtrona has adopted the exemption to restate revalued items of property, plant and equipment as being held at deemed cost at the date of transition.
44 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Accounting policies b International Financial Reporting Standards continued Filtrona has elected not to adopt the following exemption: i Share-based payments Filtrona has not adopted the exemption to apply IFRS 2: Share-based payments IFRS 2 only to awards made after 7 November 2002.
Instead a full retrospective approach has been followed on all awards granted but not fully vested at the date of transition.
II Impairment Goodwill was tested for impairment at 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, even though no indication of impairment existed.
c Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by Filtrona.
Control exists when Filtrona has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity to obtain economic benefit from its activities.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Joint ventures Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
A joint venture is an entity in which Filtrona has a long-term interest and exercises joint control.
Under the equity method, Filtronas share of the aggregate assets and liabilities is included in the balance sheet and Filtronas share of operating profit, finance and income tax expense of the joint venture is included in the income statement.
iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expense arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the financial statements.
d Foreign currency i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the exchange rate ruling at that date and recognised in the income statement unless hedging criteria apply.
ii Financial statements of foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including intangible assets arising on consolidation, are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated at average exchange rates.
Exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in the translation reserve.
iii Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences since 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, and related hedges are taken to the translation reserve and released to the income statement upon disposal.
Differences arising prior to 1 January 2004 are included in retained earnings.
e Financial instruments Filtrona has taken the exemption granted by IFRS 1 not to apply IAS 32 and IAS 39 to the comparative figures in the 2005 financial statements.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004 have been prepared using the accounting policies previously applied under UK GAAP for financial instruments, whereby the fair values of financial instruments were not recognised.
The accounting policies described here for financial instruments are applicable from 1 January 2005.
Under IAS 39, financial instruments are measured initially at fair value.
The subsequent measurement depends on the classification of the financial instrument.
Loans and receivables and other financial liabilities excluding derivatives are held at amortised cost, unless they are included in a hedge accounting relationship.
Filtrona uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, Filtrona does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
45 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com e Financial instruments continued i Cash flow hedges Where a derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge, the change in fair value is recognised in equity, to the extent that it is effective and the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Where the underlying transaction results in a financial asset, accumulated gains and losses are recognised in the income statement in the same period as the hedged item.
Where the hedged item results in a non-financial asset the accumulated gains and losses previously recognised in equity are included in the initial carrying value of the asset.
In 2004 cash flow hedges were disclosed but not recognised in the financial statements.
ii Fair value hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is used to hedge the foreign exchange exposure of a monetary asset or liability, no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement.
In 2004 financial assets and liabilities, where hedged, were valued using the contracted rate.
iii Hedges of net investment in foreign operations The gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is deemed effective is recognised in equity.
Any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
f Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Previously revalued properties were treated as being held at deemed cost upon transition to IFRS.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment or other assets have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment and other assets are periodically reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
g Depreciation Property, plant and equipment are depreciated over their estimated remaining useful lives at the following annual rates applied to book value: Freehold land Not depreciated Buildings 2% or life of lease if shorter Plant and machinery 720% Fixtures, fittings and equipment 1033% The assets useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
h Leases Where Filtrona has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset subject to a lease, the lease is treated as a finance lease.
All other leases are treated as operating leases and the rentals expensed to the income statement on a straight line basis.
Lease incentives are amortised in the income statement over the life of the lease.
i Intangible assets i Goodwill Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment losses.
Acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method.
For acquisitions that have occurred since 1 January 2004 goodwill represents the difference between the cost and fair value of identifiable assets acquired.
For acquisitions made before 1 January 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount previously recorded under UK GAAP.
ii Research and development Research costs are expensed to the income statement in the year in which they are incurred.
Development costs relating to new products are capitalised if the new product is technically and commercially feasible.
Other development costs are recognised in the income statement and expensed as incurred.
46 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Accounting policies i Intangible assets continued iii Customer lists Customer lists are identified on acquisition of businesses and valued using discounted cash flows based on historic customer attrition rates.
Amortisation is expensed in the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful economic life a period of up to 25 years.
j Impairment All assets, except inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed annually to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If an indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, being the greater of value in use and net selling price, and is recognised in the income statement.
Value in use is estimated future cash flows discounted using a pre-tax discount rate.
k Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost on a first in, first out basis and net realisable value.
For work-in-progress and finished goods, cost includes an appropriate proportion of labour and overheads.
l Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and fixed term investments whose maturities are three months or less from the date of acquisition.
Bank overdrafts repayable on demand and that form an integral part of Filtronas cash management are included as part of cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows.
m Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are stated at cost less impairment losses.
n Income tax Filtronas income tax expense in 2004 benefited from its membership of Bunzl tax groups in different tax jurisdictions.
In 2005, the income tax expense incurred by Filtrona only reflects reliefs and charges relevant to Filtrona tax groups.
Income tax in the income statement comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date and any adjustment to tax payable in prior years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences arising between the tax bases and the carrying amounts in the financial statements.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset liability is settled.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
o Revenue Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer.
No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration due, associated expenses or the possible return of goods.
47 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com p Interest income and expense Interest income and expense is recognised in the income statement as it accrues.
Funding balances between Filtrona and Bunzl are described as former parent company financing within non-current liabilities, reflecting the debt transferred from Bunzl to Filtrona on demerger.
Interest on the former parent company financing is calculated at an interest rate reflecting the effective finance expense that Bunzl incurred during the year ended 31 December 2004.
Filtronas finance expense shown in these financial statements reflects Filtronas actual interest expense for the year ended 31 December 2005 including interest paid to Bunzl up to the date of demerger.
q Segment reporting A segment is a distinguishable component of Filtrona that is engaged in providing products business segment, or in providing products within a particular economic environment geographical segment, which is subject to risks and rewards that are different from those of other segments.
For operational and financial reporting purposes, Filtrona identifies two business segments which are characterised by shared technology and raw material inputs and are subject to risks and rewards that are different from each other.
r Pensions i Defined contribution schemes Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are expensed to the income statement as incurred.
ii Defined benefit schemes The significant pension schemes in Europe and the US have been accounted for on a defined benefit basis under IAS 19 revised.
Under IAS 19 revised Filtrona has to account for defined benefit pension charges up to the date of demerger on a defined contribution basis and on a defined benefit basis thereafter.
Accordingly Filtrona has recognised the retirement benefit obligation of 34.7m at demerger in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
Actuarial gains and losses that have arisen subsequently were recognised in full in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
The net obligations in respect of defined benefit pension schemes are calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods: that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any scheme assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of Filtronas obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The amounts charged to operating profit are the current service cost, past service cost and gains and losses on settlement and curtailments.
The expected increase in the present value of scheme liabilities is included within finance expense and the expected return on scheme assets is included within finance income.
s Share-based payments Filtrona operates equity settled, share-based compensation plans.
A charge is made in the income statement based on the fair value of options using the Black-Scholes model with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the expected period between grant and exercise of the options.
The amount recognised as an expense will be adjusted to reflect the actual number of shares that vest.
The expense for share-based payments prior to demerger was the charge allocated by Filtronas former parent company based on the participation of Filtrona employees in schemes that it operated.
t Provisions A provision is recognised when there is a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that a measurable outflow of economic resources will be required to settle the obligation.
u Net debt Net debt is defined as cash and cash equivalents, net of interest bearing loans and borrowings.
v Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are declared.
