Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the ftieth annual general meeting of the company will be held at the Marriott Hollins Hall Hotel, Hollins Hill, Baildon, Shipley, West Yorkshire, BD17 7QW on Monday 4 July 2005 at 2.00 p. m. for the following purposes: Ordinary business 1.
To receive and adopt the statement of accounts of the company for the year ended 31 March 2005together with the directors and auditors reports thereon.
To receive and adopt the board report on directors remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2005.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2005.
To re-elect Mr D A Johnson as a director.
To re-elect Dr I J Bolton as a director.
To elect Mr D B Dutton as a director.
To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to the company for the period to the conclusion of the next annual general meeting and to authorise the directors to x their remuneration.
To consider and, if thought t, to pass the following as an ordinary resolution: That pursuant to S. 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all the powers of the company to allot Relevant Securities within the meaning of S. 80 of the said Act in respect of and up to an aggregate nominal amount of 506,021 representing 11.92% of the issued ordinary share capital of the company at 26 May 2005until the earlier of the date and time of the next annual general meeting or 15 months from the date of the passing of this resolution: and so that the company may before that date and time make an offer or agreement which would or might require Relevant Securities to be allotted after such time and the directors may allot Relevant Securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
This resolution asks shareholders to renew the directors general authority to allot unissued shares, should it be desirable to do so.
In accordance with relevant guidelines this authority is to be limited to the maximum nominal amount of 506,021 representing the companys authorised but unissued share capital as at 26 May 2005.
The company holds no treasury shares within the meaning of S. 162A of the said Act as at 26 May 2005.
The directors have no present plans to issue shares using this authority.
To consider and, if thought t, to pass the following as a special resolution: That, pursuant to S. 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the directors be and are hereby authorised: i subject to the passing of the previous resolution, to allot Equity Securities within the meaning of S. 94 of the said Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by the previous resolution: and ii to sell Equity Securities within the meaning of S. 94 of the said Act for cash which before the sale were held by the company as treasury shares within the meaning of S. 162A of the said Act as if sub-section 1 of S. 89 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment PROVIDED that this power shall be limited: a to the allotment or sale of Equity Securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders where the Equity Securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or any legal or practical problems under the laws of any territory, or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange, and or b to the allotment or sale otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above of Equity Securities in respect of and up to an aggregate nominal amount of 212,198 representing 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the company at 26 May 2005 and shall expire on the earlier of the date and time of the next annual general meeting or 15 months from the date of the passing of this resolution: save that the company may before that date and time make an offer or agreement which would or might require Equity Securities to be allotted or sold after such time and in such event the directors may allot or sell Equity Securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
If the directors wish to allot unissued shares or sell shares from treasury for cash, the Companies Act 1985 requires that these shares are offered first to shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
This is known as shareholders pre-emption rights.
There may be occasions however when, in order to act in the best 48 interest of the company, the directors need the exibility to finance business opportunities as they arise.
Therefore this resolution asks shareholders to renew the directors authority to issue or sell from treasury a limited number of shares for cash, up to a nominal amount of 212,198 equivalent to 5% of the companys issued share capital at 26 May 2005, or pursuant to a rights issue, without the shares first being offered to shareholders.
Resolution 9 will be proposed as a special resolution.
The authority contained in Resolution 9, will expire on the earlier date of the next annual general meeting or 15 months after passing of such resolution.
To consider and, if thought t, to pass the following as a special resolution: That, in accordance with Regulation 52 of the Articles of Association, a general authority is hereby given for the purposes of S. 166 of the Companies Act 1985 for one or more market purchases as dened in S. 163 of the said Act by the company of any of its own shares subject to the following restrictions but otherwise unconditionally: 1.
The maximum aggregate number of shares to be so acquired shall not exceed 8,487,956 ordinary shares of 5p each with a nominal value of 424,397 representing 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the company at 26 May 2005.
Shares may only be purchased at a price per share exclusive of expenses no higher than 5% above the average of the middle market quotations of the ordinary shares in the capital of the company, as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial list, for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase but the minimum price that may be paid for such shares shall be the nominal value of 5p per share exclusive of expenses.
Unless previously renewed, varied, or revoked, this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the company, but the company may before such expiry make contracts for such purposes which would or might be executed wholly or partly after such expiry, and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract or contracts.
Under the terms of the Companies Act 1985 and its Articles of Association, the company has power to purchase its own shares provided that this power has first been sanctioned by shareholders.
The directors consider that in certain circumstances it may be beneficial for the company to purchase its own shares, for example, to return surplus cash to shareholders and to enhance earnings per share and or net assets per share.
This resolution asks shareholders to authorise the company to make purchases up to 8,487,956 ordinary shares representing 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the company as at 26 May 2005 at a minimum price of 5p per share and a maximum price of 5% above the average price of the middle market quotations of the ordinary shares in the capital of the company as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the 5 business days prior to the purchase.
The total number of shares that may be issued on the exercise of outstanding options as at 26 May 2005 was 381,084 which represents approximately 0.45% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares at that date.
If the company were to purchase shares up to the maximum permitted by this resolution, the proportion of shares subject to outstanding options would represent approximately 0.50% of the resultant issued share capital excluding treasury shares.
The purchase price for the company to purchase its own shares may only be satisfied out of distributable reserves, or the proceeds of a new issue of shares made for the purpose.
Purchases will be made on the London Stock Exchange, and daily notication of any purchases will be made to a Regulatory Information Service.
Full details of purchases made during the year will also appear in the companys annual report published in 2006.
The fact that the directors are seeking this authority should not be taken as an indication that the company will purchase its own shares at any particular price or indeed at all and the directors would only consider making purchases if they believed that such purchases would be in the best interests of the shareholders generally, having regard to the effect on earnings per share.
The directors have no immediate intention to exercise the proposed authority to purchase shares.
The Companies Act 1985 permits companies to hold any shares acquired by way of market purchases in treasury rather than having to cancel them.
The company would consider holding any of its own shares purchased under the authority granted by Resolution 10 as treasury shares within the meaning of S. 162A of the said Act.
This would give the company the ability to re-issue treasury shares as and when required quickly and cost effectively and would provide the company with additional exibility in the management of its capital base.
No dividends will be paid on shares while held in treasury and no voting rights will attach to those shares.
Resolution 10 will be proposed as a special resolution.
The authority contained in Resolution 10 will expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the next annual general meeting or 15 months after the passing of such resolution.
By order of the board I J Bolton Secretary 26 May 2005 www.
co. uk 49 Notes a A member entitled to attend and vote at the above meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote in his place.
A proxy need not also be a member.
Completion and return of a Form of Proxy will not preclude a member from attending and voting at the meeting should he she so decide.
b To be valid at the meeting, the enclosed Form of Proxy and the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed, or notarially certied copy of such power or authority, must be deposited at the ofces of Lloyds TSR Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6ZL not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or any adjourned meeting.
c Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection at the companys registered ofce during normal business hours of any weekday public holidays excluded : i the directors service contracts: ii the register of directors interested in the share capital of the company.
Such documents will also be available for inspection at the place of the annual general meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting as well as during the meeting.
d Only those member registered in the Register of Members of the company 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting shall be entitled to attend and vote at the annual general meeting.
CREST transactions after that time will not affect entitlements to attend and vote at the meeting and no transfers of securities in certicated form will be registered from that time until the close of the meeting.
e Electronic proxy appointment through CREST CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the annual general meeting to be held on 4 July 2005 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless or whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001.
