Accounting Policies The principal accounting policies of the group are as follows: Basis of accounting The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, modied to include the revaluation of certain xed asset investments, and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently throughout the year and the prior year.
The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the parent and all subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 March.
The company has taken advantage of Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 and has not presented its own profit and loss account.
Turnover Turnover comprises the invoiced value of goods and services exclusive of VAT and other sales taxes.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction or at the related forward contract rate where appropriate.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and the financial statements of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated at the rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the opening net investment in overseas subsidiary undertakings at the year-end rate are taken directly to reserves.
All other exchange differences are dealt with in the profit and loss account.
Pension costs Pension costs are charged to the profit and loss account on a systematic basis over the period during which the group derives benefit from the employees services in accordance with SSAP24 and based upon the advice of a qualied actuary.
Fixed assets and depreciation Tangible xed assets are stated at cost, net of depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated to write off all tangible xed assets on a straight line basis, except for land, over their estimated useful lives using the following rates: Freehold buildings: 2%, Plant and equipment: 5% 33%, Long leasehold buildings: 2%, Motor vehicles: 25%, Short leasehold buildings: Period of the lease.
Fixed asset investments Fixed asset investments are stated at valuation, less provision for impairment where appropriate.
In the company Balance sheet, for investments in subsidiaries acquired for consideration including the issue of shares qualifying for merger relief, cost is measured by reference to the nominal value only of the shares issued.
The investment is then revalued to reect the fair value of the consideration, the gain being taken to the revaluation reserve.
Investments are revalued every year to a directors valuation, with the surplus or deficit on book value being transferred to the revaluation reserve, except that a deficit in excess of any previously recognised surplus relating to the same investment is charged to the profit and loss account.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses, representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration over that of the separable net assets acquired, is capitalised and written off over its useful economic life which does not exceed twenty years.
As a matter of accounting policy goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 31 March 1998 was written off against reserves and, as permitted by FRS10, has not been reinstated on the balance sheet.
On disposal of a subsidiary or business acquired before 31 March 1998 the goodwill previously written off will be included in determining the profit or loss on disposal.
Stocks Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Provision is made for obsolete and slow moving stock.
Leases Assets which have been funded through finance leases are capitalised and the resulting lease obligations are included in creditors.
The rentals payable are apportioned between interest, which is charged to the profit and loss account so as to produce a constant periodic rate of charge on the outstanding balance, and capital, which reduces the outstanding obligations.
Rentals under operating leases are written off as incurred.
Taxation Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis, at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse.
Both current and deferred tax are measured using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised on a non-discounted basis in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Catalogue and customer recruitment costs The costs of sales catalogues and recruitment of Home Shopping customers are written off as incurred.
