NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 41. Dividend On 20th March 2006, the Board agreed to propose a final dividend of 28.7p for the year ended 31st December 2005.
A resolution to this effect will be put to the Annual General Meeting of the Shareholders on 3rd May 2006.
The DTZ Valuation dated 31st August 2005 includes the terms Market Value and Calculation of Worth which are defined in The Appraisal and Valuation Manual issued by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors the Red Book as: Market Value The estimated amount for which a property should exchange on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms-length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
Calculation of Worth Worth or Investment Value is the value of property to a particular owner, investor, or a class of investors, for identified investment objectives.
This subjective concept relates specific property to a specified investor, group of investors or an entity with identifiable investment objectives and or criteria.
In this context investment includes the benefits of owner occupation.
The property development assets referred to in the Interim Statement, which DTZ have valued, include the undernoted assets: Land at the Port of Leith covered by the Groups Leith Docks Development Framework proposals: The development sites called Britannia Quay, Waterfront Plaza, Granton Harbour, Western Harbour including the Asda site all of which are in Leith: Development sites at Grangemouth, Dundee, Burntisland and Methil: and The Ocean Terminal Shopping Centre.
The Port Operations Property or assets utilised in the Ports business was also valued in accordance with the Red Book at Market Value.
DTZ have valued the Scottish Ports property at Grangemouth, Dundee and Rosyth as a portfolio.
The property at Tilbury has been valued separately.
Leith is included within property development assets.
In accordance with the Red Book, in determining Market Value, DTZ have had regard to the trading potential of the property assets.
Value has therefore been determined by assessing the future earnings attributable to the above assets.
In order to assist the valuation exercise, these future earnings have been allocated into Low Risk, Medium Risk and Higher Risk portions based upon an analysis of individual contracts between: Contracted guaranteed Secure Other It should be noted that in accordance with the Red Book Scottish Ports properties have been valued on the basis that the rights to marine operations income consequent to the Competent Harbour Authority status would be sold as a continuing part of the overall Scottish Ports business.
