APPENDIX II PROPOSED LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 2006 RESOLUTION 12 Introduction The Remuneration Committee has undertaken a review of the Companys executive remuneration strategy in light of both its future business plans, and in particular the evolution of the Companys strategy for its property assets, and continuing developments in UK remuneration practice.
This review process has been supported by independent external advice provided by Watson Wyatt.
The Companys current Long-Term Incentive Plan the 2002 LTIP provides Executive Directors and Senior Managers with the opportunity to receive shares to a value of up to 75% of annual salary.
The number of shares which vest is calculated by reference to Total Shareholder Return relative to 66 comparative companies.
Following recommendations from the Remuneration Committee the Board believes that the current comparator group is not providing a good test of management performance in relation to the two distinct businesses which form the Company.
Furthermore, the Board considers that the maximum award of 75% of base salary is not in line with market practice, particularly given that base salaries for Executive Directors are set at or around the median.
The Board, on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee, considers that it is in the best interests of shareholders to adopt a new long-term incentive plan the 2006 LTIP.
The Company has consulted with its major shareholders and the Association of British Insurers in relation to the proposals.
The 2006 LTIP is intended to apply to the Executive Directors and Senior Managers of the Company in the first instance, although the Remuneration Committee will have the discretion to extend participation to a small number of selected high performing, high potential employees.
In general, other than in relation to the performance criteria and maximum award the 2006 LTIP is modelled on the 2002 LTIP and has been updated in line with best practice guidelines.
Performance will be measured over a three year period using two key performance metrics: growth over the vesting period in underlying port operating profit and property net asset value both as further set out opposite.
The percentage award dependent on the achievement of performance under each metric will vary for each participant depending on the participants area of responsibility.
In addition to the two key metrics, vesting will only occur if the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the financial performance of the Company has shown a sustained improvement since the start of the performance period.
If the 2006 LTIP is approved by shareholders no further awards will be made under the 2002 LTIP.
Supervision The Remuneration Committee will supervise the operation of the 2006 LTIP.
In particular, the Remuneration Committee will determine the level of award for the Executive Directors.
For participants below Executive Director level, the Committee will approve the participants and their level of awards proposed by the CEO.
Eligibility Executive Directors and employees of the Company are eligible to participate in the 2006 LTIP at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Unless the Remuneration Committee considers it appropriate a participant must not be within one year of his retirement age at the time the award is granted.
Grant of Awards Awards will be granted by the Remuneration Committee as an option to acquire at nil cost ordinary shares in the Company, subject to performance criteria being met over the specified performance period.
Awards granted under the 2006 LTIP are not transferable and may only vest in the persons to whom they were granted.
No payment is required for the grant of an award.
Benefits under the 2006 LTIP are not pensionable.
Awards may only be made during the period of 42 days following approval of the 2006 LTIP by the shareholders or the announcement of the Companys interim or final financial results for any period, unless the Remuneration Committee considers that there are exceptional circumstances which justify the making of awards at any other time and the Company is not otherwise prohibited from making an award.
Exercise and lapse of awards An award will normally vest after the end of the relevant performance period if and to the extent that performance conditions have been satisfied over that period.
Performance periods will generally be three successive financial years.
Awards will lapse to the extent not vested after expiry of the performance period.
An award will lapse if the participant ceases to be employed by the Company prior to the end of the performance period.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion, in exceptional circumstances only, to decide that upon cessation of employment an award will not lapse but remain in place and or vest early on a proportionate basis by reference to time elapsed and performance to date.
In the event of a change of control of the shareholding of the Company a winding up or on the occurrence of exceptional circumstances in relation to the Group or a Participant which the Remuneration Committee considers makes it appropriate for vesting any award shares, awards will vest on a proportionate basis by reference to time elapsed and performance to date.
If there is a capitalisation issue, rights issue, consolidation, sub-division or other variation in the share capital of the Company the number of shares subject to awards will be adjusted in such manner as the auditors of the Company confirm to be reasonable.
108 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 All awards will be subject to demanding performance conditions relating to underlying port profits Port Profits Test and increase in property net asset value NAV Test.
The Remuneration Committee will establish for each participant the percentage of award which should be dependent on achievement of performance under each metric depending on that participants area of responsibility.
The Port Profits Test will measure the growth in underlying profits before interest and tax in respect of the Groups port operations over the performance period as extracted from the segmental analysis contained in the Companys annual report and accounts adjusted to exclude any profit or loss relating to the Companys investment properties.
A threshold level of performance and stretch target will be set by the Remuneration Committee on an annual basis having regard to internal company projections and budget, analyst expectations and the recent historical performance of the Company and its competitors.
Stretch performance will be set at a level that represents genuinely superior performance significantly in excess of the challenging level of performance required to meet the threshold level.
No award shares subject to this test will vest if the threshold level of performance is not achieved at the end of the performance period.
The maximum number of award shares will vest if the stretch target is achieved at the end of the performance period.
Award shares will vest on a straight line basis for performance between the threshold level and the stretch target.
For awards granted in 2006 the average annual growth rate required over the performance period for vesting to commence will be 3% and the stretch target will be 8%.
The NAV Test will measure the growth in net asset value of the investment property and property development both Group and joint ventures segment over the performance period, measured on a like for like basis.
The net asset value of the investment property and property development as set out in the segmental analysis in the Companys annual report and accounts as adjusted to reflect market value as determined by the Companys property valuation agents and as further adjusted as the Committee deems appropriate to account for any acquisitions, disposals, reclassifications and intragroup transfers or otherwise to ensure that the increase in net asset value is measured on a consistent basis and properly reflects creation of value.
A threshold level of performance will be set.
The maximum award will vest if the stretch target is achieved at the end of the performance period.
For awards granted in 2006 the average annual growth rate required over the performance period for vesting to commence will be 4% and the stretch target will be 9%.
Irrespective of whether targets have been met in respect of the Port Profits Test and or the NAV Test, no vesting shall occur unless the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the financial performance of the Company has shown a sustained improvement since the start of the performance period.
In determining whether the Company has shown a sustained improvement in financial performance, the Committee will, in addition to the two primary metrics noted above, consider the total return delivered to shareholders and the economic value added.
These measures will be considered in light of historical experience and the performance of relevant peer companies and the performance of relevant indices.
Performance conditions applying to new awards will be reviewed each year to ensure that they remain robust, challenging and clearly linked to the creation of shareholder value.
Individual limit Under the 2006 LTIP no award will exceed the number of shares represented by the participants basic annual salary at the award date divided by the market value of shares averaged over the three business days prior to the start of performance period.
Dividends Participants will be entitled to a cash sum on exercise representing the aggregate amount of dividends plus any associated tax credit paid on vested award shares since the date the award was granted.
The Company shall have discretion to transfer a number of shares in lieu of the cash sum using the market value of the shares on the date of exercise in order to determine the number of shares.
Administration All shares allocated under the 2006 LTIP will rank pari passu with all other ordinary shares of the Company for the time being in issue save as regards any rights arising by reference to a record date arising prior to the date of issue.
On any variation of the ordinary share capital of the Company the number of the shares subject to awards shall be adjusted in such a manner as the Remuneration Committee determines to be fair and reasonable.
The 2006 LTIP will be administered by the Remuneration Committee.
Amendments to the rules may be made at its discretion, however no amendment may be made to the advantage of participants or employees to rules relating to eligibility for participation of the 2006 LTIP, the limitations on the number of shares subject to the awards under 2006 LTIP, the maximum entitlement for any participant or the basis for determining entitlement to and adjustments of awards in the event of a capitalisation issue, rights issue or open offer, subdivision or consolidation of shares or reduction of capital or any other variation of capital without prior shareholders approval.
However minor amendments may be made to benefit the administration of the 2006 LTIP or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for the Company or participants in the 2006 LTIP.
Source of Shares An award may be satisfied either by the transfer to the participant of existing shares in the Company purchased on the market or by the issue of new shares.
The 2006 LTIP permits the Company to use the Forth Ports PLC Employee Trust for the purpose of holding the shares pending the transfer to participants.
Further details of that Trust are given overleaf.
However, where awards are satisfied through the issue of new shares to the Trustee for the purpose of satisfying awards under the 2006 LTIP, the use of new shares will be subject to limiting the percentage of the Companys issued share capital utilised for the purposes of the 2006 LTIP or in respect of the granting of share options in any ten year period to 10 per cent.
Within this overall limit of 10 per cent, new shares issued in respect of the granting of share options other than savings-related share options will be limited to 5 per cent.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 109 APPENDIX II CONTINUED Cost The expected accounting cost of the 2006 LTIP will be approximately 0.5m per annum for the three Executive Directors and 0.9m for the Senior Management population as a whole.
Based on the current share price, the number of new shares required for the Senior Management population is approximately 90,000 shares per annum.
If new shares were used to satisfy awards, this would represent an annual dilution of approximately 0.2%.
Trust It is intended that the transfer of shares to satisfy awards under the 2006 LTIP will be made by the Trustee of the Forth Ports PLC Employee Trust the Trust.
The Trust was established by trust deed dated 26th February 1992 by the Company for the benefit of employees.
The Trust was set up shortly prior to flotation of the Company.
In order to ensure that it has sufficient Ordinary Shares to satisfy any awards that are made under the 2006 LTIP the Trustee will: a acquire shares on the market: and or b subscribe for new shares: and or c be granted an option by the Company to acquire shares at the end of the relevant performance period.
It is intended that, where practicable, the Trustee will acquire shares on the market.
In each case the acquisition of such shares will be funded by a gift made to the Trustee by the Company which employs the participant or by a loan to the Trustee by the Company.
Additional features of the Trust are as follows: a The beneficiaries of the Trust the Beneficiaries are the employees, spouses of employees and children and remoter issue of employees from time to time of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
b The Trustee will hold assets in trust to apply those assets for the benefit of any or all of the beneficiaries.
c On a winding up of the Trust any remaining assets would be distributed to the beneficiaries, at the discretion of the Trustee or, failing which, for charitable purposes.
d The Company with consent of the Trustee may amend the terms of the trust deed constituting the Trust provided that no amendments can be made which would affect in any way any right, interest or benefit conferred on any person prior to the alteration becoming effective.
Copy Documentation A copy of the Rules of the Forth Ports PLC Long-Term Incentive Plan 2006 and a copy of the Declaration of Trust by Forth Ports PLC dated 26th February 1992 are available for inspection at the offices of McGrigors at 5 Old Bailey, London EC4M 7BA and the offices of the Company at 1 Prince of Wales Dock, Leith, Edinburgh EH6 7DX during normal business hours on any week day excluding Saturdays and public holidays until the close of the Annual General Meeting and in addition shall be available for inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
