NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Wednesday 3rd May 2006 at 11.00 am in The Boardroom, 11.
To consider and if thought fit pass the following Special Resolution: The Caledonian Hilton Hotel, Princes Street, Edinburgh THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to and in accordance with Section 166 of the PLEASE NOTE that the fifteenth Annual General Meeting of FORTH Companies Act 1985 the Act to make one or more market PORTS PLC will be held in The Boardroom at The Caledonian Hilton purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act on The Hotel, Princes Street, Edinburgh at 11.00am on Wednesday 3rd May London Stock Exchange of Ordinary Shares of 50p each in the capital 2006, for the following purposes: of the Company Ordinary Shares upon and subject to the following conditions: Ordinary Business i the maximum number of such Ordinary Shares hereby authorised 1.
To receive the Directors Report and accounts for the year ended 31st to be purchased is 6.838 million shares representing 15% of the December 2005.
To declare a final dividend of 28.7p per Ordinary Share in the capital ii the minimum price which may be paid by the Company for each of the Company.
Ordinary Share is 50 pence exclusive of any tax and expenses : 3.
To re-elect Mr. W. W. Murray as a Director.
iii the maximum price exclusive of any tax and expenses which may 4.
To re-elect Mr. C. D. Collins as a Director.
be paid by the Company for an Ordinary Share is an amount not 5.
To re-elect Mr. D. D. S. Robertson as a Director.
more than 5% above the average of the middle market values for 6.
To re-appoint Mr. D. H. Richardson as a Director.
an Ordinary Share taken from The London Stock Exchange Daily 7.
To receive and consider the Directors Remuneration Report for the Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the year ended 31st December 2005. day on which the Ordinary Share is purchased: 8.
To ratify the re-appointment of  LLP as iv unless previously revoked or varied the authority hereby conferred auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to agree their shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting remuneration.
of the Company to be held in 2007 or 12 months from the date of passing this resolution, whichever shall be the earlier: Special Business v the Company may enter into a contract or contracts for the 9.
To consider and if thought fit to pass the following Ordinary purchase of Ordinary Shares under the authority hereby conferred Resolution: before the expiry of this authority which would or might be THAT for the purposes of Article 5 of the Articles of Association of completed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and the Company, the Directors be and they are hereby generally and may make a purchase or purchases of Ordinary Shares in unconditionally authorised to exercise all powers of the Company to pursuance of any such contract or contracts notwithstanding such allot relevant securities within the meaning of Section 80 of the expiry: and Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6.2m vi any Ordinary Shares so purchased shall be cancelled or if the the Section 80 Amount during the period expiring on the date of the Directors so determine and subject to the provision of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Resolution, or on 2nd August 2007 whichever is the earlier, the Regulations 2003 and any applicable regulations of the United Prescribed Period and at any time after that pursuant to any offer or Kingdom Listing Authority, to be held as Treasury Shares.
agreement made by the Company during the Prescribed Period which 12.
To consider and if thought fit pass the following Ordinary Resolution: would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after the expiry THAT the Forth Ports PLC 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan the 2006 of the Prescribed Period.
Plan to be constituted by the rules produced in draft to this meeting 10.
To consider and if thought fit pass the following Special Resolution: and for the purposes of identification initialled by the Chairman THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 9 above, for the purposes thereof, the principal terms of which are summarised in the Appendix, of Article 5 of the Articles of Association of the Company, the Directors be and is hereby approved and adopted and the Directors be and be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the they are hereby authorised to do all acts and things necessary to Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities within the meaning of establish and carry the 2006 Plan into effect.
Section 94 of the said Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 8 as if sub-section 1 of Section 89 of the said Act did By order of the Board not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited: Morag McNeill Group Company Secretary i to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a Rights 1 Prince of Wales Dock Issue as defined in Article 5 : and Leith ii to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i Edinburgh above of equity securities and or the transfer of shares out of EH6 7DX Treasury following purchase pursuant to Resolution 11 vi up to 5th April 2006 an aggregate nominal value of 1.14m the Section 89 Amount : Copies of the service contracts between the Company and the Executive Directors and of the letters of appointment between the Company and the Non-Executive Directors will be available and shall expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the for inspection at the registered office of the Company on any weekday, except Saturdays and Company after the passing of this Resolution, or on 2nd August 2007 public holidays, during normal business hours until 3rd May 2006.
They will also be available for inspection at the place of the meeting from 10.45am until the meeting ends.
whichever is the earlier, the Prescribed Period save that after such The register of Directors shareholdings will be available for inspection at the place of the expiry, the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of an meeting, from the beginning of the meeting until it ends.
offer or agreement made by the Company during the Prescribed A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies Period which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted to attend and on a poll to vote instead of him or her: a proxy need not also be a member.
after the expiry of the Prescribed Period.
To be effective proxies must be lodged at the offices of the Companys Registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6ZR not later than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
