PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES General information At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Forth Ports PLC is a company incorporated in Scotland under the Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these Companies Act 1985.
The address of its registered office is given on financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: page 31.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are the provision of port, cargo handling, towage and related services IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources and facilities.
The Group also has extensive property interests.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: and the related These consolidated financial statements have been approved for issue amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements by the Board of Directors on 20th March 2006. on capital disclosures Basis of preparation IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease The preliminary results have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as endorsed by the EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 IFRIC 5 Right to Interests Arising from Decommissioning, applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of investment properties at fair value through IFRIC 4 provides guidance on when an arrangement is or contains a the Income Statement.
lease and addresses when the assessment or reassessment should be made and how payments for the lease should be separated from other In accordance with EU regulations the Group adopted IFRS for the year payments for the arrangement.
Management is currently assessing the ended 31st December 2005 and has restated prior year comparatives to impact of IFRIC 4 on the Groups results.
reflect its adoption of IFRS, unless otherwise stated.
Prior to the adoption of IFRS the Group prepared its financial statements in accordance with The Directors anticipate that the adoption of the other Standards and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group except for additional disclosures on The preparation of accounts in conformity with generally accepted financial instruments when the relevant standards come into effect for accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions periods commencing on or after 1st January 2007. that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements consolidated financial statements are set out below.
best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
As a result of the Groups decision to adopt the IFRS 1 exemption and not restate comparatives for IAS 32 and IAS 39, certain accounting IFRS 1 First Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting policies will only apply from 1st January 2005 and not to the 2004 Standards sets out the rules for first time adoption of IFRS.
Those policies that take effect from 1st January 2005 a company must determine IFRS compliant accounting policies and then are marked.
Details of these adjustments can be found in Appendix I. apply those retrospectively to derive its opening or transition balance In preparing the accounts for the year ended 31st December 2004, trade sheet.
There are, however, certain exemptions to the general requirement.
and other receivables and accrued property income were held at historic The Group has adopted the following key exemptions: cost less provision for irrecoverable amounts and interest rate swaps were held off Balance Sheet.
a IFRS 3 Business Combinations The major acquisitions completed by the Group prior to 1st January 2004 were in 1995.
The goodwill on If IAS 32 and IAS 39 had been adopted at 31st December 2004 the these acquisitions was written off directly to reserves and the Group effect would have been to show trade and other receivables and accrued has opted not to restate business combinations prior to the transition property income at amortised cost and interest rate swaps would have date on an IFRS 3 basis.
been shown at their fair value.
b IAS 19 Employee Benefits The net pension liability has been Consolidation recognised in full at the transition date.
The Group has adopted the 1 Subsidiaries option in IAS 19 that will result in the recognition of all actuarial gains Subsidiaries which are those entities including Special Purpose Entities and losses in full as they arise through the Statement of Recognised in which the Group has an interest of more than one half of the voting Income and Expense.
rights or otherwise has power to govern the financial and operating policies are consolidated.
c IFRS 2 Share-based Payment The cost of options granted prior to 7th November 2002 has not been recalculated under IFRS.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are presently exercisable or presently convertible are considered when assessing The Group adopted IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosures and whether the Group controls another entity.
Presentation and IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement from 1st January 2005.
As permitted by IFRS 1, 2004 comparatives have not been restated for these standards.
52 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is Where there is an excess of the Groups interest in the net fair value transferred to the Group and are no longer consolidated from the date of the acquirees identifiable assets over the purchase price negative that control ceases.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to goodwill, this amount is taken to the Income Statement in the year of account for the purchase of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is acquisition.
measured as the fair value of the assets given up, shares issued or liabilities undertaken at the date of acquisition plus costs directly Foreign Currencies attributable to the acquisition.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over The consolidated financial statements are presented in UK pounds the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired is recorded as Sterling which is the measurement and functional currency of the parent.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on Income statements and cashflows of foreign entities are translated into transactions between group companies are eliminated fully on the Groups reporting currency at average exchange rates for the year consolidation: unrealised losses are also eliminated unless costs cannot and their balance sheets are translated at the exchange rates ruling on be recovered.
Where necessary, accounting policies of subsidiaries 31st December.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the have been changed to ensure consistency with the policies adopted net investment in foreign entities and of borrowings and other currency by the Group.
instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders equity.
When a foreign entity is sold, such exchange 2 Associates differences are recognised in the Income Statement as part of the gain An associated undertaking associate is one in which the Group has a or loss on sale.
long-term interest, usually from 20% to 50%, and over which it exercises significant influence.
Investments in associates are accounted for by the Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign equity method of accounting.
Under this method the Groups share of entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and the post-acquisition profits or losses of associates is recognised in the translated at the closing rate.
Income Statement and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
The cumulative post-acquisition Segmental Reporting movements are adjusted against the cost of the investment.
Unrealised The Group has identified two primary business segments that provide gains on transactions between the Group and its associates are services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from one eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates: another.
Information relating to Ports and Property segments are shown.
unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides All inter-segment transactions and balances are eliminated on evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
The Group considers that all revenues, costs, assets and investment in associates includes goodwill net of accumulated liabilities can be identified as relating to either Ports or Property.
When the Groups share of losses in an income includes rental and other income from investment property associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, the Group does located within or adjacent the port estates.
not recognise further losses, unless the Group has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associates.
Revenue Recognition Revenue from Port activities represents the income earned from the 3 Joint Ventures provision of port facilities, which comprise cargo handling, towage, Joint ventures are arrangements in which the Group has a long-term pilotage, conservancy services and port related rental income.
Such interest and shares control under a written contractual agreement.
The revenue is recorded once the service has been provided.
Revenue from Groups interests in joint ventures are accounted for by the equity method Property includes rental income and sales of property developments.
The investment in the joint venture is initially recorded at Revenue excludes value added tax and is shown on a gross basis in cost and is adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition change in the relation to recoverable charges such as utilities, recoverable overtime Groups share of net assets of the jointly controlled entity.
and recoverable plant hire costs.
The Group Income Statement includes the Groups share of the profit Profits and losses arising on the sale of sites or completed developments or loss of the joint venture.
The Group recognises the portion of gains are recognised when contracts for sale have been exchanged and all or losses on the sale of assets by the Group to the joint venture that is material conditions have been satisfied.
The Board will have due regard attributable to the other venturers.
The Group does not recognise its to all the circumstances of any individual transaction in determining share of profits or losses from the joint venture that result from the whether or not any conditions are material or have been satisfied.
purchase of assets by the Group from the joint venture until it resells the assets to an independent party.
However, if a loss on the transaction Where sites or completed developments are sold to joint ventures or provides evidence of a reduction in the net realisable value of current associates, profits are only recognised in proportion to third parties assets or an impairment loss, the loss is recognised immediately.
When interests in those entities.
The remaining profits are recognised when the Groups share of losses of a joint venture equals or exceeds its the sites or completed developments are sold by the joint ventures or interest in the joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses associates to unrelated parties.
unless the Group has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
Consideration is given to the collectability of any debt outstanding arising from the sale of sites or property developments and provisions are made Goodwill where necessary.
The need for such provisions is reviewed on a regular Goodwill is the excess of the cost of acquisition over the net fair value basis.
of the identifiable assets, liabilities and recognised contingent liabilities of the business acquired.
Goodwill on businesses acquired after 1st January 1999 is shown as an intangible asset with an indefinite useful life and is subject to an annual impairment test and is also subject to a test whenever there is an indication of impairment.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1st January 1999 was written off immediately against reserves.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 53 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Property, Plant and Equipment Impairment of Long Lived Assets Operational land and buildings and plant and equipment are stated at Property, plant and equipment and other non-current assets, including historical cost less depreciation.
Land and capital works in progress are goodwill and intangible assets are reviewed for impairment losses not depreciated.
Cost includes transfers from equity of any gains losses annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate on qualifying cash flow hedges of foreign currency purchase costs where that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount which is the higher of an assets net All operational buildings and plant and equipment in the course of selling price and its value in use.
For the purposes of assessing construction are recorded as capital work in progress until such time as impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are they are brought into use by the Group.
Capital work in progress includes separately identifiable cash flows.
all direct expenditure and may include capitalised interest in accordance with the accounting policy on that subject.
On completion, such assets Investments are transferred to the appropriate asset category.
The Group classifies its investments in debt and equity securities into the following categories: trading, held-to-maturity and available-for-sale.
The Depreciation is charged to write off the cost less any residual value of the classification is dependent on the purpose for which the investments were asset on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives as follows: acquired.
Management determines the classification of its investments at the time of the purchase and re-evaluates such designation on a regular Years basis.
Investments that are acquired principally for the purpose of Buildings and dock structures 15-50 generating a profit from short-term fluctuations in price are classified as trading investments and included in current assets: for the purpose of Plant and equipment 3-25 these financial statements short-term is defined as three months.
During the period, the Group did not hold any investments in this category.
Where the carrying amount of an asset is greater than its estimated recoverable amount, it is written down immediately to its recoverable Investments with a fixed maturity that management has the intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as held-to-maturity and are amount.
included in non-current assets, except for maturities within twelve months from the Balance Sheet date which are classified as current assets.
Gains and losses on disposals of assets are included in operating profit.
Investments intended to be held for an indefinite period of time, Repairs and maintenance are charged to the Income Statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
The cost of major which may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or changes in interest rates, are classified as available-for-sale and are included in nonrenovations is included in the carrying amount of the assets when it is probable that future economic benefits in excess of the originally current assets unless management has the express intention of holding the investment for less than twelve months from the balance sheet date assessed standard of performance of the existing asset will flow to the Group.
Major renovations are depreciated over the remaining or unless they will need to be sold to raise operating capital, in which case they are included in current assets.
During the period the Group life of the related asset.
did not hold any investments in this category.
Investment Property Investment property, principally comprising tenanted land and buildings Investment in Subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any permanent within the port estates, is held for long-term rental yields and is not occupied by the Group.
Investment property is treated as a long-term diminution in value.
investment and is carried at fair value determined annually or at interim balance sheet dates where there is a material change in fair value.
Finance and Operating Leases Leases of assets where the Group has substantially all the risks and Changes in fair values are recorded in the Income Statement in accordance with IAS 40 and are included in other income.
rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the Intangible Assets lower of the fair value of the leased asset or the present value of the minimum lease payments, and are depreciated over their useful lives.
Intangible assets refer principally to computer software.
The interest element of the rental payments is charged to the Income Statement over the period of the lease contract on the basis of the capital Costs associated with developing or maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs that are element outstanding.
The finance charges outstanding are included in short-term and long-term payables as appropriate.
directly associated with identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group and which will probably generate economic Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Direct costs include staff costs of those involved in the software are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
The cost of operating leases is charged to the Income Statement as incurred.
Assets leased out by the Group under operating leases are included in Expenditure which enhances or extends the performance of identifiable computer software products beyond their original specifications is property, plant and equipment in the Balance Sheet.
They are depreciated over their expected useful lives on a basis consistent with similar owned recognised as a capital improvement and added to the original cost of the software.
Rental income net of any incentives given to lessees is recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised using the straight-line method over their useful lives, not exceeding a period of 10 years.
54 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 Lease Incentives Cash and Cash Equivalents Any lease incentive paid or payable for the agreement of a new or Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the Balance Sheet at cost.
For operating lease is allocated over the term of the lease regardless of their the purposes of the Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents form or cash flow effect.
Such incentives are recognised over the lease comprise cash on hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term term, unless another systematic basis is appropriate, in order to ensure highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less the Income Statement reflects the true effective rental charge irrespective and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are included within borrowings in of the particular cash flow arrangements agreed.
current liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
Grants relating to the Purchase of Property, Plant and Equipment Share Capital Capital grants are recognised at their fair value where there is a Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental external costs reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and the Group will directly attributable to the issue of new shares, other than in connection comply with all conditions pertaining to the grant.
Grants receivable are with business combinations, are shown in equity as a deduction, net of credited against the historic cost of the assets to which the grant relates.
Share issue costs incurred directly in connection The amount amortised in each period is set against the depreciation with a business combination are included in the cost of acquisition.
charge of the asset to which it relates.
Where the Company or its subsidiaries purchases the Companys equity Provisions share capital, the consideration paid including any attributable Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or incremental external costs net of income taxes is deducted from total constructive obligation as a result of past events where it is probable shareholders equity as own shares held.
Where such shares are that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation subsequently sold, any consideration received is included in and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
The Group recognises a provision for onerous contracts when the Borrowings expected benefits to be derived from a contract are less than the Borrowings are recognised initially as the proceeds received, net of unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective yield method: any difference between Restructuring provisions are recognised in the period in which the Group proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is has a present legal or constructive obligation for payment.
Costs relating recognised in the Income Statement over the period of the borrowings.
to the ongoing activities of the Group are not provided in advance.
Taxation Dividends The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the period and takes Dividends are recorded in the Groups financial statements in the period into account deferred taxation.
in which they are approved by the shareholders or by the Board in the case of interim dividends.
Inter Group dividends are recorded in the Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on period in which they are approved by the subsidiary companys Board.
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
Current Inventories tax rates in the relevant jurisdiction are used in the determination of Property work in progress relates to expenditure on property development deferred income tax.
projects, land held for development and project work in progress and is included at cost less amounts written off which are deemed to be Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that irrecoverable.
Cost includes all direct expenditure and associated indirect future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary costs and related costs of finance where appropriate.
On completion, differences can be utilised.
such assets are transferred to investment properties or sold to third parties.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where Trade Receivables and Accrued Property Income the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled Trade receivables and accrued property income are carried at original and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the invoice amount less an allowance made for impairment of these foreseeable future.
An allowance for impairment of trade receivables and accrued property income is established when there is objective evidence Clawback that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to Under the Ports Act 1991 Levy on Disposals of Land, etc.
Order 1992 the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the allowance is the the Order, the Company and one of its subsidiaries may be liable to difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount, pay a levy, known as clawback, on certain asset disposals as defined in being the present value of expected cash flows, discounted at the market the Order which are broadly disposals of land and relevant interests in rate of interest for similar borrowers.
The carrying amount of the asset is land.
In certain circumstances, clawback payment can be made in annual reduced through the use of this impairment allowance and the amount instalments over a period of up to ten years.
Clawback costs are matched of the loss is recognised in the Income Statement.
In future periods the to income arising from disposals made.
unwinding of the discount is recognised within finance income.
Capitalisation of Finance Costs and Interest The Groups policy is to capitalise finance costs and interest incurred that are directly attributable to major construction projects.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 55 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Employee Benefits Interest Rate Risk Pension contributions are charged principally at a rate calculated by the The Group borrows at variable rates and may use interest rate swaps as Actuary to provide, over the expected remaining service lives of current cash flow hedges of future interest payments, which have the economic employees, for all retirement benefits related to projected final salaries effect of converting borrowings from floating rates to fixed rates.
the interest rate swaps, the Group agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals mainly quarterly, the difference between fixed The liability in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present contract rates and floating rate interest amounts calculated by reference value of the defined benefit obligation at the Balance Sheet date minus to the agreed notional principal amounts.
the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for past service cost.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated by independent Credit Risk actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of The Groups policy is to ensure that property sales are covered by either the defined benefit obligation is determined by the estimated future cash controlled release of land plots in exchange for cash, fixed charge outflows using market yields on high quality corporate bonds.
The Group also checks that Port customers have an appropriate credit history when likely future revenue exceeds Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full as they arise in the limits agreed by the Board.
Derivative counter-parties and cash Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
transactions are limited to quality financial institutions with a long-term Standard & Poors credit index rating of at least A.
Share Based Payment The Group awards shares in Forth Ports PLC to all eligible Executive Liquidity Risk Directors and Senior Managers under the LTIP which was approved at Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and the Annual General Meeting of the Company in May 2002.
The shares marketable securities, the availability of funding through an adequate are granted to the employee at nil cost.
In addition, all eligible employees amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market were offered the opportunity to take part in an approved Save As You positions.
Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying businesses, Group Earn SAYE scheme which started in 2004 as approved at the Annual Treasury aims at maintaining flexibility in funding by keeping committed General Meeting of the Company in May 2004.
The option price was credit lines available.
granted to employees at a discount to the market price of the shares at the date of issue.
Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities In both cases, the Group makes a charge to the Income Statement over Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised in the Balance the option period that recognises the fair value of the share options at the Sheet at cost and subsequently are re-measured at their fair value.
The date of their grant, having regard to such factors as the weighted average method of recognising the resulting gain or loss is dependent on the share price, exercise price where applicable, expected dividends, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain risk-free interest rate and the expected rates of early exercise.
derivatives as either a hedge of the fair value of a recognised asset or liability fair value hedge or a hedge of a forecasted transaction or of Financial Risk Management a firm commitment cash flow hedge.
There are no hedges of the net Financial Risk Factors investment in foreign entities.
The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks, including the effects of changes in debt prices, foreign currency exchange rates Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as and interest rates.
The Groups overall risk management programme fair value hedges and that are highly effective, are recorded in the Income focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise Statement, along with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset potential adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group.
The or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Group may use derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge certain exposures.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges and that are highly effective, are recognised in Risk management is carried out by a central treasury function Group equity.
Where the forecasted transaction or firm commitment results Treasury, operating under policies approved by the Board of Directors.
in the recognition of an asset for example, property, plant and Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close equipment or of a liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in co-operation with the Groups operating units.
equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Otherwise, amounts deferred in equity Foreign Exchange Risk are transferred to the Income Statement and classified as revenue or The Group has relatively little exposure to foreign exchange risk.
Where expense in the same periods during which the hedged firm commitments appropriate, entities in the Group use forward contracts, transacted by or forecasted transaction affects the Income Statement for example, Group Treasury, to hedge their exposure to foreign currency risk in when the forecasted sale takes place.
connection with the measurement currency.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer Where appropriate, the Group hedges the foreign currency exposure of meets the criteria for hedge accounting under IAS 39, any cumulative its contract commitments to purchase certain assets mainly from Europe.
gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is The forward contracts used in its programme mature in twelve months or recognised when the committed or forecasted transaction ultimately is less, consistent with the related purchase commitments.
recognised in the Income Statement.
When a committed or forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the Income Statement.
56 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 The Group documents at the inception of the transaction, the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
This process includes linking all derivatives designated as hedges to specific assets and liabilities or to specific firm commitments or forecast transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at the hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows or hedged items.
Fair Value Estimation The fair value of publicly traded derivatives and trading and available-forsale securities is based on quoted market prices at the Balance Sheet date.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
In assessing the fair value of non-traded derivatives and other financial instruments, the Group uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each Balance Sheet date.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for the specific or similar instruments are used for long-term debt.
Other techniques, such as option pricing models and estimated discounted value of future cash flows, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
The face value less any estimated credit adjustments for financial assets and liabilities with a maturity of less than one year are assumed to approximate to their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
Key Assumptions and Estimates The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
The resulting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The Board has considered the critical accounting estimates and assumptions used in the Accounts and concluded that the main area of significant risk which may cause a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year is in respect of the assumptions used to calculate pension benefits.
The assumptions include gilt yield at the year end, investment return including a risk margin over gilt yield, price and salary inflation and mortality assumptions.
For example, a 0.5% change in the future investment return assumed could affect the shortfall position within the Forth and Tilbury schemes positively or negatively by over 13m, which would equate to a movement of 35% on the 31st December 2005 year end deficit position.
Full details of the assumptions used to calculate the pension assets and liabilities may be found in Note 32.
