111 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Group 4 Securicor plc will be held at Ironmongers Hall, Barbican, London EC2Y 8AA on Thursday, 29 June 2006 at 2.00 pm.
Resolutions 1 to 7 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
Resolutions 8 and 9 will be proposed as special resolutions.
To receive the financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2005 and the reports of the directors and auditor thereon.
To receive and approve the Directors Remuneration Report contained in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005.
To confirm and declare dividends.
To elect Mark Seligman as a director member of Remuneration Committee.
To re-elect the directors who retire by rotation: a Trevor Dighton b Thorleif Krarup c Bo Lerenius member of Remuneration Committee 6.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the shareholders, and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
That the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in section 80 2 of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 105,000,000 provided that the authority hereby given shall expire on 1 June 2011, save that the Company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors shall be entitled to allot relevant securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired: and all unexpired authorities previously granted to the directors to allot relevant securities be and are hereby revoked.
That the directors be and are hereby granted, pursuant to section 95 of the Act, power to allot equity securities as defined in section 94 2 of the Act for cash as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: i the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other offer of securities in favour of the holders of ordinary shares on the register of members at such record dates as the directors may determine where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of the ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held or deemed to be held by them on any such record date, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any overseas territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue of shares being represented by depositary receipts or any other matter whatever: and ii the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above to any person or persons of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 15,880,000 and shall expire on 1 June 2011 save that the Company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors shall be entitled to allot equity securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
112 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 9.
That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act of ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company provided that: i the maximum number of shares which may be purchased is 127,000,000: ii the minimum price which may be paid for each share is 25p: iii the maximum price which may be paid for each share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share in the Company as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which such share is contracted to be purchased: and iv this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2007 except in relation to the purchase of shares the contract for which was entered into before the expiry of this authority and which might be executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
By order of the board Nigel Griffiths The Manor Secretary Manor Royal 11 April 2006 Crawley West Sussex RH10 9UN Notes a Every member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint another person as his proxy to attend and, on a poll, to vote thereat instead of him and such proxy need not be a member.
Forms appointing proxies must be deposited at the office of the Companys registrar by 2.00pm on 27 June 2006.
The appointment of a proxy will not prevent a member from attending and voting at the Annual General Meeting should he decide to do so.
b To have the right to attend and vote at the meeting and also for the purposes of calculating how many votes a person may cast, a person must have his name entered on the register of ordinary shares by no later than 2.00 pm on 27 June 2006.
Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
c By attending the meeting, a member expressly agrees that he is requesting and willing to receive any communications made at the meeting.
113 Financial calendar and corporate addresses Results announcements Auditor Interim results September KPMG Audit Plc Final results March Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor Dividend payment 8 Salisbury Square Interim paid 16 December 2005 London EC4Y 8BB Final payable 11 July 2006 Stockbrokers Annual General Meeting Deutsche Bank AG London 29 June 2006 Winchester House Great Winchester Street Registered office London EC2N 2DB The Manor Manor Royal Financial advisors Crawley Morgan Stanley & Co. Limited West Sussex RH10 9UN, UK 25 Cabot Square Telephone 44 0 1293 554 400 Canary Wharf London E14 4QA Registered number 4992207 Greenhill & Co. International Regent Gate Registrars and transfer office 56-58 Conduit Street Capita Registrars London W1S 2YZ The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Group 4 Securicor website Beckenham www.
com Designed and produced by MAGEE Printed by St Ives Westerham Press Group 4 Securicor plc Annual Report and Accounts Year ended 31 December 2005 A World of Security Solutions A World of Security Solutions Group 4 Securicor plc Group 4 Securicor plc The Manor, Manor Royal, ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS Crawley, West Sussex RH10 9UN, UK Telephone: 44 0 1293 554 400 Registered no.
