Company Secretary and Advisers Secretary and Registered Office Auditors Cliff Fluet KPMG Audit Plc 30 Leicester Square 8 Salisbury Square London WC2H 7LA London EC4Y 8BB Company Registration Number Brokers 923454 JPMorgan Cazenove 20 Moorgate Solicitors London EC2R 6DA Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer 65 Fleet Street Bankers London EC4A 1HS Bank of Scotland 38 Threadneedle Street Investment Bankers London EC2P 2EH Credit Suisse First Boston One Cabot Square Registrars and Transfer Office London E14 4QJ Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway Worthing West Sussex BN99 6DA 64 Explanatory statement relating to new equity incentive schemes The Directors, on the recommendation of the New Remuneration Committee of the Company that is, the New Remuneration Committee which came into being immediately after the merger Merger between Capital Radio plc and GWR Group plc came into effect on 9 May 2005 who have taken independent advice, are seeking shareholders approval at the Annual General Meeting for the introduction of the following new equity incentive schemes: i The GCap Media plc 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan: ii The GCap Media plc Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme: and iii The GCap Media plc Interim Merger Scheme.
As Chairman of the New Remuneration Committee, I would like to explain the background and thinking behind these schemes.
In addition to annual bonus schemes and share option schemes, before the Merger, both Capital Radio plc and GWR Group plc had existing long-term incentive schemes, but they were based on very different performance hurdles.
As soon as the proposed merger was announced, a shadow remuneration committee was formed from the two companies to design a remuneration structure for the putative new group that more closely aligned the creation of long-term shareholder value with reasonable executive management expectations of reward.
The remuneration structure for the Executive Directors and senior executives of the Company that has been approved by the New Remuneration Committee and the Board of the Company consists of three basic elements: base salaries, a short-term bonus scheme, and a long-term incentive plan.
The policy of the New Remuneration Committee on base salaries is to pay at competitive levels.
The short-term bonus is to be assessed by reference to overall corporate financial performance 70%, other financial and non-financial measures 15% and personal objectives 15% with a maximum of 100% of base salary available in any year.
In 2006, 35% of any net bonus would be deferred and used to acquire shares under the Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme and subject to the award of matching shares depending on growth in earnings per share over a three-year period effectively on an RPI-plus basis with the possibility of earning up to two shares for each deferred share for exceptional performance.
The first awards made under the 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan will be based on Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to the Media sub-sector of the FTSE All-Share Index 50% and the FTSE 250 Share Index 50% over three years.
Annual awards of up to 150% of base salary may be made under the LTIP.
The first issue of options under the LTIP will, if approved, not be able to take place until November, as the Company will be in a close period from 1 October until its interim results are announced.
However, the New Remuneration Committee has proposed that the level of awards i. e. the number of shares placed under award will be calculated by reference to the GCap Media plc share price as at 1 September 2005.
Ideally an issue of these incentives would have been made earlier in the year, but that has not been possible to achieve.
No further options under the Companys 1998 Share Option Scheme will be issued to Executive Directors or the senior executives who participate in the 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan.
No further awards will be made under the Companys existing 1996 Long Term Incentive Plan.
At the inception of the Merger, there were very few long-term incentives granted by either Capital Radio plc or GWR Group plc prior to the Merger that had any prospect of payout within the first three years.
The New Remuneration Committee took the view that a critical measure of the success of the Merger was the delivery of the cost savings reported in the Merger documents GWR Group plcs Scheme of Arrangement document and Capital Radio plcs Listing Particulars, copies of which can be found on the Companys website, www.
It has therefore proposed an Interim Merger Scheme that has a maximum payout over two years of 100% of base salary as at 1 April 2005 on the achievement of annualised cost savings of at least 12 million by 31 March 2007.
Prior to the Merger, the Company reported, in paragraph 4 of the Listing Particulars, that the Merger would realise annualised cost savings of at least 7.5 million by 31 March 2007.
65 Explanatory statement relating to new equity incentive schemes continued The New Remuneration Committee is of the clear view that these three schemes provide the executive management with the prospect of a reasonable reward in overall quantum and that the incentives align their interests with those of shareholders.
The design of these three schemes was driven by the New Remuneration Committee, who have appointed  LLP to carry out the detailed implementation, and to model the possible outcomes of the proposals.
The results show that the potential rewards for the Executive Directors and senior executives of GCap Media plc including base salaries, pension contributions and the proposed Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme and 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan would only become a significant multiple of salary on the achievement of strong or outstanding performance broadly with both Company and share performance being in the top quartile or top decile of the peer groups.
The total ongoing annual cost of the proposed compensation framework for the three Executive Directors and three senior executives who it is intended will participate in the schemes, including the share-based payments at the estimated charge to profits under accounting standard IFRS2, varies between just over 4 million for average performance, to 6.5 million for outstanding performance.
This includes the charge on the issue of shares under the LTIP, whose ultimate value would, of course, be entirely dependent on performance over the succeeding three years.
Maximum annual dilution, should all long-term incentives be met from the issue of new shares, would be about 0.7% of the share capital of GCap Media plc at its present levels.
The New Remuneration Committee intends, wherever possible, to procure that awards of shares are met from shares held in trust.
It should be noted that this explanatory statement sets out the recommendations for the post-Merger remuneration structure for GCap Media plc.
For governance reasons, the previous Remuneration Committee chaired by Peter Mitchell approved the statutory Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 19 to 30 of this document on 9 May 2005 the date of signature of the Companys accounts for the 6 month period to 31 March 2005.
At that date, the New Remuneration Committee was not in a position to put the recommendations in this explanatory statement to shareholders.
It should also be noted that the previous Remuneration Committee of Capital Radio plc approved the payment of bonuses to its Executive Directors and senior executives, in respect of pre-Merger work, following approval and signature of their Directors Remuneration Report.
These bonuses will be reported to shareholders in the next Directors Remuneration Report of GCap Media plc, and do not form part of the above proposals.
The Resolutions which will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting numbered 16,17 and 18 are on pages 68 and 69: further details of the proposed schemes are in the Appendices to the Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 72 to 84.
The Directors believe these proposals to be in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole and recommend that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions as they intend to do so in respect of their personal shareholdings which, in aggregate, amount to 4,278,496 shares as at the date of this document.
Alastair Ross Goobey Chairman of the New Remuneration Committee GCap Media plc 19 September 2005 Footnote:  LLP is named in this explanatory statement as having provided advice to the New Remuneration Committee.
 LLP has given and has not withdrawn its written consent to the inclusion of the references to  in the form and context in which they are included.
