Notes forming part of the Accounts 1 Accounting Policies A summary of the principal Group accounting policies, all of which have been applied consistently throughout the period, is set out below.
Basis of accounting The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost accounting rules, modified to include the revaluation of certain fixed assets, and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
Basis of consolidation i The consolidated accounts include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings made up to 31 March 2005.
Unless otherwise stated, the acquisition method of accounting has been adopted.
Under this method, the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the period are included in the consolidated profit and loss account from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
An associate is an undertaking in which the Group has a long term interest, usually from 20% to 50% of the equity voting rights, and over which it exercises significant influence.
The Groups share of the profits less losses of associates is included in the consolidated profit and loss account and its interest in their net assets is included in the consolidated balance sheet.
Other fixed asset investments in the Group accounts, and all fixed assets in the accounts of the Company, are stated at cost less amounts written off in respect of any impairment in value.
ii Purchased goodwill both positive and negative arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions before 1 October 1997, when Financial Reporting Standard 10, Goodwill and intangible assets, was adopted, was written off to reserves in the year of acquisition.
When a subsequent disposal occurs any related goodwill previously written off to reserves is written back through the profit and loss account as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
Purchased goodwill representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration given and any related costs over the fair value of the separable net assets acquired arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions since 1 October 1997 is capitalised.
Positive goodwill is amortised to nil by equal annual instalments over its estimated useful life, being deemed to be 20 years.
On the subsequent disposal or termination of a business acquired since 1 October 1997, the profit or loss on disposal or termination is calculated after charging crediting the unamortised amount of any related goodwill negative goodwill.
iii Under section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
The result for the financial period dealt with in the financial statements of the holding company was a loss of 8,610,000 2004: profit 47,346,000.
39 Notes forming part of the Accounts continued c. Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset on a straight line basis over its expected useful life, as follows: Freehold buildings 2%-4% per annum Long leasehold premises 4%-6% per annum Short leasehold premises over the term of the lease, or where the lease is renewable, 5% Office and studio equipment 10%-20% per annum Digital equipment over the term of the contract Computer equipment 33% per annum Motor vehicles 25% per annum Freehold land is not depreciated.
d. Investments In the Companys accounts investments in subsidiary companies are stated at cost less provisions where, in the opinion of the Directors, there has been an impairment in the value of the investment.
Dividends receivable from subsidiary companies are credited to the Companys profit and loss account.
Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less provisions where, in the opinion of the Directors, there has been an impairment in the value of the investment.
e. Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the period and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS19.
f. Operating leases Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis.
g. Finance leases Assets held under finance lease agreements are included in tangible fixed assets and are depreciated in accordance with the depreciation policy.
Obligations under such agreements are included in creditors net of finance charges allocated to future periods.
Finance charges are taken to the profit and loss account so that the annual rate of charge on the outstanding obligation at the end of each accounting period is approximately constant.
h. Turnover Turnover comprises income from the sale of advertising airtime, sponsorship and promotions net of agencies commissions and income from advertising on the Internet.
Turnover is stated excluding VAT, trade discounts, and intra group transactions and derives from goods and services provided in the normal course of business.
Airtime revenue is recognised on the date of broadcast.
Sponsorship revenue and internet advertising are recognised over the life of the contract.
