Appendix 1 Summary of the principal features of the GCap Media plc 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan the 2005 LTIP Introduction 1 A summary of the main features of the 2005 LTIP is set out below, together with details of the way in which the 2005 LTIP is intended to operate.
The 2005 LTIP will be supervised by the Remuneration Committee.
2 The 2005 LTIP allows the award of both nil cost or nominal cost share options and contingent share awards together referred to as awards.
It is intended that the first awards expected in November 2005 will be made as nil cost or nominal cost share options.
More information on the award price is contained in paragraph 21 below.
Employee eligibility 3 The 2005 LTIP will offer selected Executive Directors and employees of the group the opportunity to acquire ordinary shares in GCap Media plc the Company.
Participation limits 4 The maximum annual value of shares that may be awarded to a participant under the 2005 LTIP cannot exceed 150% of the participants basic salary from the group expressed as an annual rate at the award date.
In the case of the first awards made under the 2005 LTIP, the value of the Companys shares as at 1 September 2005 will be used for the purpose of this calculation.
For subsequent awards, the share value used will be the market value of the shares on the award date.
Shareholder dilution 5 The 2005 LTIP contains limits on the number of new shares to be issued under the 2005 LTIP.
These limits apply to both awards made under the 2005 LTIP and all other employee share schemes operated by the Group.
Awards which have lapsed or been renounced are disregarded.
Shares which have been purchased in the market, including any so purchased and held by trustees for the purpose of satisfying awards are disregarded.
The reissue of treasury shares will be treated as a new issue of shares.
6 The Remuneration Committee will ensure that appropriate policies regarding the timing and amount of awards exist in order to spread the potential issue of new shares over the life of the 2005 LTIP.
7 The dilution limits are as follows: All schemes limit The rules of the 2005 LTIP provide that no more than 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, from time to time, should be issued under all share incentive schemes operated by the Group in any rolling ten year period.
Executive discretionary schemes limit The rules of the 2005 LTIP provide that no more than 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, from time to time, should be issued under all executive discretionary share incentive schemes operated by the Group in any rolling ten year period.
Making of awards 8 Awards can only be granted in the period of 42 days beginning on the day on which the London Stock Exchange is open for the transaction of business the Dealing Day following the date on which the 2005 LTIP is adopted by the Company in General Meeting, or following the announcement of the Companys interim or final results, or at other times if the Remuneration Committee considers there are exceptional circumstances.
72 9 No award may be granted to a participant during a period proscribed for dealings in shares by Directors or certain employees of the group whether by the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority or otherwise, except where this is permitted under the Model Code or the Companys own code on insider dealing.
10 An award will be personal to the participant and not transferable other than on death when it can be exercised by the participants personal representatives.
11 No award can be granted more than 10 years after adoption of the 2005 LTIP and no award can be granted to an employee less than six months before the date on which he is bound or entitled to retire under the terms of his contract of employment.
Performance targets 12 At the time of grant of an award the Remuneration Committee will set performance targets which must be satisfied before the award can vest.
Such targets will normally be measured over a three year period.
13 Performance targets once set will not be amended unless an event occurs which causes the Remuneration Committee to consider that an amended target would be a fairer measure of performance and is not materially less difficult to satisfy.
14 It is the intention of the Remuneration Committee that the first awards made to GCap Media plc Executive Directors and senior employees in 2005 will be subject to the following performance target.
50% of the award will be subject to total shareholder return performance compared to the constituent companies of the FTSE Media Sector the First Comparator Group and 50% of the award will be subject to total shareholder return performance compared to the constituent companies of the FTSE 250 Index the Second Comparator Group.
12.5% of the award will vest if the total shareholder return of the Company over the three year period commencing on 9 May 2005 the Performance Period is equal to the median total shareholder return of the First Comparator Group over that Period.
Additionally, if the total shareholder return of the Company over the Performance Period is equal to the median total shareholder return of the Second Comparator Group over that period, 12.5% of the award will vest.
If the Companys total shareholder return over the Performance Period would place it in the upper quartile of the total shareholder return of the First Comparator Group and or the Second Comparator Group, 50% of the award will vest respectively i. e. if both targets are met 100% of the award will vest.
If the Companys total shareholder return is between the median and upper quartile of the First Comparator Group and or the second Comparator Group, the award will vest proportionately between 12.5% and 50% respectively.
15 TSR is the annual compound return received on a share calculated by measuring the increase in the price of a share over the Performance Period and the gross value of dividends and other benefits received on the share and reinvested on the day that share was declared ex dividend.
16 No re-testing of the performance targets will occur.
17 The Remuneration Committees overall policy is to make awards under the 2005 LTIP using performance conditions and target levels which are believed to be stretching and provide value to the participants commensurate with the performance achieved.
The policy when deciding on performance measures is to use measures the participants can, by their actions, influence, in order to provide effective motivation.
The policy is to make awards annually and, as has been mentioned above, to ensure that the targets are set at the time of award with regard to prevailing conditions and that all the equity incentive arrangements in which an employee participates are considered as one whole.
Expected value 18 Whilst the 2005 LTIP will provide a participant with rights over shares for no or negligible payment, the value of the shares placed under award does not represent the value of that award to a participant, in view of the risks of forfeiture due to the cessation of employment or failure of the Company to achieve the stretching performance targets.
73 19 In order to measure the value of awards under the 2005 LTIP, the Company has estimated the expected value EV of an award.
The EV is the present value of the sum of all the various possible outcomes at vesting or exercise of awards and reflects the probabilities of achieving those outcomes.
20 The Remuneration Committee has sought external independent advice from  LLP as to the EV of the first award under the 2005 LTIP expected in November 2005 based on a form of Black-Scholes methodology modified to take into account the performance targets.
 LLP have advised that this first award under the 2005 LTIP would have a value of approximately 60% of the maximum face value of the award.
Award price 21 The award price shall be determined by the Remuneration Committee.
It is anticipated to be nil except in the case of an award where it has been determined that the award will be satisfied by the issue of shares directly to the award holder, in which case the amount payable per share shall not be less than the nominal value of a share.
Flexibility has been retained for the award price to be set at any other value for example at the market value of a share.
Variation of share capital 22 Upon any variation of the share capital of the Company, whether by way of a capitalisation issue other than a capitalisation issue in substitution for or as an alternative to a cash dividend, a rights issue, a bonus issue, a rights offer or any sub-division, consolidation, reduction or other variation of the Companys share capital, the award price and or the number of shares comprised in an award may be adjusted in such manner as the Remuneration Committee determines.
Vesting of awards 23 An award will vest only at a time or times between the third anniversary of its date of grant and the tenth anniversary of that date, except in the following circumstances: a Where the participant ceases to be employed by the group as a result of death, injury, disability, ill health, redundancy or retirement, or as a result of the Company or part of the business by which a participant was employed ceasing to be a member or part of the group a good leaver, a proportion of the award will vest in the absolute discretion of the Remuneration Committee taking into account such factors as they consider relevant including, but not limited to, achievement of the performance targets and time elapsed from the date of award as at the date of cessation of employment.
a An option ordinarily lapses if it has not been exercised within 6 months or 12 months in the case of cessation of employment as a result of death of the date on which employment ceases for a good leaver unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise.
b The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to allow a participants award to vest if he is transferred to work overseas and as a result would suffer less favourable tax treatment in respect of his award or become subject to a restriction on his ability to hold or deal in the shares acquired or the sale proceeds received.
c If a participant ceases to be employed by the Group for any other reason prior to the third anniversary of the date of grant of an award, the award will lapse unless the Remuneration Committee, in its absolute discretion, determines otherwise.
In this case, the proportion of the award which shall vest will be determined in the absolute discretion of the Remuneration Committee taking into account such factors as they consider relevant including, but not limited to, achievement of the performance targets and time elapsed from the date of award as at the date of cessation of employment.
d Additionally, in the event of a takeover, reconstruction, amalgamation or winding up of the Company, a proportion of the awards will vest immediately in the absolute discretion of the Remuneration Committee taking into account such factors as they consider relevant including, but not limited to, achievement of the 74 performance targets and time elapsed from the date of award as at the date of the event in question.
If the acquiring company agrees, the award may be exchanged for an award over shares in the acquiring company.
e The Remuneration Committee may, where it considers it likely that an event in d will take place, in addition declare that awards will vest during a limited period prior to the relevant event typically in order to preserve the Companys entitlement to corporation tax deductions in respect of such events.
Pensionability 24 Awards under the 2005 LTIP will not be pensionable.
Source of shares and employee trust 25 The 2005 LTIP allows the use of newly issued shares and shares acquired on market either through the medium of an employee benefit trust or the holding of shares in treasury.
Dividend roll up 26 If dividends have been paid in respect of the Companys shares during the vesting period, the Remuneration Committee may at its discretion determine that amounts equivalent to such dividends will be payable to an award holder in shares or cash following vesting based on the number of shares that vest, subject to the deduction of any applicable income tax and social security contributions.
Amendments to the 2005 LTIP 27 The 2005 LTIP may at any time be amended.
However the provisions in the 2005 LTIP relating to: a eligibility to participate in the 2005 LTIP: b limits on the number of new shares which may be issued pursuant to the 2005 LTIP: c the maximum entitlement of individual participants under the 2005 LTIP: and d the basis for determining a participants entitlement to benefit under the 2005 LTIP and the price of the shares to be provided, and for the adjustment thereof, if any, in the event of a capitalisation issue other than a capitalisation issue in substitution for or as an alternative to a cash dividend, rights issue, bonus issue, rights offer or any sub-division or consolidation of shares or reduction of capital or any other variation of capital: will not be altered for the benefit of existing or future participants without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting except for minor amendments to benefit the administration of the 2005 LTIP, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants, the Company or a member of the group.
Additionally, no amendment can be made which would adversely affect the rights of participants without their consent.
