Appendix 3 Summary of the principal features of the GCap Media plc Interim Merger Scheme the Scheme Introduction 1 A summary of the main features of the Scheme is set out below, together with details of the way in which the Scheme is intended to operate.
The Scheme will be supervised by the Remuneration Committee.
2 The Scheme provides for the making of an award in the form of a nil cost or nominal cost share option and a contingent cash award.
Awards will only be made once under the Scheme anticipated to be in November 2005.
Employee eligibility 3 The Scheme will offer selected Executive Directors and employees of the Group the opportunity to acquire ordinary shares in GCap Media plc the Company and to receive a cash payment.
Participation limits 4 The maximum value of an award that may be made to a participant under the Scheme shall be 100% of the participants basic salary from the group expressed as an annual rate at 1 April 2005.
The value of the Companys shares as at 1 September 2005 will be used in determining the value of the shares under option for the purposes of this calculation.
Shareholder dilution 5 The Scheme contains limits on the number of new shares to be issued under the Scheme.
These limits apply to both awards made under the Scheme and all other employee share schemes operated by the Group.
Awards which have lapsed or been renounced are disregarded.
Shares which have been purchased, or it has been determined will be purchased, in the market for the purpose of satisfying awards are disregarded.
The reissue of treasury shares will be treated as a new issue of shares.
6 The dilution limits are as follows: All schemes limit The rules of the Scheme provide that no more than 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, from time to time, should be issued under all share incentive schemes operated by the Group in any rolling ten year period.
Executive discretionary schemes limit The rules of the Scheme provide that no more than 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, from time to time, should be issued under all executive discretionary share incentive schemes operated by the Group in any rolling ten year period.
Making of awards 7 Awards can only be made in the period of 42 days beginning on the Dealing Day following the date on which the Scheme is adopted by the Company in General Meeting, or, if this is a proscribed period, as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter.
8 No award may be granted to a participant during a period proscribed for dealings in shares by Directors or certain employees of the Group whether by the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority of otherwise, except where this is permitted under the Model Code or the Companys own code on insider dealing.
9 An award will be personal to the participant and not transferable other than on death when it can be exercised by the participants personal representatives.
10 No award can be granted more than 3 years after adoption of the Scheme and no award can be granted to an employee less than six months before the date on which he is bound or entitled to retire under the terms of his contract of employment.
81 Performance targets 11 At the time of grant of an award the Remuneration Committee will set performance targets which must be satisfied before the award can vest.
12 Performance targets once set will not be amended.
13 It is the intention of the Remuneration Committee that the awards made under the Scheme will be subject to the following performance target: Annualised Merger Proportion of Synergies achieved in Proportion of Proportion of Option Contingent Cash the Financial Year to Award Vesting exercisable Award payable 31 March 2006 Below 3,000,000 Nil Nil Nil 3,000,000 7.5% 3.75% 3.75% Between 3,000,000 and 7.5% to 50% 3.75% to 25% 3.75% to 25% 6,000,000 pro rata pro rata pro rata 6,000,000 or above 50% 25% 25% Aggregate Annualised Proportion of Proportion of Option Proportion of Merger Synergies Award Vesting exercisable Contingent Cash achieved in the including any part including any part Award payable Financial Year to of the Award which of the Option which including any part of the 31 March 2006 and has already vested has already become Contingent Cash Award 31 March 2007 exercisable which has already become payable Below 7,500,000 Nil Nil Nil 7,500,000 15% 7.5% 7.5% Between 7,500,000 and 15% to 100% 7.5% to 50% 7.5% to 50% 12,000,000 pro rata pro rata pro rata 12,000,000 or above 100% 50% 50% 14 For the avoidance of doubt, the proportion of an Award which has vested on achievement of Financial Year to 31 March 2006 targets cannot be clawed back in the event that the proportion vesting based on the aggregate target for the Financial Years to 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2007 is at a level below that which has already vested.
15 Annualised merger synergies will be calculated as the gross cost savings in the Group from actions consequent on the Merger taken post 30 September 2004 measured against the costs of the business within Capital Radio Group plc and GWR Group plc for the periods to 30 September 2004.
Areas in which savings have been identified include staff costs, premises costs, IT costs, interest cost on working capital, and the Directors of the Company are being updated regularly as such savings are achieved.
At 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2007, the Remuneration Committee will review the savings schedule and access advice from the auditors as to whether the sum has been appropriately calculated.
The Remuneration Committee will have the final decision as to what savings fall into the definition of annualised merger synergies.
16 No re-testing of the performance criteria will occur.
82 Expected value 17 Whilst the Scheme will provide a participant with rights over shares for no or negligible payment, the value of the shares placed under award does not represent the value of that award to a participant, in view of the risks of forfeiture due to the cessation of employment or failure of the Company to achieve the stretching performance targets.
18 The payout from these awards will depend on the share price at vesting and the level of Annualised Merger Synergies.
The full amount of the award 100% of base salary at the date of award will vest only if the aggregate Annualised Merger Synergies have reached 6,000,000 and 12,000,000 by 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2007 respectively.
Award price 19 The award price shall be determined by the Remuneration Committee.
It is anticipated to be nil except in the case of an award where it has been determined that the option will be satisfied by the issue of shares directly to the award holder, in which case the amount payable per share shall not be less than the nominal value of a share.
Flexibility has been retained for the award price to be set at any other value for example at the market value of a share.
Variation of share capital 20 Upon any variation of the share capital of the Company, whether by way of a capitalisation issue other than a capitalisation issue in substitution for or as an alternative to a cash dividend, a rights issue, a bonus issue, a rights offer or any sub-division, consolidation, reduction or other variation of the Companys share capital, the award price and or the number of shares comprised in an award may be adjusted in such manner as the Remuneration Committee determines.
Vesting of awards 21 An award will vest only after announcement of the Companys results for each of the financial years ending 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2007 except in the following circumstances: a Where the participant ceases to be employed by the Group as a result of death, injury, disability, ill health, redundancy or retirement, or as a result of the Company or part of the business by which a participant was employed ceasing to be a member or part of the Group a good leaver, a proportion of the award will vest in the absolute discretion of the Remuneration Committee taking into account such factors as they consider relevant including, but not limited to, achievement of the performance targets and time elapsed from the date of award as at the date of cessation of employment.
a An option ordinarily lapses if it has not been exercised within 6 months or 12 months in the case of cessation of employment as a result of death of the date on which employment ceases for a good leaver unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise.
b If a participant ceases to be employed by the Group for any other reason, the award will lapse unless the Remuneration Committee, in its absolute discretion, determines otherwise.
In this case, the proportion of the award which shall vest will be determined in the absolute discretion of the Remuneration Committee taking into account such factors as they consider relevant including, but not limited to, achievement of the performance targets and time elapsed from the date of award as at the date of cessation of employment.
c Additionally, in the event of a takeover, reconstruction, amalgamation or winding up of the Company, a proportion of the awards will vest immediately in the absolute discretion of the Remuneration Committee taking into account such factors as they consider relevant including, but not limited to, the achievement of the performance targets and time elapsed as at the date of the event in question.
If the acquiring company agrees, the award may be exchanged for an award over shares in the acquiring company.
d The Remuneration Committee may, where it considers it likely that an event in c will take place in addition declare that awards will vest during a limited period prior to the relevant event typically in order to preserve the Companys entitlement to corporation tax deductions in respect of such events.
83 Pensionability 22 Awards under the Scheme will not be pensionable.
Source of shares and employee trust 23 The Scheme allows the use of newly issued shares and shares acquired on market either through the medium of an employee benefit trust or the holding of shares in treasury.
Dividend roll up 24 If dividends have been paid in respect of the Companys shares during the vesting period, the Remuneration Committee may at its discretion determine that amounts equivalent to such dividends will be payable to an award holder in shares or cash following vesting based on the number of shares that vest, subject to the deduction of any applicable income tax and social security contributions.
Amendments to the Interim Merger Scheme 25 The Scheme may at any time be amended.
However the provisions in the Scheme relating to: a eligibility to participate in the Scheme: b limits on the number of new shares which may be issued pursuant to the Scheme: c the maximum entitlement of individual participants under the Scheme: and d the basis for determining a participants entitlement to benefit under the Scheme and the price of the shares to be provided, and for the adjustment thereof, if any, in the event of a capitalisation issue other than a capitalisation issue in substitution for or as an alternative to a cash dividend, rights issue, bonus issue or rights offer or any sub-division or consolidation of shares or reduction of capital or any other variation of capital: will not be altered to confer any additional advantage on any participants without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting except for minor amendments to benefit the administration of the Scheme, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants, the Company or a member of the Group.
Additionally, no amendment can be made which would adversely affect the rights of participants without their consent.
84 On 9 May 2005, Capital Radio merged with GWR creating GCap Media plc.
To find out more please visit: www.
com Enquiries: Enquiries: This document is available Designed and produced by GCap Media plc Finsbury Group via the Internet at Wechsler Ross & Portet.
com David Mansfield Rupert Younger Chief Executive Alice McAndrew Printed in the UK by Wendy Pallot St Ives Westerham Press.
Finance Director Telephone: 020 7251 3801 Jane Wilson Communications Director Telephone: 020 7766 6194 GCap Media plc formerly Capital Radio plc Report and Accounts for the pre merger period 1 October 2004 to 31 March 2005 GCap Media plc formerly Capital Radio plc Report and Accounts for the pre merger period 1 October 2004 to 31 March 2005 www.
