Appendix 2 Summary of the principal features of the GCap Media plc Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme the DABS Introduction 1 A summary of the main features of the DABS is set out below, together with details of the way in which the DABS is intended to operate.
The DABS will be supervised by the Remuneration Committee.
2 The DABS will be operated in conjunction with the Groups annual bonus arrangements.
The Remuneration Committee will require or invite employees to acquire shares in GCap Media plc the Company from a proportion of their annual bonus and lodge such shares for the purposes of the DABS.
3 Participants who are required or invited to lodge such shares the Lodged Shares may receive an award the DABS Award enabling them to acquire additional matching shares at the end of a performance period subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, continued employment and based on the number of Lodged Shares which have been acquired.
4 The DABS Awards will be made as either nil cost or nominal cost share options or contingent share awards.
It is intended that the first DABS Awards expected in 2006 in respect of bonuses arising for the financial year ended 31 March 2006 will be made as nil cost or nominal cost share options.
More information on the award price is contained in paragraph 25 below.
Employee eligibility 5 Notifications invitations to acquire Lodged Shares and receive DABS Awards will be offered to selected Executive Directors and employees of the group.
Participation limits 6 Participants will be required or invited to acquire Lodged Shares using a percentage of their net post tax eligible annual bonus.
On the first operation of the DABS it is expected that 35% of a participants net post tax eligible annual bonus must be used to acquire Lodged Shares.
7 The number of matching shares which may be awarded to a participant will be limited to 200% by number of the shares lodged by the participant meaning that for every one Lodged Share, the participant may be awarded a maximum of two Matching Shares.
Shareholder dilution 8 The DABS contains limits on the number of new shares to be issued under the DABS.
These limits apply to both DABS Awards and awards made under all other employee share schemes operated by the Group.
Awards which have lapsed or been renounced are disregarded.
Shares which have been purchased in the market, including any so purchased and held by trustees of an employee benefit trust for the purpose of satisfying DABS Awards are disregarded.
The reissue of treasury shares will be treated as a new issue of shares.
9 The Remuneration Committee will ensure that appropriate policies regarding the timing and amount of DABS Awards exist in order to spread the potential issue of new shares over the life of the DABS.
10 The dilution limits are as follows: All schemes limit The rules of the DABS provide that no more than 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, from time to time, should be issued under all share incentive schemes operated by the Group in any rolling ten year period.
Executive discretionary schemes limit The rules of the DABS provide that no more than 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, from time to time, should be issued under all executive discretionary share incentive schemes operated by the Group in any rolling ten year period.
76 Making of DABS Awards 11 DABS Awards can only be granted in the period of 42 days beginning on the Dealing Day following the date on which the DABS is adopted by the Company in General Meeting, or following the announcement of the Companys interim or final results, or at other times if the Remuneration Committee considers there are exceptional circumstances.
12 No DABS Award may be granted to a participant during a period proscribed for dealings in shares by directors or certain employees of the Group whether by the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority or otherwise, except where this is permitted under the Model Code or the Companys own code or insider dealing.
13 A DABS Award will be personal to the participant and not transferable other than on death when it can be exercised by the participants personal representatives.
14 No DABS Award can be granted more than 10 years after adoption of the DABS and no DABS Award can be granted to an employee less than six months before the date on which he is bound or entitled to retire under the terms of his contract of employment Performance targets 15 At the time of grant of a DABS Award the Remuneration Committee will set performance targets which must be satisfied before it can vest.
16 Performance targets once set will not be amended unless an event occurs which causes the Remuneration Committee to consider that an amended target would be a fairer measure of performance and is not materially less difficult to satisfy.
17 The Remuneration Committees overall policy is to make awards under the DABS using performance conditions and target levels which are believed to be stretching and provide value to the participants commensurate with the performance achieved.
The policy when deciding on performance measures is to use measures the participants can by their actions influence, in order to provide effective motivation.
The policy is to make DABS Awards annually and, as has been mentioned above, to ensure that the targets are set at the time of award with regard to prevailing conditions and that all the equity incentive arrangements in which an employee participates are considered as one whole.
18 It is the intention of the Remuneration Committee that the first DABS Awards will be subject to the following performance target: Percentage growth in the Companys earnings per share over the three year period from Percentage of DABS Award vesting 31 March 2006 to 31 March 2009 Less than 6% per annum compounded None of the DABS Award vests 11% per annum compounded 50% of DABS Award vests Between 6% and 11% per annum compounded DABS Award vests proportionately between nil and 50% Between 11% and 16% per annum compounded DABS Award vests proportionately between 50% and 100% 16% per annum compounded or greater 100% of DABS Award vests If 100% of the DABS Award vests, this is equivalent to the maximum two for one matching.
19 No re-testing of the performance criteria will occur.
77 The Lodged Shares 20 The Lodged Shares cannot be forfeited by participants regardless of performance as these have already been earned through the mechanism of the annual bonus scheme and they have been purchased with post-tax income.
Any increases decreases in the value of the Lodged Shares will therefore be received borne by the participants.
21 The Lodged Shares are owned by the participants who shall be entitled to exercise the voting power attaching to those shares and shall be entitled to receive dividends.
Expected value 22 Whilst the DABS will provide a participant with the opportunity to receive shares for no or negligible payment, the value of the shares placed under the DABS Award does not represent the value of that DABS Award to a participant, in view of the risks of forfeiture due to the cessation of employment or failure of the Company to achieve the performance targets.
23 In order to measure the value of DABS Awards the Company has estimated the expected value EV of a DABS Award.
The EV is the present value of the sum of all the various possible outcomes at vesting or exercise of DABS Awards and reflects the probabilities of achieving those outcomes.
24 The Remuneration Committee has sought external independent advice from  LLP as to the EV of the first DABS Award expected in 2006 based on a form of Black-Scholes methodology modified to take into account the performance targets.
 LLP have advised that this first DABS Award would have a value of approximately 57.5% of the maximum face value of the DABS Award or 115% of the maximum face value of the related Lodged Shares.
Award price 25 The award price will be determined by the Remuneration Committee, and it is anticipated to be nil except in the case of an award where the Company has determined that the award will be satisfied by the issue of shares directly to the DABS Award holder in which case the amount payable per share shall not be less than the nominal value of a share.
Flexibility has been retained for the award price to be set at any other value for example at the market value of a share Variation of share capital 26 Upon any variation of the share capital of the Company, whether by way of a capitalisation issue other than a capitalisation issue in substitution for or as an alternative to a cash dividend, a rights issue or any sub-division, consolidation, reduction or other variation of the Companys share capital, the award price and or the number of shares comprised in a DABS Award and or the description of the shares may be adjusted in such manner as the Remuneration Committee determines.
78 Vesting of DABS Awards 27 A DABS Award will vest only at a time or times after the third anniversary of its date of award except in the following circumstances: a Where the participant ceases to be employed by the group as a result of death, injury, disability, ill health, redundancy or retirement, or as a result of the Company or part of the business by which a participant was employed ceasing to be a member or part of the group a good leaver, a proportion of the DABS Award will vest in the absolute discretion of the Remuneration Committee taking into account such factors as they consider relevant including, but not limited to, achievement of the performance targets and time elapsed from the date of award as at the date of cessation of employment.
a An option ordinarily lapses if it has not been exercised within 6 months or 12 months in the case of cessation of employment as a result of death of the date on which employment ceases for a good leaver unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise.
b The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to allow a participants DABS Award to vest in whole or in part if he is transferred to work overseas and as a result would suffer less favourable tax treatment in respect of his DABS Award or become subject to a restriction on his ability to hold or deal in the shares acquired or the sale proceeds received.
c If a participant ceases to be employed by the Group for any other reason prior to the third anniversary of the date of grant of a DABS Award, the DABS Award will lapse unless the Remuneration Committee, in its absolute discretion determines otherwise.
In this case, the proportion of the award which shall vest will be determined in the absolute discretion of the Remuneration Committee taking into account such factors as they consider relevant including, but not limited to, achievement of the performance targets and time elapsed from the date of award as at the date of cessation of employment.
d Additionally, in the event of a takeover, reconstruction, amalgamation or winding up of the Company, a proportion of the DABS Awards will vest immediately in the absolute discretion of the Remuneration Committee taking into account such factors as they consider relevant including, but not limited to, to the achievement of the performance targets and time elapsed from the date of award as at the date of the event in question.
If the acquiring company agrees the DABS Award may be exchanged for an award over shares in the acquiring company.
e The Remuneration Committee may, where it considers it likely that an event in d will take place, in addition declare that awards will vest during a limited period prior to the relevant event typically in order to preserve the Companys entitlement to corporation tax deductions in respect of such events.
Pensionability 28 DABS Awards will not be pensionable.
Source of shares and employee trust 29 The DABS allows the use of newly issued shares and shares acquired on market either through the medium of an employee benefit trust or the holding of shares in treasury.
Dividend roll up 30 If dividends have been paid in respect of the Companys shares during the vesting period, the Remuneration Committee may at its discretion determine that amounts equivalent to such dividends will be payable to an award holder in shares or cash following vesting based on the number of shares that vest, subject to the deduction of any applicable income tax and social security contributions.
79 Amendments to the DABS 31 The DABS may at any time be amended.
However the provisions in the DABS relating to: a eligibility to participate in the DABS: b limits on the number of new shares which may be issued pursuant to DABS Awards: c the maximum entitlement of individual participants to DABS Awards: and d the adjustment of DABS Awards, if any, in the event of a capitalisation issue excluding a capitalisation issue in substitution for or as an alternative to a cash dividend, rights issue, bonus issue, rights offer or any sub-division or consolidation of shares or reduction of capital or any other variation of capital: will not be altered to confer any additional advantage on any participants without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting except for minor amendments to benefit the administration of the DABS, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants, the Company or a member of the Group.
Additionally, no amendment can be made which would adversely affect the rights of participants without their consent.
