Alfred McAlpine plc 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of accounting The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards and law.
The impact of the Company adopting new United Kingdom accounting standards is detailed in note 11.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and preceding year unless otherwise noted.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation, based on estimated useful lives, is charged on a straight line basis as follows: Leasehold improvements over the shorter of the lease term and the useful life of the asset: Plant and equipment at rates between 10% and 33% per annum.
Investments Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries and associates are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
Retirement benefit costs The Company operates a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme whereby the contributions paid by the Company and the employees are invested within the individual funds in the month following the month of deduction.
The employer contribution rates are determined by reference to an age, service or grade related scale or are at a fixed, level percentage.
The amount contributed by the Company is charged to the profit and loss account as the contributions fall due.
The Company also operates a defined benefit pension scheme, which is now closed to future service accrual.
The cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur through the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
The liability recognised on the balance sheet is the present value of the defined benefit obligations less the fair value of plan assets.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Companys liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is calculated based on the laws enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the profit and loss account except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Share-based payments The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 20 Share-based Payment.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, FRS 20 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were not vested at 1 January 2005.
The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees, which are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non market-based vesting conditions at the grant date.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the share-based payments is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Companys estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusting for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured by use of a binomial, Black Scholes or Monte Carlo model as appropriate for each scheme.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Financial risk management The Companys policy for managing financial risk is in line with the Groups financial risk management policy as set out in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
