Financial Statements Accounting Policies Basis of preparation Finance income and costs These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Interest receivable and payable on bank deposits and borrowings is credited International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRIC interpretations or charged to finance costs as incurred.
and with those parts of the Companies Act, 1985 applicable to companies Notional interest payable, representing the unwinding of the discount reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under on long term liabilities, is charged to finance costs.
A summary of the more important accounting policies is set out below.
Infrequently a long term land creditor is for a parcel, or parcels, of land where the Group has exchanged unconditional contracts, and so recognised The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally the creditor and the land inventory, but in practice does not have title or accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and access to the land.
In those few cases the notional interest payable already assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the charged to finance costs is then credited to finance costs and added to the Balance Sheet date and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses cost of inventory in accordance with IAS 23 Borrowing Costs and IAS 2 during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or action, actual Inventories.
In no circumstances will the cost of such land inventory results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
exceed the contracted sum payable.
Since the announcement of the restatement of results under IFRS the Taxation accounting policy on land sales has been amended and prior figures restated.
The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax and deferred tax charges.
The effect is to remove 37.5 million 2004: 29.7 million of land sales revenue The current tax charge is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit and include it, with the associated cost of sales, in net operating expenses differs from profit before taxation recorded in the Income Statement because where the net income of 17.0 million 2004: 9.2 million is separately it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in disclosed.
The restated figures more accurately reflect the core business other years or that are never taxable or deductible.
The liability for current of the Group.
tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted, or substantively Basis of consolidation enacted, by the Balance Sheet date.
The consolidated results incorporate the financial statements of the Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts Company and entities controlled by the Company subsidiaries up to the Balance Sheet date.
of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities Entities which are jointly controlled with another party or parties joint are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits The results of subsidiaries and joint ventures acquired or disposed of during will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be a year are included in the Group Income Statement from the effective date utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Goodwill arising on consolidation Current and deferred tax are charged or credited in the Income Statement, Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the fair except when they relate to items charged or credited through the Statement value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable of Recognised Income and Expense when they are charged or credited there.
Segmental reporting Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least The Group is divided into three components for management reporting annually.
Any impairment is charged immediately to the Income Statement and control: and is not subsequently reversed.
UK housing George Wimpey and Laing Homes brands Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS on 1 January 2004 has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts US housing Morrison Homes brand following impairment tests.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK Corporate GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated.
These components make up the primary segmental analysis in the financial Revenue statements.
No secondary segmental analysis is provided as the primary Revenue from housing sales is recognised as the fair value of the consideration segmental analysis follows the geographical split.
received or receivable on legal completion, net of incentives.
Intangible assets Share-based payments Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and In accordance with its transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all unique software controlled by the Group, and that will generate economic grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 which had not vested benefits beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Computer as of 1 January 2005. software development costs recognised as assets are depreciated on a The Group makes equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
straight line basis over three to five years from the time of going live.
These are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value is Investments in subsidiary undertakings expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
Adjustments to the amounts expensed are only made in respect of non market related factors.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are accounted for at cost less any provision for impairment.
Operating leases Operating lease rentals are charged to the Income Statement in equal Inventories amounts over the lease term.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials, direct labour costs and those overheads Fixed assets and depreciation which have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present Fixed assets are stated at cost less depreciation or amortisation.
Cost in certain circumstances also includes is provided on all fixed assets other than freehold land at rates calculated to notional interest as explained in the accounting policy for finance income write off the cost of each asset to its residual value evenly over its expected and costs.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less useful life as follows: all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing Freehold buildings over 50 years and selling.
Short leaseholds over the period of the lease Land inventory is recognised at the time a liability is recognised generally Plant and equipment 20% to 33% per annum.
after exchange of unconditional contracts.
co. uk 47 Accounting Policies continued Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry interest and are stated at their initial value reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Derivative financial instruments Derivatives utilised by the Group are primarily interest rate swaps.
Derivatives are initially accounted and measured at fair value on the date of the derivative contract and subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Gains or losses on interest rate swaps are taken direct to finance costs in the Income Statement.
Trade payables Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Trade payables on extended terms, particularly in respect of land purchases, are recorded at their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the Cash Flow Statements includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are included within financial liabilities in current liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
Pensions The Group accounts for pensions and similar benefits under the amended IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The amended standard is only mandatory for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2006, but earlier application is encouraged.
For defined benefit plans, obligations are measured at discounted present value whilst plan assets are recorded at market value.
The operating and financing costs of such plans are recognised separately in the Income Statement: service costs are spread systematically over the lives of the employees and financing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full through the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged to the Income Statement as they become due.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity share capital.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are charged to the share premium account.
Where any Group company purchases ordinary shares of the Company Treasury shares the consideration paid, including any incremental costs, is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity shareholders.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at closing rates of exchange.
On consolidation, the Income Statements of overseas subsidiary entities are translated at an average rate for the year and the Balance Sheets at the closing rate.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of opening Balance Sheets, together with the difference between Income Statements translated at average rates and closing rates, are dealt with through reserves.
The Group designates its US$ borrowings as a hedge of the investments in the US Housing business.
Gains and losses on the retranslation of foreign currency borrowings to Sterling are taken direct to reserves.
48 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
