Shareholder Information Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the twenty eighth Annual General Meeting b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above of George Wimpey Plc will be held on 20 April 2006 at 11.30 am at of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 4,960,646: The Royal College of Physicians, 11 St Andrews Place, Regents Park, and shall expire, unless previously revoked or varied, at the conclusion London NW1 4LE, for the following purposes: of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of Ordinary Business this resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry make an 1 To receive and consider the Report of the Directors and Accounts for the offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be year ended 31 December 2005. allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby 2 That a final dividend of 11.9 pence per share in respect of the year had not expired.
ended 31 December 2005 be and is hereby declared due and payable on 12 May 2006 to shareholders on the register at close of business on Companys authority to purchase its own shares 3 March 2006, such final dividend to be payable only in respect of such 11 To resolve as a special resolution: of the shares which the relevant holder of the shares has not exercised That the Company be and it is hereby generally and unconditionally any entitlement to receive new shares instead of a dividend in cash authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section pursuant to the scrip dividend scheme.
163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of not more than 39,685,172 ordinary shares of 25 pence each in its share capital at a price not less than To reappoint the following Directors who are retiring by rotation: 25 pence per share and not more than 5% above the average of the 3 John Robinson middle market quotations for the ordinary shares in the Company taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business 4 David Williams days immediately preceding the day on which such shares are contracted and to reappoint the following Directors who were appointed by the Board to be purchased in each case exclusive of any expenses provided that since the last Annual General Meeting: the authority hereby conferred shall expire, unless previously revoked or varied, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the 5 Anthony Reading Company to be held after the passing of this resolution except that 6 Robert Sharpe the Company may make a contract to purchase its own shares under the 7 Steve Parker authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority, which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and 8 To resolve as an ordinary resolution: may make a purchase of its own shares in pursuance of any such contract.
That  LLP be and are hereby reappointed auditors of the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next Special Business general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company, and Remuneration Report to authorise the Audit Committee to fix their remuneration on behalf 12 To resolve as an ordinary resolution: of the Board.
To approve the Remuneration Report contained within the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Directors authority to allot shares 9 To resolve as an ordinary resolution: Amendment of the Articles of Association concerning Directors indemnities That the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally 13 To resolve as a special resolution: authorised in substitution for all previous authorities conferred upon them That the Companys Articles of Association be and they are hereby to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within amended with immediate effect by: the meaning of section 80 2 of the Companies Act 1985 up to an a the deletion of existing Article 156 and the substitution therefor of the aggregate nominal value of 33,070,976, provided that this authority following new Article 156: shall expire, unless previously revoked or varied, at the conclusion of the 156.
Directors indemnity next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this Subject to the Statutes, the Company may indemnify any Director of resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer the Company or any associated company as defined in the Statutes or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be against any liability and allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred b the deletion of the words or other officer in lines 2 and 3 of existing hereby had not expired.
Article 157 and the deletion of the word officer in the final line of Disapplication of pre-emption rights existing Article 157: and 10 To resolve as a special resolution: c the addition of the following sentence at the end of existing Article 92: That the Directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to The Company may also fund a Directors expenditure on defending section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities within proceedings as provided by the Statutes.
the meaning of section 94 2 of the Companies Act 1985 for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by the resolution numbered 9 above and to sell treasury shares wholly for cash pursuant to section 94 3A of the Companies Act 1985, as if sub-section 1 of section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue, open offer or any other pre-emptive offer or a scrip dividend alternative in each case in favour of ordinary shareholders excluding any shareholder holding shares as treasury shares where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective number of ordinary shares held or deemed to be held by them, and subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements, legal or practical problems arising in any overseas territory, the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter whatsoever: and www.
co. uk 73 Notice of Meeting continued Explanation of Resolutions up to 5% of the nominal value of the Companys issued share capital Ordinary Business as at the date of the Notice, i. e. 4,960,646.
Resolution 1: To Receive the Directors Report and Accounts Resolution 11: To Empower the Company to Make Market Purchases The Directors are required to present to the meeting the Directors and of its Shares Auditors Reports and the Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005.
This resolution is intended to renew the authority of the Directors, granted Resolution 2: To Approve a Dividend at the Annual General Meeting in 2005, to make market purchases of shares The proposed 2005 final dividend of 11.9 pence per share will be paid on within a 10% limit, in accordance with Article 53 of the Companys Articles of 12 May 2006 to shareholders who are on the register on 3 March 2006.
The Board has no present intention of exercising this authority.
final dividend will be paid in cash to all shareholders other than those who Moreover, purchases will only be made if they would result in an expected exercise their right to receive shares instead of their cash dividend pursuant increase in earnings per share, taking into account other available investment to the scrip dividend scheme, details of which are set out on page 31 of the opportunities, and will be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Any shares purchased in accordance with this authority will subsequently Resolution 3 4: To Reappoint John Robinson and David Williams be cancelled or they may be held in treasury pursuant to the Companies The Articles of Association require one third of the Directors who are subject Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003.
These to retirement by rotation to retire at each Annual General Meeting.
However, regulations allow the Company to hold its own shares in treasury following if their number is not a multiple of three, the number nearest to but not a buy back as an alternative to cancelling them.
Holding bought back shares exceeding one third shall retire from office.
In line with the Combined Code in treasury provides the Company with the ability to sell or transfer them each Director also seeks reappointment every three years.
The Directors to quickly and effectively and also provides flexibility in using such shares for retire by rotation shall be those who have been longest in office since their employees schemes.
If any such shares are used, the Company will, so last appointment or reappointment.
Any new Directors appointed during the long as required under the guidelines of the Association of British Insurers year by the Board must, in accordance with the Articles of Association, seek Investment Committee, count them towards the limits in the schemes reappointment at the next Annual General Meeting and shall not be taken as if they were newly issued shares.
into account in determining the Directors or the number of Directors who are to retire by rotation.
Accordingly, at the forthcoming Annual General All rights attaching to the shares, including voting rights and the right Meeting two Directors will be required to retire by way of rotation.
to receive dividends, will be suspended whilst they are held in treasury.
John Robinson and David Williams, being the longest standing Directors Options were outstanding as at 13 February 2006 to subscribe for a total since their appointment or reappointment, will therefore retire and offer number of 7,432,054 ordinary shares, or 1.9% of the Companys issued themselves for reappointment at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
If the authority to purchase shares is ever used in full and Resolution 5: To Reappoint Anthony Reading the purchased shares cancelled, the proportion of issued share capital The Articles of Association permit the Board to appoint a person to the Board represented by this figure would be 2.1%.
during the year, subject to them being reappointed at the subsequent Annual General Meeting.
Special Business Resolution 12: To Approve the Remuneration Report of the Company Anthony Reading was appointed to the Board on 15 April 2005 and offers In accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 himself for reappointment in accordance with the Articles of Association.
the Board is required to present the Remuneration Report to shareholders Resolution 6: To Reappoint Robert Sharpe for approval at the Meeting.
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 36 Robert Sharpe was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2005 and offers to 42 of the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December himself for reappointment in accordance with the Articles of Association.
The Board considers that appropriate executive remuneration plays a Resolution 7: To Reappoint Steve Parker vital part in helping to achieve the Companys overall objectives.
The vote Steve Parker was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2006 and offers will have advisory status in respect of the remuneration policy and overall himself for reappointment in accordance with the Articles of Association.
remuneration packages and is not specific to individual levels of remuneration.
Directors biographical details, including those seeking reappoinment, are Resolution 13: To Amend the Articles of Association concerning shown on page 30 of the Annual Report.
These include dates of appointment, Directors indemnities ages, career histories, current directorships and other significant appointments.
The law governing the extent to which the Company may indemnify and The Board recommends the reappointment of the above Directors.
insure directors of the Company or an associated company set out in the Companies Act 1985 was amended on 6 April 2005 by the Companies Resolution 8: To Reappoint  LLP as Auditors Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004.
Article 156 This resolution proposes that  LLP be reappointed as of the Companys current Articles of Association closely tracks the former auditors, and authorises the Audit Committee to fix their remuneration on behalf of the Board.
provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
Resolutions 9 10: To Allot Shares and Disapply Pre-Emption Rights Resolution 13 proposes to amend Article 156 to remove any inconsistencies Under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, the Directors cannot generally with the new law and simply empower but not require the Company to allot unissued shares in the Company unless they are authorised to do so by indemnify a Director subject to the Companies Act 1985.
Article 156 currently the Company in general meeting.
Resolution 9 will authorise the Directors to also expressly permits the Company to indemnify the Companys auditors, issue new shares up to the lower of one third of the amount of the nominal which continues to be lawful following the change of law, but this power value of the issued share capital of the Company calculated excluding any will not be retained in the revised Article 156 since it is now not in line with treasury shares as at the date of this Notice i. e. up to a value of 33,070,976 the expectations of the investor protection committees.
The indemnification or the amount of the nominal value of the authorised but unissued share and insurance of officers who are not directors or auditors is no longer capital of the Company.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the subject to the Companies Act 1985 so removal of references to officers next Annual General Meeting.
As at the date of this Notice, the Company in Article 157 is proposed to remove inconsistencies with the current law.
does not hold any treasury shares.
The Directors have no present intention Resolution 13 will also make a related amendment to Article 92, which of issuing shares, except as needed to satisfy the exercise of options under sets out the circumstances in which Directors are entitled to be paid their the Companys Employee Share Schemes and the allotment of shares expenses by the Company, by adding an express reference to the Companys pursuant to such elections made by shareholders of the Company.
ability, also introduced by the Companies Audit, Investigations and Under Resolution 10, the Directors will remain subject to constraints on the Community Enterprise Act 2004, to fund Directors expenditure in defending issue of shares for cash unless the issue takes place pro rata to existing legal proceedings by way of a loan, which is repayable if the proceedings are shareholders.
They will be able to issue such shares for cash only: not ultimately decided in the Directors favour.
Previously, companies were in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other pre-emptive offer only able to fund a Directors defence costs once final judgment in the or a scrip dividend alternative, or Directors favour had been reached.
74 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Shareholder Information Directors are increasingly being added as defendants in legal actions against A proxy need not be a shareholder and may attend and vote on behalf of the companies and litigation is often very lengthy and expensive.
The Board shareholder who appointed him or her.
believes that the provision of appropriate indemnities and the funding At the Meeting, the proxy can act for the member he or she represents.
This of Directors defence costs as they are incurred, as permitted by the new includes the right to join in or demand a poll, but it does not include the legislation, are reasonable protection for the Directors, and are important to right to vote on a show of hands.
The proxy is also valid for any adjournment ensure that the Company continues to attract and retain the highest calibre of the Meeting.
Please tick the appropriate box alongside each resolution on the Form By Order of the Board of Proxy to indicate whether you wish your votes to be cast for, or against, or whether you wish to withhold your vote from, that resolution.
Unless you give specific instructions on how to vote on a particular resolution, your proxy will be able, at his or her discretion, either to vote for or against that resolution or to withhold your vote.
James J Jordan Before posting the form to the Registrar, please check that you have signed it.
Group Company Secretary and General Counsel In the case of joint holders, either or any one of you may sign it.
George Wimpey Plc As stated above, the Forms of Proxy must be received in the offices of the Manning House Companys Registrars no later than 11:30 am on 18 April 2006.
Any Form 22 Carlisle Place of Proxy received after this time will be void.
A member entitled to attend and vote at this Meeting may appoint a proxy to attend and vote instead of him or her.
The proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Instruments appointing proxies must be received by the Companys Registrars Action to be taken not less than 48 hours before the time fixed for the Meeting.
Whether or not you intend to attend the Annual General Meeting, you iii.
Contracts of Service with Directors and the Register of Directors Interests will are requested to complete the enclosed Form of Proxy and return it to the be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during usual Companys Registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West business hours between the date of this Notice and the Annual General Meeting Sussex BN99 6AU as soon as possible and in any event so as to be received and at the venue of the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to the no later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the Annual General commencement of the meeting and until its conclusion.
Meeting, that is no later than 11:30 am on 18 April 2006.
A copy of the full Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December and submission of a Form of Proxy will not prevent you from attending 2005, including the Remuneration Report referred to in Resolutions 1 and 12 and voting in person if you so wish.
respectively, is also available on www.
co. uk v. As permitted by Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, In conjunction with its Registrars, the Company has again provided the only those shareholders who are registered on the Companys share register at facility to allow each shareholder to register proxy votes electronically.
6:00 pm on 18 April 2006 shall be entitled to attend the Annual General Meeting Detailed information of how to do this is set out on the Form of and to vote in respect of the number of shares registered in their names at that Proxy Admission Card.
You can register your proxy votes electronically time.
Changes to entries on the share register after 6:00 pm on 18 April 2006 by either logging on to our Registrars website, www.
co. uk and shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
following the instructions, or, if your shareholding is uncertificated, by registering your proxy votes using the service launched by CRESTCo, principally to streamline the process for institutional investors.
Recommendation Your Directors are of the opinion that the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole and recommend you to vote in favour of them.
Each Director will be doing so in respect of his or her own beneficial shareholdings.
Attendance and voting As a shareholder of George Wimpey Plc, you have the right to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
Please bring with you the accompanying Form of Proxy Admission Card and retain it until the end of the Meeting.
It will authenticate your right to attend, speak and vote, and will help us to register your attendance without delay.
Registration will be available from 9:30 am.
For the safety and comfort of those attending the Meeting, large bags, cameras, recording equipment and similar items will not be allowed into the building.
The Meeting will commence at 11:30 am and light refreshments will be available from 11:00 am and also after the conclusion of the Meeting.
You are advised to bring your Annual Report with you to the Meeting so that you can refer to it as necessary.
If you do not wish, or are unable, to attend, you may appoint either the Chairman of the Meeting or someone else of your choice to act on your behalf and to vote in the event of a poll.
That person is known as a proxy.
You are advised to use the enclosed Form of Proxy to appoint a proxy or to vote electronically as outlined above and in more detail on the enclosed Form of Proxy.
