Shareholder Information Shareholder Information Financial Highlights Annual General Meeting Private Shareholders 2005 2004 % Change 20 April 2006 11:30am at If you have a query about your holding of George Wimpey Plc shares or Group profit before tax 366.5m 437.6m 16% The Royal College of Physicians, need to change your details, for example address or payment of dividend Group operating profit 437.5m 497.5m 12% 11 St Andrews Place, Regents Park, London NW1 4LE.
requirements, please contact the Registrars at the address shown.
UK housing 278.0m 409.4m 32% Results Website 2005 year end results 21 February 2006 Further details of the Groups activities and products can be seen on its US housing $308.3m $188.3m 64% 2006 half year results 1 August 2006 website at www.
Services available include: Operating margins Dividends email alert service UK housing 12.9% 18.0% Final Dividend subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, download Company reports US housing 20.0% 14.7% a final recommended dividend of 11.9 pence will be payable on 12 May 2006 to ordinary shareholders whose names appear in the access press releases Group ROACE 22.3% 28.9% register of members at the close of business on 3 March 2006. download investor presentations UK housing 17.3% 28.3% The ex-dividend date is 1 March 2006. view investor presentation via webcasts US housing 44.2% 33.9% Interim dividend dates to be announced in July 2006. interactive share price charting tool Dividends Once these dates have been approved they will be displayed on our Dividend per share 17.6p 16.0p 10% website www.
co. uk view analysts forecasts Dividend cover 3.7x 4.9x The scrip dividend scheme introduced by the Company in 2002 continues Group Company Secretary and Registered Ofce to be available to shareholders.
For more information, please contact James Jordan Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Manning House 22 Carlisle Place Shareholders Services London The Company continues to encourage private shareholders.
SW1P 1JA Shareview dealing email: jjordan@georgewimpey.
co. uk On the Companys behalf, Lloyds TSB Registrars operate a phone or internet Tel: 44 0 20 7802 9888 based low cost share sales service in George Wimpey Plc shares.
The telephone service is available on 0870 850 0852 and the internet based Registered Number Turnover Operating profit profit before tax # m m m service at the website, www.
1397926 3,000 500 500 Postal share dealing service Registrars JPMorgan Cazenove Limited also offer a low cost postal share dealing service Lloyds TSB Registrars 2,400 400 400 on behalf of the Company.
The Causeway Worthing For any further details on either service please contact the Group Company West Sussex 1,800 300 300 Secretary at the Registered Ofce or by telephone on BN99 6DA 44 0 20 7802 9888.
Tel: 0870 600 3970 1,200 200 200 Corporate Individual Savings Account ISA George Wimpey has a corporate-sponsored ISA through The Share Centre.
You can see more details of your shareholding on Lloyds TSB Registrars For further information, please contact The Share Centre directly on website on www.
Investor Relations Contact More information can be found on the website www.
com Terri Wright 0 0 0 email: twright@georgewimpey.
co. uk 01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 04 05 01 02 03 04 04 05 The Share Centre, an independent stockbroker, is a member rm of the Tel: 44 0 20 7802 9888 UK GAAP IFRS UK GAAP IFRS London Stock Exchange and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority under reference 146768.
George Wimpey Plc is a public limited company listed on the London Stock Exchange and domiciled in England.
ShareGift Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which makes it uneconomic to sell them, may wish to consider donating them to charity Basic earnings per share Dividend per share Shareholders funds per share through ShareGift, a registered charity administered by The Orr Mackintosh pence pence pence 100 20 400 Foundation.
A ShareGift donation form can be obtained from Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Further information about ShareGift is available at Published by Black Sun Plc www.
org or by writing to: ShareGift, The Orr Mackintosh Photography by Richard Olivier 80 16 320 Foundation, 24 Grosvenor Gardens, London SW1W 0DH.
Printed by Royle Corporate Print 60 12 240 40 8 160 20 4 80 0 0 0 01 02 03 04 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 04 05 UK GAAP IFRS UK GAAP IFRS restated for IFRS # restated for change in land sales policy before exceptional costs of 5.9 million in 2002 and 28.9 million in 2001 www.
co. uk George Wimpey Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 05 Meeting the challenge Chairmans and Chief Executives Introduction We are committed to responsible corporate behaviour We are delighted to introduce George Wimpeys fourth CSR Report.
During 2005 we developed our CSR practices and processes further to ensure that we full our duty to behave as a responsible Company.
We take this responsibility seriously, not just because we have to but because we believe it is the right way to run our business.
Contents Group Overview o responsible p2 Financial highlights and details of Group operations Our Progress r p4 Details of 2005 achievements and We are proud to report that George Wimpey is KPIs major targets for 2006 the first publicly listed housebuilder to achieve IS0 Transparent reporting and continuous monitoring 14001:2004 certication for all of its UK operations.
and review of our CSR activities and our key Vision, Values and Governance This is a tremendous achievement and a clear performance indicators KPIs are vital if we are to p6 demonstration that we are committed to behaving achieve our CSR targets.
As promised last year, in Our approach responsibly towards the environment: controlling line with our CSR framework, we have introduced to CSR, ethics and governance the impact of our activities and continually a new section on supply chain management improving our performance in the future.
We have continued to measure Health and Safety ourselves and report on the KPIs set out in our Building sustainable communities first CSR report in 2002 and once again, in all key p10 We have made further steps in meeting the Health and safety areas, we have set ourselves clear targets for 2006. challenges of sustainable development.
During management, initiatives the year we introduced our Sustainability Policy, Going forward and performance which clearly sets out our approach and intentions We remain committed to being a responsive in meeting the key criteria in this area.
We were Company and seek to engage with a wide range Environment delighted that our efforts were recognised during of stakeholders as we develop our plans for the p12 the year in the second Insight Investment and future.
As such we are keen to seek feedback on Environmental management, initiatives WWF survey of the sustainability practices of UK this report from all who read it, so your comments and performance housebuilders.
The survey report described George would be welcomed.
Wimpey as one of three clear leaders, placing us Since we embarked on the CSR path we believe Building Sustainable third overall, but first in the environment section we have made considerable progress, however, we Communities of the survey.
still have a long way to go.
At the same time we p16 We also won through to the final of the recognise that the challenges and emphases are Our approach to creating sustainable homes and UK Governments Design for Manufacture constantly changing and developing and we must communities competition.
Our success in this competition continue to be responsive and innovative demonstrates our commitment to working in our approach to all we do.
We believe that by Employees with the Government on their priority areas doing so we will make George Wimpey a stronger p24 of sustainability, design excellence, modern and better Company.
How we treat our methods of construction and affordability.
employees and what they think of us Customer Care p26 Our approach to customer service John Robinson, Chairman and satisfaction Supply Chain Management p28 How we treat and work with our suppliers and sub-contractors Peter Johnson, Group Chief Executive Key Performance Indicators p29 Annual performance From left to right data for comparison over time Peter Johnson John Robinson www.
co. uk 1 Group Overview We have unparalleled experience in the housing industry UK Housebuilding Our Businesses Our 26 regional businesses in the UK give our operations significant scale and truly national geographic coverage.
Each business unit provides a range of products from one bedroom apartments and starter homes to large detached family homes.
Our UK homes are sold under two distinct brands: the core George Wimpey brand and the Laing Homes brand.
The Laing Homes brand has previously been used solely in the South East and Midlands but going forward all our businesses will have the opportunity to use both brands.
This will allow better use of large sites and provide greater returns on future land purchases.
With 125 years experience, we have an unparalleled record in our industry.
We have operations in the UK and US employing over 6,000 people.
We aim to be the housebuilder of choice for our customers, our employees, our shareholders and for the communities in which we operate.
US Housebuilding In the US, our Morrison Homes brand operates in 14 of the strongest housing markets across five states from California to Florida.
In recent years Morrison Homes has gone from strength to strength, building on its reputation for delivering quality homes with outstanding levels of customer service.
The business continues to experience rapid growth, delivering 4,921 homes in 2005, with operating profits more than trebling over the past five years.
Morrison builds a range of traditional single family homes and more compact attached townhomes.
Morrison is set to achieve further growth over the next few years, benefiting from its position in the strongest US housing Divisional ofces Satellite ofces markets and by developing its successful satellite business model into three new markets.
US Completions US Completions US Average Selling Price $000s 5 300 4 240 3 180 2005 Awards 2 120 Awards received by George Wimpey and Morrison Homes during 1 60 2005 include: West 1,187 24% 0 0 Housing Design Awards Southeast 2,253 46% 01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 Project Winner and Large Housebuilder Winner Southwest 1,481 30% Building for Life Silver Award Housebuilding Innovation Awards Best Community Consultation Basic Earnings per Share Dividend per Share Shareholders Funds per Share pence pence pence Construction Manager of the Year Gold Medal won by Pierce Browne 75 20 350 of George Wimpey West Midlands NHBC Pride in the Job Awards 60 16 280 50 Quality Awards and 6 Seals of Excellence 45 12 210 Evening Standard New Homes Awards Best New Family Home 30 8 140 Your New Home Awards Best Development for Family Living 15 4 70 Daily Express New Homes Garden Awards 0 0 0 Gold and Silver Awards 01 02 03 04 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 04 05 UK GAAP IFRS UK GAAP IFRS Homes for Scotland Awards Customer Service Award and four Commendations restated for IFRS before exceptional costs of 5.9m in 2002 and 28.9m in 2001 Excellence in Energy Performance Awards, Texas Winner www.
co. uk 3 32.8 2,900 52.2 3,197 68.5 3,661 80.8 4,422 78.4 4,921 64.3 8.25 9.1 12.25 16.0 17.6 210 238 250 252 304 270 368 289 340 313 389 Our Progress 2005 has been another year of excellent progress Key 2005 achievements Major 2006 targets Developed new Sustainability Policy Continue to measure, monitor, report Vision, Values and on and improve CSR performance Governance Ran poster campaign and undertook survey Develop UK sub-contractor safety awareness Health and Safety of trades and contractors views of on-site campaign as a result of survey safety in the UK Continue to reduce the incident rates of Introduced annual safety audit of major and notiable accidents in the UK communities and new safety award and US scheme in the US Achieved ISO 14001:2004 certication in Survey remaining UK suppliers on Environment the UK sustainability issues Conducted a sustainability survey of major Reduce UK construction waste to landll UK suppliers and developed a Green by 10% Procurement Policy Selected as one of the preferred developers Review final Code for Sustainable Homes Building Sustainable in the UK Design for Manufacture and develop methods and products to Communities competition improve performance Won Best Community Consultation in Complete first developments targeted the Housebuilding Innovation Awards at first time buyers and key workers 1,366 of our UK employees received Work towards all UK site employees being Employees Construction Skills Certication Scheme fully carded under the CSCS by 2010 CSCS qualication Focus on employee retention and Set up Employee Consultation Committees leadership training in the US in all UK companies Started to train UK suppliers and Continue to roll out UK customer care Customer Care sub-contractors on customer care campaign to sub-contractors and suppliers Developed the US Customer Care Continue to enhance US customer Management System CCMS to cover relationships through the website and all stages of customer contact Customer Care Management System Introduced supply chain management Set up a high level working group to Supply Chain as a new section of our CSR Report strengthen supply chain management Management strategy Introduced an internet based vendor portal to provide up to date information for US Continue to develop strong partnerships trade partners with key suppliers and sub-contractors This report covers the Groups operations during the 12 month period ended 31 December 2005 and our major CSR targets for 2006.
It should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report and Accounts 2005.
4 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2005 External recognition One of three clear leaders in sustainability performance In 2005, Insight Investment and conservation organisation WWF published their second survey of the sustainability practices of the 12 leading UK housebuilders.
The report describes George Wimpey as one of three clear leaders who stand out because they take an increasingly 83% comprehensive, strategic and systematic approach in responding to policy and market SCORED IN OVERALL imperatives to deliver sustainable homes and communities.
It states that we have integrated SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE sustainability into our business strategies and can provide numerous examples of good practice on a range of issues at site-level.
The report states that the more strategic approach taken by the leading three companies will enable them to deliver better environmental and social outcomes and add value to their businesses.
Insight Investment and WWF urge other companies to learn 1st from and emulate these leading companies.
HOUSEBUILDER IN TERMS OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT We scored 83% in the survey just short of the two survey leaders scores of 84%.
The survey ranked companies on three aspects of sustainability and we performed almost equally well on all three sets of issues.
We are proud of achieving the highest score of all housebuilders in environment.
We also came second on social issues and fifth on strategy.
We have introduced a 2nd new Sustainability Policy as a result of our discussions with Insight Investment and WWF and are committed to continuous improvement of our sustainability performance.
PLACE IN TERMS OF SOCIAL IMPACT 2005 Highlights 2,404 1st OF OUR UK HOMES BUILT TO ECOHOMES STANDARDS PUBLICLY LISTED UK HOUSEBUILDER TO ACHIEVE ISO 14001:2004 FOR ALL UK OPERATIONS 89% OF OUR UK CUSTOMERS WOULD RECOMMEND US TO FRIENDS AND FAMILY 85% OF OUR US CUSTOMERS WOULD RECOMMEND US 2,342 TO FRIENDS AND FAMILY OF OUR US HOMES BUILT TO ENERGY STAR OR EQUIVALENT STANDARDS www.
co. uk 5 Vision, Values and Governance Securing the long term success of our business 2 3 1 4 5 The CSR Committee 1 Christine Cross, Non Executive Our approach to corporate responsibility helps us to: Director Chair : 2 Baroness Dean of Thornton-le-Fylde, Non Executive Reduce business risk Director: 3 Steve Parker, President, Morrison Homes: 4 Peter Redfern, Chief Executive, George Wimpey UK: Identify opportunities for business development and innovation 5 James Jordan, Group Company Secretary, also attends meetings of Anticipate and comply with new legislation in good time the Committee.
Demonstrate high standards of governance to stakeholders whose opinions and actions can have an impact on our business Attract and retain high calibre employees Save money and protect our reputation by focusing on managing our business effectively at the outset, rather than engaging in expensive or damaging remedial action Win competitive tenders that increasingly require sustainability Stewart Cline was a member of the criteria our success in the recent Design for Manufacture Committee during 2005.
Steve Parker became a member on 1 January 2006. competition is an example of this Appointed Deputy Chief Executive on 21 February 2006.
6 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2005 Corporate responsibility and business ethics are essential elements of good governance and help to secure the long term sustainability of our business.
They also make sound business sense, particularly given the UK Governments increasing emphasis on building sustainable communities.
Sustainable development Ethics Our five core, non negotiable values that underpin everything we do are: We recognise the immense challenges We aim to treat our stakeholders with respect of sustainable development, dened by the and conduct our business with the highest Integrity UK Government as integrating economic, standards of honesty and fair dealing.
Five core, Customer focus environmental and social policies to ensure non negotiable values underpin everything Continuous improvement a better quality of life for everyone, now and that we do.
These are integrity, customer focus, Respect for people for future generations.
continuous improvement, respect for people Teamwork and teamwork.
Our UK Code of Conduct and Our corporate responsibility practices are our US Company Policy Manual describe our response to this global challenge and, in 2005, approach to doing business ethically.
we introduced a Sustainability Policy to clarify our approach and intentions.
Governance The George Wimpey Plc Board is committed to Our six core areas of focus in terms of corporate achieving high standards of corporate governance.
The Board considers that, in the year under review, Health and safety: to ensure the health and safety it has complied with all the provisions of the of our workforce and those who come into contact Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
We with our operating sites and homes also introduced electronic voting for shareholders.
For further details, please refer to our Annual Environment: to minimise adverse impacts Report and Accounts 2005. while taking steps to protect and enhance the natural environment CSR management Ultimate responsibility for CSR within our Building sustainable communities: to have a Group rests with the CSR Committee and the positive impact on the communities in which Plc Board.
Chaired by Non Executive Director we operate Christine Cross, our high-level CSR Committee Employees: to provide fullling and rewarding meets at least three times per year and is careers for our employees responsible for strategy, policies, reporting, performance and monitoring.
It is tasked with Customer care: to offer our customers unrivalled ensuring that corporate responsibility activity is and consistent quality of product and service adequately resourced, has appropriate standing Supply chain management: to manage within the Group and is aligned to the needs our supply chain effectively and develop of the business.
The composition of our CSR mutually beneficial partnerships with Committee shows how seriously we take suppliers and sub-contractors these issues.
co. uk 7 Vision, Values and Governance continued Stakeholder engagement We strive to be a responsive company and enter into dialogue with our stakeholders on a wide range of business and sustainability issues.
We participate actively in industry developments and work closely with industry bodies, regulators and government.
We try to Our CSR stay informed about developments in management system corporate responsibility and learn from Develop strategies and policies the experience of organisations such as Following implementation, our Implement English Partnerships, WWF and Business CSR policies are monitored and in the Community.
This report and reviewed in order to continuously Measure and monitor our Annual Report and Accounts improve our approach to CSR Report provide details of current stakeholder strategy and performance.
We have dened Seek internal and external feedback our primary stakeholders as follows Identify risks and opportunities and have systems in place to ensure engagement with these groups: Review approach and performance Shareholders Customers Employees and sub-contractors Risk management Communities in which we operate Identifying and tackling non financial risk is a key aspect of the business case for corporate Suppliers and business partners responsibility.
Our comprehensive systems, Local, regional and national government processes and procedures help us to fully Trade and industry bodies understand the social, environmental and ethical Planners and regulators risks to our business.
Both financial and non financial risks are identied by our Audit Committee.
These Charities and groups interested are included in the Boards annual assessment of in sustainable housing the risks affecting the Group and the ensuing plans for effective management of those risks including internal controls.
The CSR Committee is also tasked at the back of this report provide a snapshot of our with highlighting significant non financial risks for year on year performance.
In addition, our website the attention of the Board.
contains policy documents, further information on our systems and processes, details of performance At a corporate level, the UKs environmental against 2004 targets and explanations of how our aspects and impacts register which summarises KPI measurements are calculated.
the key risks associated with our activities, products and services was finalised in 2005.
Assurance At a site level, George Wimpey assesses all health, Our website includes verication statements safety and environmental risks for each and from those responsible for advising us on and every project prior to work commencing.
A auditing our health, safety and environment comprehensive Site Specific Environmental practices.
This year, we have focused on achieving Action Plan is produced for every site.
ISO 14001:2004 certication as external validation Transparency of the rigour of our environmental management We are committed to reporting annually on our system.
Our CSR Committee continues to review corporate responsibility performance and progress.
whether to seek external assurance for our annual The 26 key performance indicator KPI measurements CSR Report.
8 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2005 Group CSR framework: Our six core areas of focus Ethics, values and governance underpin everything George Wimpey does and determines the Groups approach to all aspects of the business.
Our CSR framework focuses on six key areas.
Health and Safety Priorities: Accident prevention Health and safety management Employee and contractor training Designing for safety Site inspections and audits Engaging with stakeholders Supply Chain Environment Management Priorities: Priorities: Environmental management and Open and transparent communication waste management minimisation with producers and suppliers Land use and remediation Control over specications and standards Sustainable solutions Sourcing initiatives Employee and contractor training local, regional and national Site inspections and audits Fair treatment and prompt payment Engaging with stakeholders Community Customer Care Priorities: Priorities: Ensuring a customer service culture Building communities in which people want to live Customer feedback and satisfaction Fair treatment of customers Land regeneration Building with care Quality of build and nish Handling complaints Stakeholder engagement Employees Community consultation Communicating Priorities: with customers Charitable initiatives Staff satisfaction Treatment of staff and sub-contractors Training and development Fair pay and benets Tackling skills shortages Employee consultation More information about our corporate governance procedures is available on-line at www.
co. uk Our Sustainability Policy and other CSR information is available at www.
co. uk 9 Health and Safety Health and safety is our highest priority Health and safety is of paramount importance approach.
The Work Foundation visited 10 sites to all of our companies.
Our health, safety and and talked informally to workers in canteens.
We environment HSE systems and procedures have a realised that, while our health and safety messages significant impact on the safety and wellbeing of are well understood by site managers, this is not our staff and workforce.
We believe that we lead the case with all site operatives.
To explore further, the housebuilding industry in the UK and US in the Work Foundation then sent surveys to all of our terms of our commitment to and management site managers and a large percentage of our subof health and safety.
The next steps will be to learn from the survey results and develop initiatives to Our performance in the UK and US is audited improve our communication with site operatives by external consultants R G Wilbrey, C-MIST about health and safety.
In addition, senior personnel visit and monitor all sites on a regular basis.
We In 2005, we focused on introducing an improved have comprehensive accident reporting systems, health and safety audit system for all UK companies.
conduct extensive training programmes and run Once the audit system is fully operational, we will safety campaigns to address specic issues.
seek British Safety Council accreditation.
We continually look for ways to improve and We are working with the Home Builders Federation standardise our UK and US health and safety HBF on a common system for benchmarking procedures and practices.
We regularly test and notiable accidents and are committed to introduce new approaches, and we work closely reducing accidents in line with action plan targets with suppliers, manufacturers, industry bodies being developed by HBF.
We are also registered and regulators.
New developments In 2004, we started work on a major safety Updating procedures awareness poster campaign with striking images.
Introduced on all UK sites in 2005, the campaign In 2005, we fully updated our extensive UK health, safety and environment was designed as a hard-hitting reminder to HSE procedures manual.
Since the last version was published, we have employees and sub-contractors of the possible made a wide range of improvements and enhancements as a result of consequences of being complacent about safety.
learning from our own and our industrys experience.
The new manual is Following this campaign, we asked the Work designed to be as clear, concise and user-friendly as possible.
Foundation to help us explore our contractors and trades understanding and compliance with our UK accident reduction gures 7.5 6.0 4.5 3.0 1.5 0 03 04 05 Incident rate per 1,000 employees and contractors 10 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2005 7.0 6.8 6.6 Improving our industry In the UK, we were a runner up in the Best Housebuilders Safety Initiative category of the 2005 Health and Safety Awards for trialling a type of forklift on behalf of the UK housebuilding industry.
In the US, the Tampa Division of Morrison Homes formed a coalition of housebuilders in 2004 to improve their trade partners performance on health and safety.
The Tampa Bay Safety Alliance now represents more than 60% of annual new home construction in the area and, in 2005, agreed minimum safety standards that all housebuilders would require of the trades working on their sites.
Construction excellence In 2005, site manager Pierce Browne of George Wimpey West Midlands won a Gold Medal in the prestigious Construction Manager of the Year awards for the second time in three years.
Safety was a particular concern on Pierces large site, The Mall development in Birmingham, because there is a school immediately outside.
20 Pierce met the head teacher, visited the HOURS OF H&S TRAINING school and installed a gated entry as well REQUIRED FOR UK SITE as introducing a range of other safety MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL measures for pedestrians and site workers.
EACH YEAR Building on sound foundations Morrison Homes developed a major new training course in 2005.
The Foundations of Building Excellence course is designed for all new employees in construction and customer care and explains the companys approach and philosophy in terms of construction and warranty.
New employees learn about the companys safety and security procedures including record keeping, inspections, audits, training and accident reporting.
with the Corporate Health and Safety Performance Index CHaSPI.
In the US, we introduced a new annual safety audit of each of our Divisions.
The audits are undertaken by external consultants PROSAFE who also design our health and safety training programmes.
This external audit complements our weekly, monthly and quarterly internal audit and inspection procedures.
In 2005, Morrison Homes introduced a new National Safety Culture Award scheme to promote best practice in all our Divisions.
Each year, one Division Details of our health and safety policies as well will be chosen as the winner on the basis of its as UK and US verication statements from our performance against all aspects of Morrison Homes consultants R G Wilbrey, C-MIST and PROSAFE health, safety and security procedures and practices.
co. uk 11 Environment Taking responsibility for the environment Green transport We acknowledge the need to reduce car dependency and many of our developments encourage home owners to go by foot, bicycle or public transport instead of driving.
The Green Transport Plan developed by George Wimpey East Anglia for customers at The Glade development in Little Plumstead, Norfolk provides an example.
A brochure explains about sustainable transport and highlights new footpaths, a cycleway, public transport and car sharing options.
New home owners receive either a free bus pass or 75 days free park and ride travel.
Top housebuilder for Environmental issues have never been as energy-efficient homes.
This section of the environmental impact important as they are today and we take report includes examples of energy-efficient our responsibilities in this area extremely homes built in the UK and US as well as 75 seriously.
According to the 2005 survey by our use of renewable energy on selected Insight Investment and WWF case study developments.
We also support research and page 5, we perform better than any of the development in sustainable design by 60 other leading UK housebuilders in terms continuing to sponsor a research lectureship of impact on the environment.
45 We take a thorough and detailed approach New developments to managing environmental issues in the During 2005 we undertook ISO 14001:2004 30 UK.
Our comprehensive environmental certication for our entire UK operations management system EMS is now certied of land development and design and to ISO 14001:2004.
In addition, we have 15 construction of residential properties.
All extensive procedures in place to address a of our UK operations were certied by mid wide range of site specic issues including January 2006 and we are the first publicly 0 pollution, transport, sustainable urban listed UK housebuilder to have achieved drainage solutions and biodiversity.
We were assessed by BSi Management sites are inspected and audited by RSK Systems.
Achieving certication for all of ENSR Environment Ltd. our UK businesses in one year involved a significant amount of work to update our We recognise the massive threat of climate change and are committed to procedures and implement a more rigorous 2003 2005 reducing emissions and building highly audit system.
Most importantly, the process Source: Investing in Sustainability report by Insight Investment and WWF-UK 12 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2005 The Berkeley Group McCarthy & Stone Bovis Homes Crest Nicholson George Wimpey and trialling new initiatives to recycle waste.
We experimented with various technologies Environmental during 2005, including stone crushers and action plans plastic compactors.
One significant development in 2005 Before construction starts, all UK sites involved reassessing our relationship with develop a Site Specific Environmental our national waste broker, Wastele.
We took Action Plan SSEAP.
This detailed document outlines all of the controls steps to align their interests with ours by that need to be in place for each particular providing the financial incentive site and we audit each sites performance.
to reduce rather than just manage waste.
It covers biodiversity, conservation, George Wimpey and Wastele can now work archaeological and other issues.
We seek to closely on waste minimisation projects that minimise disturbance to sensitive ora and will be to our mutual advantage.
fauna, and are often involved in integrating New hazardous waste regulations came into wildlife, wild spaces and protected species force in July 2005, signicantly increasing the on our developments.
cost of the disposal of hazardous waste to landll.
This means that the traditional dig and dump approach to contaminated soil Innovative approaches during land remediation is no longer always George Wimpey Norths Westoe Crown economically viable.
Instead, companies are Village in South Shields is one example of encouraged to investigate a wide range of innovation helping to create a sustainable remediation strategies that may even involve community.
We built a state of the art school the treatment and reuse of materials on-site.
that has solar panels to heat water and uses We anticipated this legislation by publishing recycled rainwater for ushing toilets.
Other and training our employees on our own initiatives in the village include cycle storage Guide to Remediation in 2004.
In 2005, facilities, a car share club and both recycling we extended this initiative by developing and composting facilities.
Northumbria Police and training employees on a new Land also helped us design the village to be Quality Manual with detailed guidance child-friendly and safe.
on suitable techniques and approved remediation contractors.
gave us the opportunity to examine our EMS and improve its efficiency.
Waste is a key area of focus from both an environmental and financial perspective.
Thanks to our waste minimisation practices, we reduced the cost of dealing with our waste by 20% in 2005.
Our waste minimisation working group meets regularly to identify ways to continually reduce waste on-site, including working with suppliers www.
co. uk 13 Environment continued Zero energy homes In 2005, Morrison Homes Sacramento Division set out plans for a new zero energy development.
The Laguna community will incorporate solar roof tiles along with high levels of energy efficiency and insulation.
This means that each home will produce as much energy as it uses and the home owner will be able to sell surplus energy back to the local utility company.
Construction of the communitys 64 homes is due to start in mid 2006.
One example of training and awareness raising during towards sourcing environmentally sustainable 2005 also relates to waste.
We introduced our Waste products.
We recognise that the products, services Lets Get it Sorted campaign to further encourage site and contractors we procure have an environmental operatives to use our skip segregation system and impact relating to their production, distribution, use and end of life disposal.
Our policy aims to reduce waste sent to landll.
As part of the campaign we developed a site guide to segregation and tackle these issues and links into our health, safety and environment management system.
focused on certain types of recyclable waste including plasterboard, timber and bricks.
Our audit process The policy is available on our website.
will measure the effectiveness of the campaign and Working with our buyers and suppliers on during 2006 we intend to have a national roadshow procurement issues is essential if we are to raising awareness and encouraging best practice.
introduce practical and commercially viable solutions.
After undertaking a pilot sustainability In 2004, we set up a working group to conduct survey in 2004, we revised the survey in 2005 and research and a gap analysis of EcoHomes sent it to all of our major UK suppliers.
Our aim is assessment criteria.
In 2005, we built 2,404 units to to understand the extent to which our suppliers EcoHomes standards and we will be constructing currently manage the environmental impacts a significant number of homes to these standards of their products, whether products have been in 2006 and beyond.
We are also involved in the designed with sustainability in mind and what consultation process on the UK Governments controls they have in place.
The next step will be proposed Code for Sustainable Homes.
to send the survey out to the rest of our suppliers Procurement in 2006.
The findings of this survey will be used In 2005, we developed a Green Procurement Policy to develop a guide for George Wimpey buyers to that outlines our commitment to and progress assist them in procuring greener materials and Recycling site waste UK waste reduction % tonnes 10 100 8 80 60 6 40 4 2 20 0 0 03 04 05 04 05 Recycled Tonnage of waste produced per unit of UK housing completed Landll Percentage of UK waste that was recycled or sent to landill in 2005 14 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2005 35 65 70 30 9.7 9.6 7.0 Award winning energy efficiency Morrison Homes won the mid-volume housebuilder category of the 2005 Excellence in Energy Performance Awards for the Dallas, Fort Worth and Austin areas.
The award is given to the homebuilder that has constructed the largest volume of Energy Star certied homes with the highest average home energy rating.
US Divisions built 2,342 homes to Energy Star or an equivalent certication in 2005.
The Dallas and Sacramento Divisions build all of their homes to Energy Star standards.
ENERGY STAR HOMES BUILT 2,342 IN 2005 Sustainable drainage systems The Silver Springs development near Sacramento required a retention basin to deal with large quantities of water draining through the site and to prevent silt from owing into a sensitive wetland area.
Morrison Homes decided to make the basin into a feature and used careful landscape design and native plants to produce a natural space and wildlife haven.
A trail system around the basin provides access for residents.
to help them work with suppliers to nd solutions that are commercially viable.
This links with our holistic approach to supply chain management.
Our US and UK environmental policies are available We minimise the use of toxic and hazardous on-line at www.
co. uk csr materials on-site where possible.
We are also along with statements on UK performance by committed to using dual ush toilets, low emission BSi Management Systems, RSK ENSR and Wastele.
boilers and energy-efficient A and B rated white goods.
We also encourage our regional companies to recycle or reclaim materials for use on-site, if they can nd a practical way of doing so.
Our policy is that all virgin timber used in the UK comes from sustainable sources.
We use FSC certied timber as well as PEFC certied softwood from Scandinavia and the Baltic States.
co. uk 15 Building Sustainable Communities Supporting our local communities The UK Government is challenging companies to In other areas, we work in partnership with build sustainable communities.
Our wide ranging planners, land owners and the local community.
experience makes us well placed to respond to this.
We also try to trial and learn from new initiatives, and to adopt innovative approaches that align The sustainable communities diagram opposite commercial and sustainability objectives.
identies the different features that we have Our new housing product for first time buyers integrated into selected developments.
Examples and key workers provides an example of this of how we tackled each of these issues in 2005 case study page 18. can be found throughout this report.
We try to introduce sustainability features to our sites as a matter of course when they add value in the eyes of our customers.
Our priority areas are as follows: Building communities in which people want to live We focus on providing high quality, well designed, safe and appealing homes and communities for our customers.
We also specialise in turning contaminated, run-down or disused land into thriving community spaces.
Building with care We have a Construction Code of Practice, and our UK and US companies strive to be good neighbours throughout the construction process and beyond.
We encourage our UK companies to apply for Considerate Constructors Scheme accreditation on large or complex sites.
Stakeholder engagement We work closely with government, planners, land owners, housing associations and other groups to rene and develop our approach to building sustainable communities.
Community consultation We have a proven track record in this area, having won the Best Community Consultation category of the 2005 Housing Innovation Awards for Mawsley Village case study page 22.
Charitable initiatives Both our UK and US businesses strongly encourage employees to fundraise and get involved in charitable initiatives.
We are keen to use our construction skills and contacts to help charities and have a particular focus on initiatives linked to housing and homelessness.
In 2005, we donated a total of 546,532 to charity in the UK and US.
16 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2005 Areas of focus in building sustainable communities Environmental issues Social issues Land remediation p13 Construction and design quality p19, 21, 26 EcoHomes p14, 19, 20 Home Zones and safe streets p11, 12, 13, 20, 21 Energy and water efficiency p13, 14, 15, 20, 23 Provision of public, green Green procurement p14, 21, 22 and activity spaces p20, 22, 23 Domestic waste reduction p13, 21 Accessibility p21, 22 Biodiversity protection p13, 21, 22, 23 Considerate construction p16 Green transport p12, 20, 21, 22 Building social cohesion p20, 21 efficient use of land p18 Charitable contributions and activities p18, 19 Economic issues Engagement Urban regeneration p20, 21 Stakeholder engagement Mixed use developments p20, 21, 22 on sustainability community issues p5, 8 Affordable homes p18, 19, 20, 21 Community consultation p19, 21, 22, 23 Local employment p20, 24, 25 Encouraging home owners to live a more sustainable life p12, 26 www.
co. uk 17 Building Sustainable Communities continued Affordable homes for key workers During 2005, we developed a new product to provide high quality homes for key workers and first time buyers at a price tag of less than 100,000 and without external grant funding.
Modern methods of construction, efficient use of land and a simple, efficient and modular build form will keep costs low.
A range of different treatments means that homes will look individual and unique on the inside and be sensitive to the local environment on the outside.
We gain access to a significant market of people who could not previously afford our housing, while our customers will get attractive homes at affordable prices.
Construction started on the first of these homes in 2005 and we will report further on this initiative in 2006.
Lending a hand after Hurricane Katrina Hurricane Katrina tore through US coastal states in August 2005.
Houston received thousands of evacuees from in and around New Orleans and Morrison Homes immediately joined in the relief effort.
Morrison Homes matched employee donations and, together, the company and its employees raised over $120,000.
In Houston, for example, employees and customers helped to gather huge quantities of clothing, toiletries, blankets, food, toys and other essentials for families in need.
$120,000 RAISED THROUGH COMPANY AND EMPLOYEE DONATIONS Helping the vulnerable Using our skills for charity During 2005, George Wimpey North fully restored and refurbished a vacant local Morrison Homes also uses its expertise in housebuilding authority hostel for the homeless in Derwentshire, County Durham on behalf of to help local communities.
Each year, Divisions get charities CRASH and Centrepoint.
The disused hostel, which was next to our involved in building work for the Habitat for Humanity Greenside View development in Consett, was a local eyesore.
Its five ats and 11 charity and our Tampa Division takes part in an annual bedrooms now provide a safe and secure environment for young homeless people.
event to refurbish and repaint the houses of older or George Wimpey Midlands also helped to refurbish a kitchen at a womens centre needy individuals.
In 2005, the Houston Division helped in a deprived area of Wolverhampton as part of HRH The Prince of Wales Seeing Habitat for Humanity with painting, roong and other is Believing Programme.
exterior work on a family home.
Thirty of our Jacksonville Division employees and their families also worked together to help replace the roof of and refurbish an elderly home owners re-damaged house on behalf of the Builders Care organisation.
18 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2005 The 60,000 house In April 2005, Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott and English Partnerships launched the Design for Manufacture competition, challenging UK housebuilders to build sustainable, well designed and good quality homes for 60,000.
First, we launched an internal competition to challenge ourselves to come up with innovative ideas and construction methods.
We then worked in conjunction with the Richard Listening to local communities Rogers Partnership to develop these plans and ideas.
Over 100 companies took part in the competition and, George Wimpey North London is working with English after a rigorous selection process, we were selected as one Partnerships to provide a high quality, environmentally of nine nalists.
We were then invited to further develop sustainable, mixed-use development of at least 730 homes our designs and bid for the right to build homes on 10 on the site of the former RAF Staff College in Bracknell, development sites.
According to the Deputy Prime Minister, Berkshire.
In the first stages of our consultation in 2005, we set the bar very high to ensure the winning bids are of nearly 1,000 local residents attended workshops and the highest calibre in terms of design, cost efficiency and exhibitions and more than 80 people joined site tours to environmental standards.
He believes that the lessons discuss environmental issues.
We also set up a website learned will inuence thousands more developments and freephone hotline.
The consultation will continue in future.
throughout all stages of the project.
In November, the preferred developers for the first four sites were announced and George Wimpey and Richard Rogers Partnership were chosen as the preferred developers of Oxley Park in Milton Keynes.
1,000 The 146 Oxley Park homes, which should be under construction in spring 2006, are innovatively designed LOCAL RESIDENTS ATTENDED CONSULTATION WORKSHOPS for exibility as well as quality and cost effectiveness.
The homes will achieve an EcoHomes standard of at least very good.
In addition, they will integrate renewable energy and water minimisation devices as well as maximising the use of space and natural light.
The homes will use eco-hats that are central lanterns built into the roofs of homes to allow more natural light in and help manage heat more effectively.
We are also focussing on waste reduction, reducing car dependency and safe streets within the development.
Winning the Design for Manufacture competition is an example of our proactive approach to the Governments priority areas of sustainability, design excellence, modern methods of construction and affordable housing.
Award winning design Supported by the Ofce of the Deputy Prime Minister, RIBA and the NHBC, the inuential Housing Design Awards recognise excellence in sustainability and design.
George Wimpey South West Thames innovative Point Pleasant community of 128 residential apartments and commercial spaces in Wandsworth, South London was named as a Project Winner.
In addition, The Staiths in Gateshead won the Large Housebuilder Award in the Completed Winners category.
co. uk 19 Building Sustainable Communities case studies Regenerating Thames Gateway The Bridge Dartford, Kent George Wimpey South East is working in partnership with Dartford Borough Council on the first phase of homes at The Bridge, which is part of Thames Gateway the largest regeneration scheme in Western Europe.
We are building 1,134 homes and expect to start on-site in 2006.
Features Example of Landscaping will be a top priority, with 340 affordable homes of various tenures Urban regeneration homes built around a hierarchy of private, will be fully integrated within the semi private, communal and civic spaces.
Mixed-use The landscaping is designed to encourage All homes will receive EcoHomes community interaction and a large nature EcoVillage with good ratings.
reserve will provide space for wildlife.
Homes have been designed around existing mature There will be an EcoVillage of approximately EcoHomes trees and watercourses.
50 homes that will receive EcoHomes Innovative design very good or excellent ratings.
These The development will include a wide mix of homes will be used to test a range of housing types and will also provide a district Biodiversity innovative sustainability features including centre, primary school, open spaces and playing solar power and rainwater recycling.
elds with an associated sports pavilion.
Green transport We plan to extend successful and Cycling and walking will be encouraged with marketable features to other homes Home Zones the provision of Home Zones that give priority across the development.
to pedestrians rather than cars as well as green Affordable housing The scheme will attempt to outperform and blueways, which are corridors of open all benchmarks in waste management, space on land which run alongside water local sourcing, local job creation, for recreation or conservation.
A Sustainable community participation, neighbourhood Urban Drainage Scheme will further protect the environment.
management, ecology protection and environmental enhancement.
A purpose built, regular Fastrack bus service will run through the site and connect with Our highly experienced design team includes architects Broadway Malyan Dartford town centre and Bluewater shopping centre.
The Bridge, Dartford, Kent 50 WILL RECEIVE ECOHOMES VERY GOOD OR EXCELLENT RATINGS 20 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2005 HOMES Features Innovation on the River Tyne Innovative design is a key aspect of the development and, in 2005, Staiths was awarded a Building for Life Silver Standard and was the Large Housebuilder Winner in the Housing Design Awards 2005.
Both award schemes noted the mix of property types as well as innovative communal The Staiths design features that encourage neighbours to get to know one another.
These include pocket parks, table tennis tables and barbecues.
South Bank, Gateshead Staiths provides affordable and low cost housing in this socially disadvantaged part of the UK.
Home Zones give pedestrians priority over cars and most The Staiths South Bank is a George home owners use parking courts rather than having their Wimpey North development of 777 own parking space.
All residents live within 400 metres of a bus stop.
homes on the site of a former gas All houses have cycle sheds, the development is linked to a network of cycle routes and residents are given a works on the banks of the River Tyne.
There are expected to be six phases The site has been specically designed so that wheelchair users can access all areas.
of building altogether and we are Residents have been involved at every stage of the process currently building 100 homes as part and have been consulted on a range of environmental and other issues.
of phase two, having completed 158 Communal waste management facilities are included to homes in phase one.
encourage recycling and hidden behind willow screens.
Local craftspeople have also made features from reclaimed timber and recycled railway sleepers.
We undertook to protect wading birds and we are helping to rejuvenate a local saltmarsh and are part funding a wildlife warden.
The sales centre will eventually become a shop and cafe and there are other proposals for mixed-use units.
We are working on Staiths with designers HemingwayDesign and architects the Ian Darby Partnership.
Staiths also won Best Housing-led Project in the 2005 Regeneration Awards.
Example of Award winning design Urban regeneration Biodiversity Home Zones Affordable housing 50 The Staiths, IS GIVEN TO RESIDENTS TO PUT South Bank, Gateshead Green transport TOWARDS A NEW BICYCLE www.
co. uk 21 Building Sustainable Communities case studies Creating a sustainable community Mawsley Village near Kettering, Northamptonshire In partnership with Kettering Borough Council, George Wimpey East Midlands has created a new sustainable village.
Mawsley is specically designed to be a vibrant and well served community.
The development will include a school, community hall, play areas, sports pitches, shop, medical practice and employment units.
Community consultation was at the heart of We also funded the villages new state of the Example of this development.
We funded a Community art primary school, which opened in 2004.
Public transport Development officer to liaise between the The development will provide 15% village organisations, the Borough Council and affordable housing.
We appointed a senior company representative as Village Project Manager, Many of the homes have been constructed Community whose role included listening to residents and from local stone using traditional methods.
We have consultation Enhanced landscaping and an extensive listened to the views of local residents and wood planting project provide wildlife taken them into consideration at every stage Mixed-use and public spaces.
We also consulted Award winning widely on all community facilities.
As a result, To encourage public transport use and we won the Best Example of Community help villagers to access nearby towns, we Consultation award at the inaugural subsidised the existing Northampton to Housebuilding Innovation Awards 2005.
Kettering bus service to divert to the village.
Features We contribute to village events, such as the We funded and are overseeing construction Christmas party, bonre night, bulb planting of a 1 million community centre for the site and also helped fund a debrillator for the with a main hall, bar, function room, kitchen, doctors surgery.
meeting rooms and nursery area.
The centre will be fully accessible to wheelchair users.
Local residents were involved in the design and layout of the centre to ensure that it meets the communitys needs.
1m Mawsley Village, PROVIDED BY GEORGE WIMPEY TO near Kettering, FUND A COMMUNITY CENTRE ON SITE Northamptonshire 22 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2005 Energy efficiency in action El Dorado Estates El Dorado County, California El Dorado Estates encompasses 112 homes close to Sacramento in the Sierra foothills, where the California Gold Rush took place.
Like all Sacramento Division homes, the The site includes 12 acres of open space Example of El Dorado Estates properties are Energy Star which Morrison Homes has given to a not Biodiversity accredited.
Energy Star properties use a for profit group in order to preserve the minimum of 30% less energy than the natural surroundings and provide a haven Energy equivalent conventional home in terms for native wildlife.
One trail runs through of heating water and heating and cooling the land, to allow home owners and the efficiency the home.
local community to enjoy the space.
Community Features Morrison Homes attended open forum The homes are designed to blend in with the discussions with the local community in consultation surrounding hilly landscape and natural rock order to listen to what people wanted from has been used for retaining walls to minimise land that was allocated as space for a formal their impact.
As a result of these discussions, we provided a large grassy area, a play area for There are no street lights in the community.
children and a trail system for hiking and This decision taken by the local authority cycling.
The park includes barbecues and after consultation with residents avoids tables to encourage residents to use and light pollution and provides home owners enjoy the park.
with a chance to enjoy stars in the night sky.
During construction, a recycling plan was In addition to the energy saving features, implemented and waste materials were each home has a greywater supply to reduce segregated on-site to facilitate recycling.
the unnecessary use of drinking quality water.
The greywater is provided by a local waste water treatment plant and is used by residents to water their gardens.
12 OF OPEN SPACE WHICH MORRISON HOMES HAS GIVEN TO A NOT FOR PROFIT El Dorado, GROUP IN ORDER TO PRESERVE El Dorado County, California THE NATURAL SURROUNDINGS www.
co. uk 23 ACRES Employees Our employees are key to our success Our employees play a vital role in our New developments continued business success.
We focus on As members of the Major Home Builders providing a positive working environment Group, we have committed to qualify and developing our employees potential.
our entire UK site workforce under the This helps us to attract and retain what we Construction Skills Certication Scheme CSCS hope are some of the best employees in by 2010.
Qualication proves that the holder is the UK and US housebuilding industries.
vocationally competent and aware of health and safety issues.
A total of 1,366 of our We aim to treat staff and sub-contractors fairly employees received their qualication in 2005. and work by the principles laid out in our UK Code of Business Conduct and US Company Our latest bi-annual employee survey, Policy Manual.
We update our procedures undertaken in 2004, suggested that we could regularly to comply with legislation, have do more to involve our employees in decisions strict equal opportunities policies and about our business.
In 2005, we set up formal endorse the United Nations Declaration employee consultation committees in all of of Human Rights.
One initiative that came about as a result of one of the first committee We recruit the majority of our employees and meetings was the introduction of childcare site operatives from the communities around vouchers for all employees who are parents.
our ofces and developments, and we are The vouchers can be used to pay for a range committed to continue recruiting locally.
An example of local employment on-site is our Roundshaw estate in a deprived area of Each of our apprentice, management Wallington, where it was a condition of our training, graduate training and management development that we use a minimum of 20% development schemes continued in the UK local labour.
These initiatives contribute to tackling Providing site facilities In the UK, we pride ourselves on the quality of our facilities for site workers.
We provide canteens with hot food and drinks, changing and drying rooms, plus separate washing facilities for men and women.
The Lodge development in Nuneaton was a runner-up in the Best Site Facilities Award at the Health and Safety Awards 2005.
24 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2005 our industrys skills shortage and help us to nd, develop and retain first rate employees.
We took Helping people get on a total of 170 apprentices as well as 40 school back to work or college leavers as management trainees.
We also introduced an Apprentice of the In the UK, we are a national partner in Business in the Year Award in 2005, where each UK company Communitys Business Action on Homelessness.
We nominates its best apprentice to compete have so far recruited one person through the scheme for our national award and a 1,000 prize.
and are keen to provide work placements for other In addition, 12 high achievers were recruited potential employees.
George Wimpey West Midlands for our intensive general, technical and also supports the Jericho Community Project and marketing graduate training schemes in 2005. has provided financial support and mentoring for The graduates are expected to reach regional a construction skills course for 38 socially excluded board director level within six years and two or long term unemployed individuals.
of them have now achieved this.
We also continue to work with industry bodies and other key stakeholders.
We are involved in two training initiatives with the Home Builders Federation and the Construction Industry Training Board.
The first is looking at developing a foundation course for our industry and the second is investigating possible further qualications for site managers.
In 2005, Morrison Homes trained selected employees in interview and selection techniques in order to help managers recruit the best new employees for the company.
At the same time, The UK Code of Business Conduct and the company undertook a compensation relevant sections of the Morrison Homes review to ensure that employees receive a fair Employee Manual are available on-line at wage and competitive package of benets.
co. uk csr Rewarding values Each year, Morrison Homes presents one outstanding employee with a core values award for living by the Groups five core values.
The 2005 winner was Sheila Aungst of the Phoenix Division, for her high ethical standards and for taking the initiative in improving working practices.
Encouraging the builders of the future Morrison Homes Tampa Division supports the Future Builders Association FBA, a Florida based organisation that encourages high school students to learn about careers in housebuilding.
The Division sponsors an FBA chapter at Simmons Career Center in Hillsborough County.
As part of this commitment, the Division has run eld trips to construction sites, co-ordinated club training and built a playhouse to raise money at auction.
Fast track graduates Rod Martin was the first person on our graduate training scheme to reach regional board director level.
Rod joined the graduate scheme in 2000 and became Land and Planning Director for George Wimpey City during 2005.
Rod was recruited after graduating from the University of Shefeld with an MA in Russian.
In what he describes as a first rate training scheme, Rod received rotational training in different placements in the UK and US before completing an MBA at the University of Oxford.
co. uk 25 Customer Care Unrivalled and consistent quality and service Growing Wiser George Wimpey West Scotland was the first region to undertake the Growing Wiser Throughout the Supply Chain programme.
Before any work starts on a site, the company holds a series of meetings with relevant departments and sub-contractors.
The meetings examine and discuss health, safety and environmental issues as well as the work that needs to be done including when, how and by whom.
The aim is for everyone to work together as a strong team from the start of any project.
Our aim is for our home buyers to receive As part of this process, we developed a code the highest possible levels of customer service of conduct and customer care requirements for sub-contractors and suppliers.
We also and product quality.
We focus on dealing with published our commitments to suppliers and our customers in a timely, professional and sub-contractors.
These range from providing friendly manner.
a safe working environment to taking full We strive to make the house buying consideration of our trade partners views, process straightforward and uncomplicated concerns and ideas.
We provide mortgage and At the same time, redesigned customer insurance services as well as a wide range of assistance brochures have been introduced options in terms of furnishings and ttings in to provide customers with clear customer order to make the customers move as smooth warranty and emergency information.
All customers receive a blanket are also developing a new customer brochure two year warranty as well as a 10 year that includes information on our corporate structural warranty.
In addition, we inform Comprehensive UK and US customer care customers about major environmental and management systems help us to measure, social features on our sites as well as discussing these issues during community consultations.
monitor and continuously improve the effectiveness of our customer service In the 2005 NHBC Pride in the Job awards, our in all Group companies.
UK site managers won 50 Quality and six Seal of Excellence awards.
We also won a Customer New developments Service Award and four Commendations in the In 2004, every UK employee received training Homes for Scotland Awards.
in Growing Wiser, a new customer care training programme.
In 2005, we developed Morrison Homes introduced a new Keeping a roadshow for our regional businesses the Value Part II training programme for all to take to all of their sub-contractors and direct and indirect customer contacts.
Ten of our companies completed training programme tackles every aspect of the Growing Wiser Throughout the Supply customer care and emphasises the importance Chain programme during the year with the of communication, teamwork and other remainder of companies scheduled to run essential elements of achieving high levels roadshows in early 2006. of customer satisfaction.
26 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2005 In addition, Morrison Homes has enhanced its Customer Care Management System CCMS and is in the process of training Divisions For more information, visit our customer on the new elements of the system.
co. uk, CCMS has been extended to manage www.
co. uk and communication for every stage of customer www.
com contact, from first enquiries to commitments under the two year warranty.
The system is designed to make it as easy as possible for staff to be proactive in keeping customers informed and to handle queries or problems.
Taking care of customers The Bleibergs moved into their new home in Windermere, Florida in January 2005.
They chose Morrison Homes because of the style and design as well as the extra features available.
The two year blanket warranty also inuenced their decision.
Before construction even began, customer service got off to a good start when the builder and a customer service representative came to Mrs Bleibergs rescue after her car had a at tyre on the way to work one day.
Mrs Bleiberg described her builder as wonderful and accommodating, her customer service team as very reassuring and Morrison Homes as having a great formula for success.
She has recommended Morrison Homes to many of her friends, one of whom has already bought a home from us.
Harnessing technology Speaking your language We are keen to make the best use of Morrison Homes has introduced a Spanish technology in order to attract new buyers version of the companys website to make and improve customer service.
Morrison house hunting easier for the countrys large Homes uses internet technology in a range Hispanic population.
Our Customer Care of ways, such as providing interactive oor Management System now translates into plans to help customers visualise what their English and Spanish.
In addition, we recruit home might look like when furnished.
sales associates who speak the languages of the major ethnic groups in the US.
satisfied customers The Dixon family moved into a four bedroom detached house in Swindon in November 2005.
A number of other housebuilders had properties for sale nearby, but George Wimpey had exactly what the Dixons wanted in terms of the type of house, price and timing.
Mrs Dixon described George Wimpeys showhomes as superb and better than many others we saw.
The Dixons chose to use our Easy Mover Plan, which meant that George Wimpey found and dealt with estate agents to nd a buyer for their former home.
Mrs Dixon described the George Wimpey sales executives she encountered as very professional and approachable people.
Mrs Dixon said that the overall service was brilliant and she has already recommended us to other people.
85% 89% OF OUR US CUSTOMERS WOULD RECOMMEND OF OUR UK CUSTOMERS WOULD RECOMMEND US TO FRIENDS AND FAMILY US TO FRIENDS AND FAMILY www.
co. uk 27 Supply Chain Management In partnership with our suppliers As an industry, we rely heavily on suppliers We worked with a major brick and sub-contractors in the construction of manufacturer to source bricks from more our homes.
We focus on building strong energy-efficient plants and those closer to partnerships that provide mutual benefit.
our developments, resulting in reduced costs and environmental benets As a Group, we aim to be open, responsive and keen to listen to our supply chain companies.
We have started discussions with British We are committed to treating suppliers and Gypsum on manufacturing plasterboard sub-contractors fairly and paying promptly.
sheets that are the right size for our house designs, thereby reducing waste and saving In addition, we have three other key areas of time on sites focus and will continue to develop these areas: There are other examples throughout this Open and transparent communication with report of how we manage our supply chain.
producers and suppliers These include running the Tampa Bay Safety Control over specications and standards Alliance of housebuilders page 11 : conducting sustainability surveys of suppliers Sourcing initiatives local, regional page 14 : working with Wastele on waste and national minimisation page 13 and publishing Health, safety and environment issues are our commitments to UK suppliers and taken into account during procurement and sub-contractors page 26. details can be found in the relevant sections of this report.
We are also committed to training sub-contractors on our health, safety and environmental procedures.
In 2005, we continued to develop proactive partnerships with our suppliers and subcontractors to innovate or to improve efficiency.
Supplier relations Based in Manseld in Nottinghamshire, RW Derbyshire is a second generation family business providing electrical Improving installation services.
The company has been a valued supplier to George communications Wimpey for at least 25 years.
David Morrison Homes has launched an Derbyshire, Managing Director, internet based vendor portal that gives describes his relationship with us as trade partners accurate and up to date very amicable.
He believes that we information about their work for us.
The are one of the best companies to portal provides purchase and service work for in terms of welfare and orders as well as clarifying payment health and safety as well as being free status.
It also lists homes that are about with information and giving you a to be built, so that trade partners can good idea of what is on the horizon, plan ahead.
The portal is designed to enabling us to complete our task improve communications and efficiency on time and on cost.
All in all, for us and our trade partners, as well as you know where you stand with raising our standards of customer care.
28 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2005 Key Performance Indicators The following table provides measurements for 26 key performance indicators KPIs that provide a snapshot of our year on year performance.
KPI Objectives 2003 2004 2005 Governance Group Maintain compliance with the Combined Code or explain non compliance Yes Yes Yes Health and Safety UK Measure and reduce our incident rate per thousand employees and contractors for all reportable injuries 7.0 6.8 6.6 Measure and reduce our incident rate per thousand employees and contractors for major injuries 1.3 2.1 1.9 Measure the number of category A serious potential incidents identied per year 97 54 53 Measure the number of category B moderate potential incidents identied per year 1,512 1,081 486 Measure and highlight minimum annual hours of health and safety training required for site management personnel 20 20 20 US Measure and reduce incident rate including employees and contractors 3.98 5.58 3.08 Measure the percentage of relevant personnel who complete a 10 hour OSHA training within 90 days of employment.
Our annual target will be 100% 84% 95% Measure and reduce the number of major accidents per 1,000 completions 0.27 0.45 0.00 Environment UK Measure and maximise the number of homes built on browneld sites the UK Government has set a target of 60% by 2008 67% 68% 66% Measure and highlight the average SAP rating of new houses built each year 92 94 95 Measure and reduce the tonnage of waste t produced per unit of housing completed 9.7t 9.6t 7.0t Measure and increase the percentage of waste segregated on-site 83% 84% Measure and reduce the percentage of waste sent to landll 35% 30% Measure and increase the percentage of waste recycled 65% 70% US Measure the percentage of homes completed with a Freon-free HVAC system Our target is 100% by the end of 2006 44% 79% Employees UK Measure and improve staff satisfaction as highlighted by our bi-annual employee survey and measure the percentage of staff who rate us above average or one of the best companies they know or have worked for 65% 62% Measure and reduce annual employee turnover 22% 20% 18% US Measure and improve staff satisfaction, as highlighted by our annual employee survey and measure the percentage of staff who say that Morrison Homes is a great place to work 83% 83% Measure and reduce annual employee turnover 28.5% 33% 29% Measure and increase the average number of training hours per employee 28 29 14 Customer Care UK Measure and increase the percentage of customers who would recommend us to friends and family 83% 86% 89% Measure and increase our overall customer care score as highlighted by customer questionnaire results 54% 65% 69% US Measure and increase the percentage of customers who would recommend us to friends and family 85% 86% 85% Measure and reduce the number of escalated customer complaints known as Code Purples per 1,000 completions 32.5 28.0 24.4 Measure and improve the customer satisfaction rating of the overall experience 76% 77% Please note that the UK employee survey is now bi-annual, so no survey took place in 2005.
Due to a change of supplier, the US employee survey was delayed to early 2006.
Information on how our KPI measurements are calculated is available at www.
co. uk csr along with details of performance against the 2005 targets included in our 2004 CSR Report.
Published by Black Sun Plc Printed by Royle Corporate Print This paper is manufactured from 75% fide-inked post consumer waste find out more Further details of our CSR policies are available on-line at www.
co. uk csr George Wimpey Plc Manning House 22 Carlisle Place London SW1P 1JA Tel 44 0 20 7802 9888 www.
