GKN plc 81 Annual Report 2005 Notes to IFRS transition statements In preparing these consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS 1, the Group has applied the mandatory exceptions and certain of the optional exemptions from full retrospective application of IFRS.
The applicable optional exemptions from full retrospective application elected for by the Group were as follows: A Business combinations exemption The business combinations exemption in IFRS 1 has been applied whereby business combinations that took place prior to the 1 January 2004 transition date have not been restated.
B Employee benets exemption All cumulative actuarial gains and losses as at 1 January 2004 have been recognised.
C Cumulative translation differences exemption The previous translation reserve has been set to zero at 1 January 2004.
This exemption has been applied to all subsidiaries in accordance with IFRS 1.
D Exemption from restatement of comparatives for IAS 32 and IAS 39 The exemption allows the application of previous GAAP rules to derivatives, financial assets and financial liabilities and to hedging relationships for the 2004 comparative information.
The adjustments required for differences between UK GAAP and IAS 32 and IAS 39 are determined and recognised at 1 January 2005 with the previous valuation bases of UK GAAP being retained for the 2004 comparative.
E Revaluations as deemed cost Tangible xed assets previously stated at revalued amounts have been treated as deemed cost as at 1 January 2004.
The mandatory exception from full retrospective application applied by the Group related to estimates where under IFRS estimates at 1 January 2004 should be consistent with estimates made for the same date under previous GAAP, unless there is evidence that those estimates were in error.
No change to estimates have been made.
The following notes explain the adjustments between balance sheets drawn up under UK GAAP and IFRS at 31 December 2004 the last date at which an audited balance sheet was drawn up under UK GAAP and the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2004.
Balance sheet notes a Goodwill is subject to amortisation under UK GAAP whereas no amortisation is charged under IFRS with goodwill being subject to an annual impairment review.
The adjustment reects the reversal of the 2004 amortisation charge of 23 million and the recognition of an additional 12 million impairment.
b As part of the transition to IFRS, purchased computer software was reclassied from tangible to intangible non-current assets and long-life tooling in Automotive businesses was reclassied from inventory to tangible non-current assets.
Also, elements of non-recurring costs in Aerospace businesses being design, development and tooling expenditure on long-term programmes were reclassied from inventory to either intangible or tangible non-current assets.
The intangible element was reviewed for impairment as required by IAS 36 and its carrying value reduced by 13 million.
IFRS 3 requires intangible assets to be recognised on acquisition.
The acquisition of TFS was therefore reassessed and 5 million of intangible assets were recognised.
c The adjustment reects the impact of the adoption of IFRS by the Groups joint venture operations.
The major factors were the adoption of IAS 19 and related deferred taxation adjustments offset by the reversal of the goodwill amortisation charge.
d The adjustment mainly reects the recognition of previously unrecognised post-employment obligations under IAS 19 which gave rise to a previously unrecognised deferred tax asset of 184 million at 31 December 2004. e Under UK GAAP the balance sheet contained a prepayment in respect of pensions of 198 million at 31 December 2004.
The adoption of IAS 19 resulted in this prepayment being written off and replaced by liabilities which were 588 million higher than the previously recognised gure.
There has also been a reanalysis of debtors due in more than one year.
f The adjustment reects the re-analysis of restructuring liabilities to provisions and the re-analysis of creditors due in more than one year and provisions due in less than one year.
g Under IFRS, dividends are not recognised until they become irrevocable by approval at the Annual General Meeting.
The adjustment reverses the accrual which had been made under UK GAAP.
h Under IFRS deferred tax must be recognised on all temporary differences and non-qualifying assets on business combinations.
The effect of this was to increase the liability by 24 million at 31 December 2004. i Accumulated translational adjustments in respect of net assets and net asset hedging instruments are required to be reported as separate components of equity, and included within Other reserves.
j The Group hedges its net investment in overseas subsidiaries using a variety of financial instruments.
Under IFRS and UK GAAP these are accounted for using hedge accounting.
The fair value of foreign exchange contracts used for net investment hedging has been re-analysed in the IFRS balance sheet consistent with the adoption of IAS 39 on 1 January 2005.
82 GKN plc Annual Report 2005 Notes to the financial statements continued 37 Explanation of transition to IFRS continued Income statement notes k Cash discounts allowed of 3 million have been reclassied from cost of sales to sales.
l The implementation of IAS 19 has resulted in the impact of changes in the value of the deficits being recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense rather than in the income statement.
Further, under IAS 19 the cost of post-employment obligations is analysed between operating profit and finance costs.
Consequently there is an increase in operating profit of 55 million and an increase of 29 million in net nancing costs.
The implementation of IFRS 2 requires the cost of any share-based payments made after 7 November 2002 to be recognised in the income statement over the period in which services are received.
The Group has made a number of awards to employees during 2004 as set out in note 10 to the financial statements and the cost recognised was 3 million.
Further to note b, the transition date impairment of non-recurring costs in Aerospace businesses resulted in a 1 million benefit to operating profit due to reversal of amortisation charges, which were offset by the amortisation charge on intangible assets arising on acquisitions.
m The recognition of deferred tax on post-employment obligations together with all timing differences gave rise to an increase in the tax charge for the year of 10 million.
n The reversal of amortisation of goodwill increased the post-tax profits of continuing joint ventures by 1 million and of discontinued joint ventures by 5 million.
o Under IFRS, goodwill previously written off directly to reserves is not recycled through the income statement when an investment is sold or closed.
Further, the implementation of IFRS in the Groups joint ventures gave rise to a change in their carrying value and there were some changes in respect of currency movements and deferred tax.
As a consequence, the profit recognised on the divestment of the Groups shareholding in AgustaWestland NV and Aerosystems International Limited increased as follows: Year ended 31 December 2004 m Change in equity value of AgustaWestland NV following adoption of IFRS 62 Goodwill written off direct to reserves on original acquisition, not required to be recycled under IFRS 100 Cumulative currency differences realised on disposal 4 Deferred tax release on properties sold 9 167 GKN plc 83 Annual Report 2005 Independent auditors report to the members of GKN plc We have audited the Company accounts of GKN plc for the year ended We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and 31 December 2005 which comprise the balance sheet and the related notes.
explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with The Company accounts have been prepared under the accounting policies sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Company accounts set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the report on Directors and the part of the report on Directors remuneration to be audited are free remuneration that is described as having been audited.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the We have reported separately on the Group accounts of GKN plc for the year presentation of information in the Company accounts and the part of the report ended 31 December 2005 on page 37. on Directors remuneration to be audited.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Opinion The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the report on In our opinion: Directors remuneration and the Company accounts in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom the Company accounts give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the statement of Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Directors responsibilities on page 89.
Companys affairs as at 31 December 2005: and Our responsibility is to audit the Company accounts and the part of the report the Company accounts and the part of the report on Directors remuneration on Directors remuneration to be audited in accordance with relevant legal to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Companies Act 1985.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for  LLP the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this Birmingham opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save 27 February 2006 where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Company accounts give a true Notes: and fair view and whether the Company accounts and the part of the report a The maintenance and integrity of the GKN plc website is the responsibility on Directors remuneration to be audited have been properly prepared in of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the Company accounts, if responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the accounts since the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received they were initially presented on the website.
all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Company accounts.
The other information comprises only the Directors report, the unaudited part of the report on Directors remuneration, the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives statement, the business review, the corporate governance statement and the other information listed on the contents page of the annual report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Company accounts.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Company accounts and the part of the report on Directors remuneration to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Company accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
84 GKN plc Annual Report 2005 Balance sheet of GKN plc At 31 December 2005 2005 2004 Notes m m Restated Fixed assets Investment in subsidiaries at cost 2 3,550 3,550 Current assets Amounts due from subsidiaries 47 120 Current liabilities Amounts owed to subsidiaries 2,768 2,662 2,768 2,662 Net current liabilities 2,721 2,542 Total assets less current liabilities 829 1,008 Net assets 829 1,008 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 4 370 368 Share premium account 4 23 15 Treasury shares 60 30 profit and loss account 1, 3 496 655 829 1,008 The financial statements on pages 84 to 85 were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 27 February 2006.
They were signed on its behalf by: Roy Brown, Kevin Smith, Nigel Stein, Directors GKN plc 85 Annual Report 2005 Notes on the Balance Sheet of GKN plc significant accounting policies and basis of preparation The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and law.
A new financial reporting standard, FRS 21 Events after the balance sheet date became effective in 2005.
This standard does not permit dividends to be accrued where they have not been approved at the balance sheet date.
Accordingly prior year numbers have been restated.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They have been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year.
Investments Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
Treasury shares GKN shares which have been purchased and not cancelled are held as treasury shares and deducted from shareholders equity.
Dividends The annual final dividend is not provided for until approved at the Annual General Meeting whilst interim dividends are charged in the period they are paid.
1 profit and loss account As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for the year.
The loss for the year ended 31 December 2005 was 73 million 2004 profit 11 million.
Auditors remuneration for audit services to the Company was 0.5 million 2004 0.5 million.
2 Fixed asset investments 2005 2004 m m Cost At 1 January and 31 December 3,550 3,550 Principal subsidiary and joint venture companies, the investment in which are all held through intermediate holding companies, are shown on pages 104 and 105 of the Group financial statements.
3 profit and loss account 2005 2004 m m Restated At 1 January as previously reported 672 Prior year adjustment 57 At 1 January 655 729 Loss profit for the year 73 11 Dividends 86 85 At 31 December 496 655 4 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds 2005 2004 m m Restated At 1 January as previously reported 1,053 Prior year adjustment 57 At 1 January 1,008 1,110 Increase in share capital premium 10 2 Loss profit for the year 73 11 Share buyback 30 30 Dividends 86 85 At 31 December 829 1,008 Details of the share capital and share premium of GKN plc are disclosed in notes 27 and 28 to the Group financial statements.
