Index Page Page Accounting policies 89 Independent Auditors report 83 Accounting presentation 55,89 Intellectual property 25,157 Achieve commercial and operational excellence 06,14 Interest rate risk management 70 Acquisitions and disposals 119 Internal control framework 33 Annual General Meeting 32 Inventories 105 Assets held for sale 106 Investments in associates and joint ventures 104 Associates and joint ventures 97,104 Investor information 171 Be the best place for the best people to do their best work 06,16 Legal proceedings 157-164 Board 28,30 Movements in equity 67,117 Build the best product pipeline in the industry 06,07-13 Net debt 67,114 Cash and cash equivalents 106 New accounting policies and future requirements 92 Combined Code 35,82 Non-Executive Director terms, conditions and fees 44 Commitments 67,122 Non-Executive Directors remuneration 46,47 Committee reports 34,35,37-54 Notes to the financial statements 89-170 Community investment 18-19 Operating and financial review and prospects 55-80 Consolidated balance sheet 85 Operating profit 95,96 Consolidated cash ow statement 86 Other intangible assets 103,104 Consolidated income statement 84 Other investments 105 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 88 Other non-current assets 105 Consumer Healthcare 09,14,17,23,24,78 Other non-current liabilities 113 Contact details 185 Other operating income 78,95 Contingent liabilities 67,68,114 Other provisions 113 Corporate Executive Team 29 Outlook and risk factors 71-74 Corporate governance 27-36 Pensions and other post-employment benets 67,107-112 Corporate responsibility 06,18,183 Pharmaceutical turnover 57-61 Critical accounting policies 64 Presentation of the financial statements 89 Description of business 05-26 Principal Group companies 147-149 Dialogue with shareholders 31 Products and competition 20-23 Directors and Senior Management remuneration 44-54 Property, plant and equipment 66,101-102 Directors interests 48 Quarterly trend 172-177 Directors interests in contracts 54 Reconciliation to US accounting principles 135-146 Directors statements of responsibility 82,165 Regulatory environment 24-26 Dividends 63,100,182 Related party transactions 118 Earnings per share 100 Remuneration Report 37-54 Employee costs 96 Report of the Directors 04-80 Employee share schemes 132-134 Responsibility for environment, health and safety 26 Exchange rates 92,180 Risk factors 71-74 Executive Director terms, conditions and remuneration 42,43 Segment information 93-95 Finance costs 56,63,97 Share capital and share premium 116 Finance income 63,97 Share options 49-51,132-134 Financial instruments and related disclosures 123-131 Shareholder information 182-186 Financial position and resources 66-70 Strategy 06 Financial record 172-181 Taxation 63,97-99 Financial statements 81-170 Taxation information for shareholders 186 Financial summary 04 Total Equity 67 Financial trends and ratios 56 Trade and other payables 66,106 Five year record 178-181 Trade and other receivables 66,106 Foreign exchange risk management 70,123 Trademarks 05,26 Global manufacturing and supply 17 Transition to IFRS 150-156 Glossary of terms 187 Treasury policies 69,70 Goodwill 102 US law and regulation 36 Governance and policy 30 World economy 57 IFRS adjustments 150 World market pharmaceuticals 57 Improve access to medicines 15 Incentive plans 51,52 GSK Annual Report 2005 188 INVESTOR INFORMATION Corporate Website brochure About us Meeting global challenges Our products Commitment to innovation Your health Access to medicines Responsibility Therapy areas In the community Our mission Research & Development A better future What would Investors Media centre you like to know Careers about GSK?
com Corporate Annual responsibility review report Access to medicines An interview with Research and innovation the Chairman and CEO Ethical conduct Focus on the patient Employees The year of the vaccine Annual Human rights Growing brands report Environment Powering performance Community investment Performance highlights Business operating review Summary remuneration report An interview with Corporate governance the Chairman and CEO Summary financial statements Financial summary Shareholder information Description of business Chairman and CEOs Corporate governance closing letter Remuneration report Operating and financial review and prospects Financial statements Notes to the financial statements Investor information Do more, feel better, live longer Head Office and Registered Office GlaxoSmithKline plc 980 Great West Road Designed by CGI London.
Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS Printed by The Midas Press in the UK.
The paper used in the United Kingdom production of this document is made from pulps harvested Tel: 44 0 20 8047 5000 from sustainable forests, also using sawmill residues and www.
Annual Review 2005 human being Do more, feel better, live longer 01 An interview with Sir Christopher Gent, Chairman, and JP Garnier, Chief Executive officer 05 Tachi Yamada, Chairman, Research & Development, Pharmaceuticals 06 Jean Stphenne, President and General Manager, GSK Biologicals 08 John Clarke, President, Consumer Healthcare 11 David Stout, President, Pharmaceutical Operations 14 Performance highlights 15 Business operating review 18 The Board 19 The Corporate Executive Team 20 Summary remuneration report 23 Corporate governance 24 Responsibility statements 25 Summary financial statements 26 Summary information under US GAAP 27 Shareholder information 29 Chairman and CEOs closing letter JP Garnier left and Sir Christopher Gent right Discovering important medicines, eradicating diseases, improving the quality of peoples lives and making medicines available to a greater number of people.
This is what we do and what we do matters to people.
JP Garnier, Chief Executive officer An interview with Sir Christopher Gent, Chairman and JP Garnier, Chief Executive officer 2005: a year of success and progress Thanks to the efforts of our employees around the companys pipeline is one of the largest and most world, 2005 was a very successful year for GSK, says promising in the industry, with 149 projects in clinical JP Garnier, Chief Executive officer.
Not only was it development as at the end of February 2006, our best year ever from a financial standpoint, we also including 95 new chemical entities NCEs, 29 product made substantial progress with our pipeline of line extensions PLEs and 25 vaccines.
innovative new medicines and vaccines.
In 2006, we anticipate further good news on GSKs GSK delivered an excellent financial performance in late-stage pipeline, which is developing at a fast pace.
Turnover of 21.7 billion grew by 7% at Eight major new assets are scheduled to enter phase constant exchange rates CER.
Earnings per share EPS III in 2006, doubling our late-stage pipeline, says JP.
were 82.6p, with growth of 18% at CER, putting GSK in the top tier of global pharmaceutical companies in The pharmaceutical industry is making a terms of performance.
positive improvement to peoples lives.
It These gures confirm the excellent growth of our key has a noble purpose.
It develops medicines products and the efficiency of our global operations, says JP.
and vaccines that save lives and make people feel better.
GSKs performance was driven by sales of key pharmaceutical products.
Sales of Seretide Advair, Sir Christopher Gent, Chairman Avandia, Coreg, Lamictal and Valtrex all continued their impressive growth, says JP.
We also saw good Year of the vaccine performance from a number of newer products, 2005 was a landmark year for GSKs vaccines including Avodart for enlarging prostate, Boniva business.
Sales increased by 15% and the company Bonviva for osteoporosis and Requip for Restless Legs made a number of significant strategic acquisitions.
Syndrome, which all show great promise for the The acquisition of ID Biomedical was an important future, both for patients and GSK.
move for GSK, says JP, which strengthened our Looking into 2006, the strong growth seen from key position in the global u vaccine market, and products and from our vaccines business is expected to increased our ability to prepare for and respond to a continue and we anticipate an EPS growth of around potential u pandemic.
We also acquired a plant in Marietta, Pennsylvania Pipeline progress which will give us access to tissue culture technology GSK continues to meet the challenge of increasing in our vaccine manufacturing.
The acquisition of Corixa Research & Development R&D productivity to discover gives us valuable adjuvant technology, enabling us to new medicines faster and more economically.
The boost human immune response to our vaccines.
GSK Annual Review 2005 01 Private sector expertise is critical for making rapid progress.
In particular, I would like to thank GSK for its commitment to R&D on malaria and on other neglected diseases.
It would make a huge difference if more companies followed GSKs example.
Bill Gates Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, October 2005 3,000 Each day, malaria causes the death of about 3,000 people in sub-Saharan Africa.
Most of them are children.
GSK is working in publicprivate partnerships to create safe and effective vaccines and treatments against malaria.
com On this page you will nd: Access to medicines: Reaching out to patients: Humanitarian response: JP in Africa GSK also made good progress on its pipeline of new Islands of hope vaccines.
We expect five major vaccine launches in In late 2005, JP visited Ghana and South Africa to see the next five years, says JP.
Perhaps most exciting is some of GSKs community activities.
In Ghana, he heard Cervarix for cervical cancer, which we expect to le for how villagers cope with lymphatic lariasis LF or elephantiasis.
LF is a disease that the company, working approval in Europe in March 2006 and in the USA by with the World Health Organization, is striving to eradicate the end of the year.
This LF programme has reached its target in Ghana of treating all ten million people at risk from the Improving access to medicines disease.
In South Africa, JP saw the impact of HIV AIDS GSK continues to seek new ways of improving access and the work of volunteers in a GSK-supported clinic to its medicines for people who need them, but are north of Johannesburg.
least able to obtain them.
This challenge is particularly It was shocking and humbling, yet even in this sea of acute in the developing world, where GSK has been distress there are islands of hope.
I was inspired by the offering many of its medicines and vaccines at not-forpeople who have dedicated their lives to working in these profit prices for some years.
I was able to witness the realities of Africa and whats really important there, says JP.
I am proud of the However, addressing this challenge is something GSK role that GSK is playing.
I am grateful to have experienced cannot do alone.
The work of GSK with organisations these things and, crucially, to be in a position to do such as the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation highlights something about it.
My determination to do more has the benets of public-private partnerships.
provide a way for companies such as GSK and the private sector to work together.
Typically, GSK provides the R&D, technology, manufacturing and distribution expertise, while other partners and governments help fund the development and delivery costs.
Public-private partnerships use the respective strengths of the partners and bring out the best of each.
Most importantly, it is a model that works.
In 2005, GSK entered three groundbreaking publicprivate partnerships to develop vaccines against the biggest causes of death in the developing world today AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis.
The year saw a number of natural disasters, including Reaching out to patients the Asian tsunami, the Guatemalan hurricane, the In 2005, GSK introduced and strengthened a number New Orleans oods and the earthquake that struck of initiatives aimed at improving patients understanding parts of India and Pakistan.
GSK was quick to respond of GSKs medicines, and programmes to help gain access to help victims of these tragedies.
These initiatives include GSKs pioneering our employees for their response to these crises.
It Clinical Trial Register, which was expanded to contain makes me proud to lead an organisation with such 2,125 summaries of clinical trials by the end of 2005. committed and compassionate people, who can respond so effectively to help people in real need, In the USA, GSK is placing more emphasis on says JP.
education and the patient in direct-to-consumer advertising, and providing people with advice on GSKs For these disasters alone, GSK contributed more than programmes and the industrys Partnerships for 3 million in cash and donated medicines and vaccines Prescriptions Assistance which help people gain access valued at over 14 million towards the relief efforts.
to the medicines they need.
The tragedies during the year brought home to me Through these and other initiatives, we are seeking the extent to which the pharmaceutical industry is to differentiate GSK as a company nding solutions making a positive improvement to peoples lives, says to the healthcare challenges that society faces.
It develops I believe we are well on the way to achieving that, medicines and vaccines that save lives and make says Sir Christopher Gent, Chairman.
A broader contribution GSK's global community investment activities in 2005 were valued at 380 million, equivalent to 5.6% of Group profit before tax.
GSK Annual Review 2005 03 For our work at GSK, we 149 GSK had 149 projects in seek greater insight into the clinic at the end of February 2006.
This included 95 new chemical the needs of patients entities NCEs, an increase of 70% over 2001. and to apply these insights in R&D to Moncef Slaoui pictured right, will succeed Tachi create better medicines.
Yamada left as head of R&D in June 2006.
Tachi Yamada, Chairman, Research & Development, Pharmaceuticals On this page you will nd: Patient insight: Partnerships: Maturing pipeline: Confronting cancer Tachi Yamada, Chairman, Research & Development, Pharmaceuticals Focus on the patient Applying insights in R&D for the creation of better medicines Tachi Yamada was a physician and teacher of physicians Confronting cancer before he joined GSK to work with scientists and other Cancer remains an area of substantial unmet medical need.
He retains a passion for helping Our strategy is focused on meeting all aspects of a cancer improve the quality of life for patients and his patients treatment, says Tachi.
GSK is building on its existing oncology portfolio to good effect.
We now have experience as a physician has inuenced his work as an oncology pipeline which is one of the strongest and head of R&D for GSK.
most promising in our industry.
In November 2005, investors and financial analysts were updated on this In the hospital wards, I would sometimes place a rapidly expanding pipeline.
In 2006, GSK expects four new photograph of the patient above their bed, says Tachi.
oncology medicines to be in final-stage clinical trials Tykerb The picture showed them when they were active and lapatinib for breast cancer, eltrombopag for patients with healthy, and I would then challenge my staff to work low platelet count, casopitant to help patients overcome towards the goal of helping the patient back to being the side-effects of chemotherapy and pazopanib for like the person in the picture.
I would urge them to prevention of tumour growth.
focus on the patient and their needs.
Today, it is the same approach for our work at GSK, where we seek greater insight into the needs of patients and to apply these insights in R&D to create better medicines.
GSK projects in clinical development As at February 2006 149 11 118 38% of pipeline 46 Late stage 12 26% of growth pipeline 19 38 25 41 29 25 21 2001 2005 New Chemical Entities NCEs NCEs Phase I Phase III registration Product Line Extensions NCEs Phase II Vaccines registration, 46 NCEs and 9 vaccines were in phase II and 38 NCEs and 7 vaccines were in phase I.
This is an increase of 70% over the number of NCEs that GSK Tachi and his teams also talk to doctors and other had at the end of 2001. healthcare experts to gather information that will help shape the direction and priorities of the complex R&D process that leads to innovative medicines of There has been a marked increase in the value.
Through a range of partnerships, the company size of our NCE portfolio and an increasing has access to the talent, ideas and assets beyond the maturity of the pipeline.
boundaries of its own R&D organisation.
In 2005, GSK set up a new internal management team to Seven product lings are planned for 2006, including deliver more compounds through partnerships with two vaccines Cervarix for cervical cancer and a biotechnology companies, small and mid-sized potential H5N1 pandemic u vaccine see pages 6 pharmaceutical companies and academic institutions.
and 8, Allermist for allergic rhinitis, eltrombopag for A maturing pipeline patients with low platelet count, Tykerb for breast The strength of GSKs work on medicines and vaccines cancer, mepolizumab for hypereosinophilic syndrome of the future can be seen in the product development and Lamictal XR, a once-daily formulation for epilepsy.
pipeline, one that is growing and maturing.
At the end of February 2006, the company had 149 projects in GSK also expects eight major new assets to enter the clinic including 95 new chemical entities NCEs, 25 phase III development during 2006, signicantly vaccines and 29 product line extensions PLEs.
Of expanding the late-stage pipeline.
In addition to the these, 11 NCEs and 9 vaccines were in phase III oncology products, casopitant and pazopanib see GSK Annual Review 2005 05 On this page you will nd: Delivering medicines of value: Vaccines performance: Vaccines pipeline: Vaccines investment Confronting cancer page 5, GSK expects new assets Delivering medicines of value for Alzheimers disease, HIV, meningitis, lupus and GSK has one of the most promising pipelines in the diabetes to enter phase III development.
Our challenge, going forward, is to deliver to patients the many medicines we have in There has been a marked increase in the size of our development, whilst continuing to grow the NCE portfolio and an increasing maturity of the pipeline, says Moncef Slaoui, who will succeed pipeline.
All this indicates that the way we structure Tachi as Chairman, R&D, in June 2006.
Along with R&D is paying off, says Tachi, who is retiring from GSK my colleagues in R&D, we are embracing this in June 2006 to take up a new role as Executive challenge and we fully expect to be able to deliver Director of the Global Health Program for the Bill & medicines of great value for patients and for GSK in Melinda Gates Foundation.
Jean Stphenne, President and General Manager, GSK Biologicals The year of the vaccine Strong growth and a promising pipeline GSK is a world-leading supplier of vaccines.
Our an improved inuenza vaccine for older people: and vaccines business had one of its best years, with sales vaccine combinations against meningitis.
growing by 15% to 1.4 billion, says Jean Stphenne, We know more about the bodys immune system and President and General Manager of GSK Biologicals, the how it works than ever before, which enables us to companys vaccines business.
This growth was led by produce safer, stronger and more targeted vaccines, Infanrix and helped by the launches of Boostrix and says Jean.
Our pipeline of vaccines promises real opporFluarix in the USA.
This, together with a strong product tunities to improve the quality of health worldwide.
pipeline, gives us confidence in the future prospects for our business.
Vaccines investment In 2005, GSK made a number of moves to be a major Vaccines pipeline force in vaccines against inuenza, the subject of With 60 years experience, the company continues to heightened global concern during the year.
The build a very productive R&D pipeline and, in the next company invested over 1 billion to expand its u five years, expects five major new vaccines to be vaccine manufacturing capabilities.
One of these is Cervarix, for the prevention than doubling u vaccine production capacity at its of human papilloma virus HPV, which causes cervical Dresden site to 80 million doses a year by 2008.
GSK cancer a disease second only to breast cancer in the also acquired the Canadian vaccine manufacturer ID list of most common cancers affecting women.
Global clinical trials have shown that Cervarix provides Annual epidemic excellent efcacy against HPV16 and HPV18, which A seasonal epidemic, inuenza is a significant economic are responsible for over 70% of cervical cancers.
burden through hospital and other healthcare costs as well as lost productivity.
The World Health Organization says an estimated 5-15% of the global population is affected with Our pipeline of vaccines promises real upper respiratory tract infections each year.
Although difopportunities to improve the quality cult to assess, annual u epidemics are thought to result in 250,000-500,000 deaths every year around the world.
Cervarix is a genuine breakthrough in womens healthcare.
It meets a clear medical need and the sheer volume of women who will benefit gives it great potential, says Jean.
Cervarix is expected to be submitted for European Union approval in March 2006 and in the USA before the end of the year.
The other major new products expected in the next five years will be Rotarix, for rotavirus gastroenteritis already launched in a number of countries in Latin America, Africa and Asia, with launch in Europe expected in the first half of 2006 : Streptorix, for pneumococcal disease: GSK Annual Review 2005 06 With vaccines, 25 GSK had 25 vaccines in the greatest successes are clinical development at the end of 2005, with five major vaccine launches those we do not know about anticipated in the next five years.
the people who have not suffered or died Egg-based vaccines are produced at Dresden, Germany pictured, from vaccine-preventable diseases.
where GSK is more than doubling u vaccine Jean Stphenne, President and General Manager, GSK Biologicals production capacity.
On this page you will nd: Preparing for a u pandemic: Consumer Healthcare business model: Growth opportunity: Beating tobacco Biomedical and a vaccines production facility in Preparing for a u pandemic Marietta, Pennsylvania, which will focus on the GSK is committed to doing everything it can to development and production of tissue culture support governments and health authorities around technology that will be used for seasonal and pandemic the world in planning responses to a possible global u vaccines.
The company also purchased Corixa in the inuenza pandemic.
The company is developing a USA, a developer of adjuvants, which are agents that prototype H5N1 pandemic vaccine, and clinical trials boost human immune response to vaccine antigens.
testing this vaccine against the H5N1 u strain are taking place in 2006.
This prototype uses an innovative With approval in 2005 by the US Food and Drug adjuvant which may allow lower amounts of antigen Administration FDA, Fluarix became the first to be used, which is essential for manufacturing a large biological product to be reviewed under accelerated number of doses in the event of a pandemic.
The shortage of u vaccine in also invested to signicantly increase production the USA in 2004 was a reminder of the importance of capacity of GSKs antiviral Relenza to help meet vaccines in healthcare, says Jean.
We worked quickly increased global demand.
Work is going on across with US government ofcials to make Fluarix available GSK to anticipate and address all aspects of a potential and increase supply at a critical time.
John Clarke, President, Consumer Healthcare Growing brands Product innovation aligned to consumers needs Aquafresh and Sensodyne toothpaste, Nicorette and to be launched in 2006, accompanied by a consumer NicoDerm smoking cessation products, and Ribena education programme.
Like stopping smoking, weight and Lucozade drinks are among the products that loss requires a change in behaviour.
Often, though, make GSK Consumer Healthcare a leading physicians dont have the training or the time to help manufacturer and marketer of consumer brands.
patients change their behaviour, says John.
The new Consumer Healthcare sales in 2005 were 3 billion, an OTC product will not be a get-slim-quick pill.
Proper increase of 2% over 2004. diet and appropriate exercise will still be part of the overall weight loss programme and our education Redening the business model efforts will be a major component in supporting this.
Like others in the consumer healthcare industry, GSK operates in a competitive and changing environment.
Beating tobacco Consumers are demanding better quality, better value Since GSK Consumer Healthcares pioneering switch of and improved performance, while retailers have Nicorette nicotine gum in the USA in 1996, the company has consolidated and strengthened their negotiating innovated to expand its portfolio, adding a patch and more recently a lozenge.
This has broadened appeal and power, says John Clarke, who succeeded Jack Ziegler successfully helped over five million smokers escape their as President, Consumer Healthcare, in February 2006. tobacco dependence worldwide.
As tobacco kills many users, To conduct business more effectively in this these Consumer Healthcare products really do save lives.
environment, Consumer Healthcare has redened its While GSK is doing good things for public health, the business strategy and operating model to deliver faster opportunities for these nicotine replacement therapy NRT sales growth.
We expect to achieve this growth brands NiQuitin, Nicabate, Commit, NicoDerm CQ and Nicorette continue to expand as countries implement through a vigorous focus on delivering new product smoke-free legislation.
developments that are tightly aligned with consumer needs, says John.
The new structure brings together our R&D, marketing and commercial operating units and gives us greater focus, alignment and simplicity.
Growth opportunity Consumer Healthcare has a particularly exciting new growth opportunity for the business with Alli orlistat, an over-the-counter OTC weight loss medicine.
In January 2006, a FDA Advisory Committee recommended that Alli be approved for OTC use in the USA.
If approved, Alli will be the only FDA-approved weightloss medicine available over-the-counter and is expected GSK Annual Review 2005 08 23 million Millions of people use and 23 million bottles of Lucozade Sport Hydro Active were sold in 2005. trust our Consumer Healthcare The most recent innovation for Lucozade, products every day.
Hydro Active has been specially formulated to We are focused on delivering even better help replace the salts and uids you lose during exercise, keeping you products that give consumers what they need.
better hydrated than water alone.
John Clarke, President, Consumer Healthcare I was really surprised 21 million when the doctor told me I had diabetes.
Nearly 21 million Americans have diabetes, Within a few weeks of almost one-third of whom are undiagnosed.
The incidence of the disease starting Avandia my blood sugar has risen 14% in the past two years.
levels returned to normal Maggie Lopez pictured nds that Avandia helps her to lead the sort of life and I soon had my energy back.
Maggie Lopez, Daytona Beach, Florida, USA On this page you will nd: Pharma key growth drivers: New products: Improving osteoporosis treatments David Stout, President, Pharmaceutical Operations Powering performance Driving growth through people and products Our performance in 2005 was undoubtedly due to published that reinforced the use of Lamictal as first-line the contributions from all our staff around the world, maintenance treatment for bi-polar disorder where the and they deserve congratulations on the years licence allows, and GSK led once-daily Coreg CR with achievements.
Their enthusiasm and passion about the FDA towards the end of 2005. helping to improve healthcare is clear, says David New products Stout, President, Pharmaceutical Operations.
New products also started to deliver significant sales.
Key growth drivers Avodart for enlarging prostate, for example, GSK pharmaceutical sales in 2005 were 18.7 billion, performed well and accounted for over 40% of new an increase of 8% over 2004, led by the companys prescription sales in its class in the USA.
This was key pharmaceutical growth drivers and vaccines see exceptionally fast growth and Avodart will be an page 6.
Our biggest-selling product, Seretide Advair, exciting product for us, says David.
had another strong year and continued to gain market share across all regions, driven by its efcacy in treating Avandia Avandamet goes from strength these debilitating conditions, says David.
We believe physicians accept market share by value in the anti-asthma and COPD and like it, and increasingly use it as a therapy class of 27% in Europe and 33% in the USA, first-line treatment for many patients an increase of two percentage points in both cases compared with 2004. where the licence allows.
Osteoporosis, a disease in which bones become brittle Market share by value and more likely to break, affects an estimated 75 Seretide Advair Avandia Avandamet 40% million people in the USA, Europe and Japan.
An 35 33 31 estimated one in three women will sustain an 29 30% 27 25 osteoporosis-related fracture in their lifetime.
Boniva Bonviva, developed with Roche, was launched 20% 14 in the USA in April 2005, and in several countries in 11 10% Improving treatments Bisphosphonate treatments for osteoporosis involve taking Europe USA Europe USA a tablet with a full glass of water first thing in the morning, September 2004 September 2005 then remaining upright and delaying eating or drinking for 30-60 minutes.
With Boniva Bonviva, women have to Sales of diabetes treatments were also strong.
Diabetes follow this dosing routine just once a month, instead of affects more than 190 million people worldwide.
GSK four times as required with weekly bisphosphonate treatments.
Data have shown that two out of three women launched Avandia for the treatment of type 2 diabetes preferred the once-monthly dosing of Boniva Bonviva over in 1999 and a combination product, Avandamet, for a once-weekly treatment, nding it more convenient.
Avandia Avandamet new injectable form of Boniva was approved for use in the goes from strength to strength.
We believe physicians USA in January 2006.
This quarterly treatment may bring accept and like it, and increasingly use it as a first-line the benets of Boniva for the treatment of postmenopausal treatment for many patients where the licence allows, osteoporosis to even more women.
The product group was expanded further in February 2006 with the launch in the USA of a xeddose combination treatment, Avandaryl, which combines Avandia with a sulfonylurea.
In 2005, Avandia Avandamet achieved a market share by value in oral anti-diabetics of 14% in Europe and 35% in the USA, up 3 and 6 percentage points respectively.
Other growth drivers included Lamictal, Valtrex and Coreg, which did well in their respective markets of bipolar disorder and epilepsy, herpes and heart disease, delivering a total of over 2.1 billion in sales, up 25% over 2004.
During the year new guidelines were GSK Annual Review 2005 11 On this page you will nd: Commercial and operational excellence: Maintaining high standards: Seretide Advair patient prole Europe in September 2005, as the first ever oral communication from senior management to treatment administered as one tablet once-a-month employees on areas where policy is changing or there for postmenopausal osteoporosis.
Since its launch, are concerns about compliance: global induction Boniva has achieved 10% share of new prescriptions courses that include training on the GSK Code of in the oral bisphosphonate market in the USA.
The Conduct to ensure new employees understand the injectable form of Boniva Bonviva was approved for importance of ethical conduct from their first day: and use in the USA, and recommended for approval in an annual certication process which extends to all Europe in January 2006.
It is the first intravenous senior managers globally and all middle managers in bisphosphonate to be approved for the treatment of the UK and USA.
We are committed to ensuring our business practices Another launch in the USA in 2005 was Requip for meet high standards and that our employees behave Restless Legs Syndrome RLS, a chronic and disruptive ethically and honestly.
We strive to operate to high condition characterised by an urge to move the legs, ethical standards, act responsibly and comply with the particularly at night.
The condition is common, underlaw.
This is vital because of the simple fact that GSK diagnosed and can have a significant effect on sleep products are important to the health of people around and daily activities.
Since it was launched for RLS in the the world, says David.
USA, the volume of new prescriptions for Requip has quadrupled, with sales of 156 million, up 34%.
On top of the world Approval in Europe for Requip Adartrel as a treatment In 2005, Mogens Jensen ran and cycled 7,000 miles from for RLS is expected in the first half of 2006. his home in Denmark to a base camp in Tibet as a warm up for his bid to become the first asthmatic to climb Commercial and operational excellence Mount Everest.
Although he was not successful frostbite GSK continued to make good progress towards forced Mogens to abandon his climb not far from the commercial and operational excellence to improve summit his effort displayed a formidable strength of character and physical tness undiminished by disease.
underlying performance, with tight cost control Diagnosed with asthma in 1998, Mogens was determined underpinning operations.
Through the companys not to allow it to control his life and stop his sporting Worldwide Sales Force Excellence initiative, sales activities.
After trying different medications, he found representatives are in a position to strengthen the Seretide very effective in controlling his symptoms.
With product knowledge of physicians so they can deliver the help of Seretide, I have taken control of my asthma patient-specic treatment options more efficiently and and not allowed my asthma to control me, he says.
We are committed to ensuring our business practices meet high standards and that our employees behave ethically and honestly.
In manufacturing and supply, GSK introduced the Vision Factory initiative which is identifying improvements in productivity and cost reduction.
We started the year with some manufacturing problems that stopped production of two medicines at our Cidra plant in Puerto Rico.
Our people are working with the FDA to implement solutions and minimise the interruption to supply, says David.
The learning from this, combined with the Vision Factory initiative, will increase the operational excellence of our manufacturing operations in the future, ensuring product quality and patient safety are paramount.
Maintaining high standards GSK audits its operations to ensure that relevant standards expected, such as those in marketing practices, are reached or exceeded.
GSK has in place a number of mechanisms to support compliance with policies and procedures.
These include direct GSK Annual Review 2005 13 2005 performance highlights 82.6p 4.7bn earnings per share free cash ow 18% CER growth in 2005 increase of 26% over 2004 25 95 vaccines in clinical development NCEs in clinical development at the end of 2005 at the end of 2005 with five major vaccine launches 70% increase over 2001 anticipated in the next five years 35% 27% market share by value of market share by value of Avandia Avandamet in the USA Seretide Advair in Europe increase of 6 percentage increase of 2 percentage points over 2004 points over 2004 380m 136m value of community albendazole tablets donated investment in 2005 to help eliminate lymphatic lariasis equivalent to 5.6% of profit before tax GSK Annual Review 2005 14 Business operating review for the year to 31st December 2005 Excellent 2005 performance for GSK Pharmaceuticals Within Anti-virals, HIV product sales grew 5% to 1.6 GSK continues to be the global leader in respiratory billion, with sales from new products Epzicom Kivexa and pharmaceuticals with sales of its three key products, Lexiva together more than doubling to 226 million Seretide Advair, Flixotide Flovent and Serevent, amounting offsetting the performance of Trizivir down 6% to 303 to 4.0 billion, up 15%.
Sales of Seretide Advair, the million and Epivir down 12% to 261 million.
Sales of Groups largest product grew 22% to 3.0 billion.
the herpes treatment Valtrex grew 21% to 695 million.
Performance is being driven by the USA up 26% to 470 In the USA, Advair sales rose 26% to 1.7 billion, with million where the product is the clear market leader in continued gains in market share throughout the year.
Sales were strong in both European and International markets both up 16% to 1 billion and 0.3 billion Anti-bacterial anti-malarial sales declined 3% worldwide respectively.
and 27% in the USA reecting generic competition.
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area: GSK turnover in 2005 grew 7%, driven by 2005 2004 Growth m m CER % the growth of key products Respiratory 5,054 4,394 14 Central nervous system 3,219 3,462 8 Central nervous system CNS sales declined 8% to 3.2 Anti-virals 2,598 2,359 9 billion.
Total Paxil sales fell 42% to 615 million, due to Anti-bacterials generic competition and the interruption in supply to Paxil anti-malarials 1,519 1,547 3 CR during the year.
Partially mitigating this decline was Metabolic 1,495 1,251 18 the strong performance of the product in Japan, up 17% Vaccines 1,389 1,194 15 to 197 million.
Oncology and emesis 1,016 934 8 Total Wellbutrin product sales fell 2% to 739 million.
Cardiovascular and Wellbutrin IR and SR sales fell 68% to 92 million due to urogenital 1,331 932 41 generic competition but this was largely offset by the Other 1,040 1,027 very strong performance of Wellbutrin XL up 38% to 647 million.
18,661 17,100 8 In Metabolic, the diabetes treatments Avandia Avandamet GSKs underlying growth was driven by continue to perform very strongly, with overall sales of strong sales performance of key products: 1.3 billion up 18%.
In the USA, sales grew 14% to 977 million.
Avandia Avandamet is also establishing a Seretide Advair 3.0 billion up 22% strong position in Europe, with sales rising 52% to 157 Vaccines 1.4 billion up 15% million helped by the launch of Avandamet throughout the region.
Sales in International markets rose 13% to Avandia Avandamet 1.3 billion up 18% 195 million.
Lamictal 0.8 billion up 24% Boniva Bonviva, a new once-monthly oral bisphosphonate Valtrex 0.7 billion up 21% for the treatment of osteoporosis, which was developed Coreg 0.6 billion up 32% with Roche, had a strong launch in the USA and now has a 10% share of new prescriptions for oral bisphosphonates.
Boniva injection, the first-ever quarterly The strong growth of GSKs epilepsy and bi-polar disorder treatment for osteoporosis, was approved in the USA in treatment Lamictal continued, with sales up 24% to 849 January 2006 and received a positive opinion from the million, driven by the indication for the maintenance CHMP in Europe on 27th January 2006. treatment of bi-polar disorder.
The vaccines business performed well with total sales Requip sales rose 34% to 156 million following its launch rising 15% to 1.4 billion, led by Infanrix.
Vaccine sales in the USA for Restless Legs Syndrome RLS in Q2 2005. were particularly strong in the USA, where turnover rose In Europe, final approval of Requip Adartrel for RLS is 26% to 338 million, helped by the launch of two new expected in the first half of 2006. products Fluarix and Boostrix.
GSK Annual Review 2005 15 Business operating review continued In Oncology and emesis, sales of Zofran grew 9% to 837 Operating profit million, driven by the US performance, which was up 12% The operating profit margin increased 2.9 percentage to 639 million.
points as operating profit of 6,874 million increased 19% in sterling terms.
At constant exchange rates In Cardiovascular and urogenital, Coreg for heart disease operating profit increased 16% and the margin increased sales grew 32% to 573 million.
Avodart for benign 2.5 percentage points.
prostatic hyperplasia enlarging prostate had a very strong year with sales more than doubling to 129 million.
By This reected lower charges relating to legal matters and January 2006 the product accounted for 42% of new share-based payments, higher product and asset disposals prescriptions in the US 5-Alpha Reductase Inhibitor market.
and increases in advertising, promotion and selling that were below the rate of turnover growth.
Partially offsetting these items were higher costs related to GSKs submissions to the regulatory authorities programmes to deliver future cost savings and increased in the USA and EU for the first time and R&D expenditure.
approvals during 2005 were: Taxation USA Europe The charge for taxation on profit, amounting to 1,916 Submission 5 7 million, represents an effective tax rate of 28.5% 2004 Approval 6 6 30.4%.
The tax rate in 2005 of 28.5% benefited from 11 13 higher tax relief on actual or potential exercise of share options by employees, arising from the increase in the share price in the year.
Product supply Following FDA inspections in 2003 and 2004, which identied possible deficiencies in manufacturing practices EPS 82.6 pence, growth of 18% at the Groups facility at Cidra in Puerto Rico, the FDA halted distribution of supplies of Paxil CR and Avandamet Earnings per share in March 2005.
This site is engaged in tableting and Full year earnings per share EPS of 82.6 pence increased packaging for a range of GSK products primarily for 18%.
At actual rates of exchange, earnings per share the US market.
In April 2005, the Group reached increased 21%.
The favourable currency impact on EPS agreement with the FDA on a Consent Decree, which of three percentage points reects a strengthening of provides for an independent review of manufacturing at the US dollar and Euro relative to 2004 and compares the site for compliance with FDA requirements.
The Decree with a 1% favourable currency impact on turnover.
This also allows for potential future penalties if GSK fails to difference principally arises from a different mix of meet its terms.
In June 2005, the Group began recurrencies in profits compared with turnover.
supplying the US and other markets with both Paxil CR and Avandamet.
The sales of these products were signicantly impacted in 2005 by this interruption in supply.
Presentation The impact upon Avandamet was mitigated by the With effect from 1st January 2005, GSK has moved switching of patients to Avandia.
For further details see to reporting its financial results in accordance with Note 41 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as in the Annual Report 2005. adopted for use in the European Union.
Consumer Healthcare sales All comparative gures are presented on this basis, The growth in Consumer Healthcare sales of 2% to except that GSK has taken advantage of an 2,999 million comprised an OTC medicines sales increase exemption which permits financial instruments to be of 1% to 1,437 million, a Nutritional healthcare sales accounted for and presented on a UK GAAP basis in increase of 7% to 619 million and an Oral care sales 2004 and 2003 and only in accordance with IAS 32 increase of 2% to 943 million.
Full details of the major differences from UK GAAP as they apply to GSK In OTC, growth from analgesics, up 6%, and respiratory are given in Note 40 to the financial statements f tract, up 5%, helped offset the loss of sales from the Transition to IFRS in the Annual Report 2005. dermatological products divested in 2004.
In Oral care, sales of Sensodyne and the denture care In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is the brands Polident, Poligrip and Corega grew by 12% and Groups practice to discuss its results in terms of 6%, respectively, helping to offset lower sales of other constant exchange rate CER growth.
growth calculated as if the exchange rates used to determine the results of overseas companies in sterling Within Nutritional, Lucozade, up 11%, continued to grow had remained unchanged from those used in the strongly in Europe.
All commentaries are presented in terms of CER unless otherwise stated.
On 23rd January 2006, an FDA Advisory Committee recommended that Alli orlistat be approved for over-thecounter use in the USA to promote weight loss in overweight adults, when used along with a reduced calorie, low-fat diet.
If approved, Alli will be the only FDAapproved weight-loss drug available over-the-counter.
GSK Annual Review 2005 16 Business operating review continued Dividend Tax issues The Board has declared a fourth interim dividend of 14 The Group has open issues with the revenue authorities pence per share, resulting in a dividend for the year of 44 in the USA, UK, Japan and Canada: by far the largest pence per share, a 2 pence increase over the dividend of relates to Glaxo heritage products, in respect of which the 42 pence per share for 2004.
US Internal Revenue Service IRS and HM Revenue & Customs HMRC in the UK have made competing and contradictory claims.
2 pence increase in dividend resulting in 44 GSK has attempted to settle the US dispute, first through pence for the year direct discussion with the IRS and subsequently through discussions between the US and UK authorities under Cash ow the terms of the double tax convention between the two The net cash inow from operating activities after taxation countries: these discussions were terminated in July 2003. paid was 5,958 million, an increase of 1,014 million On 6th January 2004, the IRS issued a Notice of over 2004, arising principally due to higher operating deficiency for the years 1989-1996 claiming additional profits.
The net cash outow from investing activities was 1,660 On 2nd April 2004, the Group led a petition in the US Tax million, an increase of 740 million which reected the Court disputing the IRS claim and seeking a refund of $1 purchase of Corixa and ID Biomedical in 2005 for over 1 billion in taxes.
On 25th January 2005 the IRS issued a billion purchases of businesses in 2004 were 0.3 billion.
further Notice of deficiency for the years 1997-2000 claiming additional federal taxes of $1.9 billion, which the Free cash ow was 4.7 billion, an increase of 26% over Group contested by ling a petition in the US Tax Court on 2004.
Free cash ow is the amount of cash generated by 12th April 2005, to which the IRS led its statutory Answer the business after meeting its obligations for interest, tax on 7th June 2005.
In September 2005, the Court agreed and dividends paid to minority interests, and after capital to consolidate the IRS claims for 1997-2000 with those for expenditure on non-current tangible and intangible assets.
The total claims for these periods amount to $4.6 billion of additional federal taxes Outlook and related interest to 31st December 2005 of $3.7 billion, Seven Pharmaceutical products expected to be net of federal tax relief, giving a total of $8.3 billion.
The Groups petitions against the IRS claims include counterapproved launched in 2006: claims for repayment of federal taxes totalling $1.8 billion, Rotarix for rotavirus based partly by reference to an Advance Pricing Agreement Entereg for post-operative bowel disorders APA between SmithKline Beecham and the IRS covering the transfer pricing of Tagamet between 1991 and 1993.
Trexima for migraine On 23rd December 2004, the IRS led a motion for Avandaryl for diabetes summary judgement to exclude any evidence relating to Coreg CR for heart failure APAs from the court proceedings.
On 31st March 2005, Arranon for cancer the trial judge denied the IRS motion and reserved ruling on the admissibility of APA evidence until full trial, which Altabax for infections is scheduled to commence on 16th October 2006.
Legal proceedings As similar tax issues remain open for 2001 to date, GSK The Group is involved in patent litigation with expects to receive further substantial claims by the IRS for manufacturers seeking to market generic versions of these years.
GSK continues to believe that the profits many of the Groups most important products, including reported by its US subsidiaries for the period 1989 to date, Wellbutrin, Seretide, Avandia, Imitrex, Valtrex, Lamictal on which it has paid taxes in the USA, are more than and Zofran, prior to the expiration of the Groups patents.
sufficient to reect the activities of its US operations.
The Group is currently a defendant in a number of product However, the Group tax creditor balance at 31st liability lawsuits, including class actions, that involve December 2005 of 2.3 billion 2004 1.8 billion substantial claims for damages related to the Groups includes a provision for the estimated amount at which pharmaceutical products.
The Group is also a defendant the IRS dispute might ultimately be settled.
in anti-trust actions led following adverse outcomes in If the IRS were to follow the same methodology as applied prosecution of patent infringement actions.
Further, the previously in respect of these later years, GSK estimates Group is responding to federal and state governmental that the potential unprovided exposure in respect of this investigations in the USA into pricing, marketing and dispute with the IRS for the years 1989-2005 amounted reimbursement of a number of prescription drug to approximately $11.5 billion at 31st December 2005 products.
See Note 41 to the financial statements, Legal 2004 $10.1 billion.
proceedings, in the Annual Report 2005 for a discussion of proceedings and governmental investigations in which GSK is in continuing discussions with HMRC in respect of the Group is currently involved.
UK transfer pricing and other matters which are in dispute for the years 1995 to date.
However, little progress has been made over the past year and consequently these matters may become subject to litigation in due course.
GSK Annual Review 2005 17 The Board The Board of Directors is ultimately accountable for the Groups activities, strategy and financial performance.
Sir Christopher Gent Dr Jean-Pierre Garnier Lawrence Culp Sir Crispin Davis Julian Heslop Sir Deryck Maughan Sir Ian Prosser Dr Ronaldo Schmitz Dr Lucy Shapiro Tom fide Swaan Sir Robert Wilson Dr Tachi Yamada Sir Christopher Gent Aged 57 Dr Ronaldo Schmitz Aged 67 Appointed on 1st June 2004.
Sir Christopher was the Chief Appointed on 23rd May 2000.
Dr Schmitz was Executive officer of Vodafone plc, until his retirement in July 2003.
He formerly a Non-Executive Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc.
He is a Nonis a Non-Executive Director of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc, a member Executive Director of Legal & General Group plc and a member of the of the Financial Reporting Council, a Senior Adviser at Bain & Co. and Board of Directors of Rohm and Haas Company and Cabot Chairman of the advisory board of Reform.
Dr Jean-Pierre Garnier Aged 58 Dr Lucy Shapiro Aged 65 Appointed on 23rd May 2000.
Dr Garnier was Appointed on 23rd May 2000.
Dr Shapiro was appointed an Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham plc in 1992, formerly a Non-Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham plc.
She is and became Chief Executive officer in April 2000.
He is a NonLudwig Professor of Cancer Research in the Department of Executive Director of United Technologies Corporation and a member Developmental Biology and Director of the Beckman Center for of the Board of Trustees of the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships.
He Molecular and Genetic Medicine at the Stanford University School of holds a PhD in pharmacology from the University of Louis Pasteur in Medicine and a Non-Executive Director of Anacor Pharmaceuticals, France and an MBA from Stanford University in the USA.
Inc. She holds a PhD in molecular biology.
Lawrence Culp Aged 42 Tom fide Swaan Aged 59 Appointed on 1st July 2003.
Mr Culp is Appointed on 1st January 2006.
Mr fide Swaan President and Chief Executive officer of Danaher Corporation.
Prior to is a member of the Managing Board of ABN AMRO, of which he was joining Danaher, he held positions in Accenture, previously Andersen Chief Financial officer until 31st December 2005.
He will retire from Consulting.
the Board of ABN AMRO on 1st May 2006.
He is a Non-Executive Director of the Financial Services Authority, a member of the Board of Sir Crispin Davis Aged 56 the Institute of International Finance, Chairman of the Board of the Appointed on 1st July 2003.
Sir Crispin is Chief Netherlands Opera and a member of the Board of the Royal Executive of Reed Elsevier PLC.
Prior to that, he was Chief Executive Concertgebouw Orchestra.
of Aegis Group plc, which he joined from Guinness plc, where he was a member of the main board and Group Managing Director of United Sir Robert Wilson Aged 62 Distillers.
He spent his early career with Procter & Gamble.
Sir Robert is Non-Executive Chairman of BG Group plc and the Economist Group Julian Heslop Aged 52 and was previously Executive Chairman of Rio Tinto.
Mr Heslop joined Glaxo Wellcome as Financial Controller in April 1998.
In January 2001, Dr Tachi Yamada Aged 60 following the merger, he was appointed Senior Vice President, Appointed on 1st January 2004.
Prior to joining Glaxo Wellcome, he held senior Research & Development.
Dr Yamada was a Non-Executive Director, and finance roles at Grand Metropolitan PLC.
subsequently an Executive Director, of SmithKline Beecham plc.
Prior to joining SmithKline Beecham, he was Chairman of the Department of Sir Deryck Maughan Aged 58 Internal Medicine at the University of Michigan Medical School and Appointed on 1st June 2004.
Sir Deryck is a Physician-in-Chief of the University of Michigan Medical Center.
He is a Managing Director of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co.
He was formerly Trustee of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund and a member of the Advisory Chairman and CEO of Citigroup International and of Salomon Brothers Board of Quaker BioVentures, Inc. Inc.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Reuters Group plc as well as serving on the Boards of Directors of Carnegie Hall, Lincoln Center Dr Moncef Slaoui Aged 46 and NYU Medical Center.
He is also an International Advisory Board Chairman Designate, Research & Development.
Dr Slaoui, Senior Vice member of British American Business Inc. and a Board member of the President, Worldwide Business Development, has been appointed to Trilateral Commission.
He served as Vice Chairman of the New York the Board with effect from 17th May 2006, and will succeed Dr Stock Exchange from 1996 to 2000.
Yamada as Chairman, Research & Development on 1st June 2006.
Dr Slaoui joined GSK Biologicals in 1988 where he engineered the Sir Ian Prosser Aged 62 development of a robust vaccines pipeline.
He has a PhD in Molecular Appointed on 23rd May 2000.
Sir Ian Biology and Immunology from Universit Libre fide Bruxelles.
was formerly a Non-Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham plc.
He was Chairman and Chief Executive of Bass plc and ultimately Chairman Other Directors of the demerged InterContinental Hotels Group plc.
He was Chairman Mr John Coombe, formerly Chief Financial officer, retired from the of the World Travel and Tourism Council and the London Stock Board on 31st March 2005.
He is Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of BP plc, a Non-Executive Director of Sara Lee Corporation and a member of the CBI Presidents Committee.
GSK Annual Review 2005 18 The Corporate Executive Team The executive management of the Group is through the Corporate Executive Team CET, comprising the Chief Executive officer, the Chief Financial officer and other senior managers.
JP Garnier Rupert Bondy Ford Calhoun John Clarke Marc Dunoyer Russell Greig Julian Heslop Dan Phelan David Pulman David Stout Chris Viehbacher Andrew Witty Tachi Yamada Jennie Younger JP Garnier David Pulman Chief Executive officer President, Global Manufacturing and Supply David is responsible for the Global Manufacturing and Supply As Chief Executive officer, JP is responsible for the management of the Group.
He oversees all operational aspects of the Group, including Organisation and Global Procurement.
He joined Glaxo in 1978 and establishing policies, objectives and initiatives, and he directs longwas responsible for the North American supply network, manufacturing term strategy.
He was formerly Chief Executive officer of SmithKline strategy and logistics until his current appointment in 2002.
Beecham, having joined the Group in 1990.
David Stout Rupert Bondy President, Pharmaceutical Operations Senior Vice President and General Counsel David is responsible for all pharmaceuticals and vaccines operations Rupert is responsible for legal matters across the Group, together with worldwide, including the USA, Europe, International, Japan and Global Manufacturing and Supply.
He joined SmithKline Beecham in 1996 environmental, health and safety issues, insurance and security.
He was a lawyer in private practice before joining SmithKline Beecham in 1995. and was President, US Pharmaceuticals, until his current appointment in 2003.
Ford Calhoun Chief Information officer Chris Viehbacher President, US Pharmaceuticals Ford is responsible for information technology, a global function that enables key business processes across all parts of the Group.
With doctoral Chris is responsible for US Pharmaceuticals.
He joined Wellcome in and post-doctoral training in microbiology, genetics, biomathematics and 1988 and was responsible for GSKs European Pharmaceuticals computer science, he joined Smith Kline & French in 1984. business before his current appointment in 2003.
John Clarke Andrew Witty President, Consumer Healthcare President, Pharmaceuticals Europe John Clarke succeeded Jack Ziegler as President, Consumer Healthcare Andrew is responsible for the Groups pharmaceuticals operations in Europe.
He joined Glaxo in 1985 and was Senior Vice President, Asia on 31st January 2006.
He joined Beecham in 1976 and progressed through roles in Australasia, South Africa, The Far East, Japan, Canada Pacic until his current appointment in 2003. and the UK.
From 1998 to 2003, John was President, Consumer Tachi Yamada Healthcare Europe, and in 2004, appointed President, Futures Group.
Chairman, Research & Development Tachi leads the Groups complex business of drug discovery and Marc Dunoyer President, Pharmaceuticals Japan development.
He joined SmithKline Beecham in 1994 as a Non-Executive Marc was appointed President, Pharmaceuticals Japan in March 2003.
Director and became Chairman, R&D Pharmaceuticals in 1999.
He will He joined the Group in 1999 and was Senior Vice President and retire on 1st June 2006.
Regional Director, Japan until his current appointment.
Jennie Younger Russell Greig Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications & President, Pharmaceuticals International Community Partnerships Russell leads the pharmaceutical operations outside the USA, Japan Jennie is responsible for the Groups internal and external communications, its image and partnerships with global communities.
and most of Europe, covering more than 100 countries.
He joined the Group in 1980 and was Senior Vice President, Worldwide Business She joined Glaxo Wellcome in 1996 as Director of Investor Relations Development for R&D prior to his current appointment in March 2003. and was appointed to her current position in 2001.
Moncef Slaoui Julian Heslop Chairman Designate, Research & Development Chief Financial officer Julian became Chief Financial officer on 1st April 2005.
As head of the Moncef will succeed Tachi Yamada as Chairman, Research & finance function he is responsible for activities such as financial Development on 1st June.
He will join the CET on 17th May.
He joined reporting and control, tax and treasury, investor relations, finance the Group in 1988 and is currently Senior Vice President, Worldwide Business Development.
systems, internal audit and real estate.
He joined Glaxo Wellcome as Financial Controller in April 1998.
Other members Dan Phelan John Coombe retired as Chief Financial officer on 31st March 2005.
Jack Ziegler retired as head of the Consumer Healthcare business on Senior Vice President, Human Resources Dan is responsible for benets, compensation, recruitment, organisation 31st January 2006.
Robert Ingram continues to work part-time as Vice development, leadership development and succession planning, human Chairman of Pharmaceuticals, acting as a special advisor to the Group resource information systems and employee health management.
and attending CET meetings in that capacity.
He was a lawyer in private practice before joining Smith Kline & French in 1981.
GSK Annual Review 2005 19 Summary Remuneration Report for the year to 31st December 2005 INTRODUCTION performance conditions would be based on the The Summary Remuneration Report sets out the annual measurable delivery of strong financial performance and remuneration of the Board earned in 2005, together with the delivery of superior returns to shareholders as any gains under long-term incentive arrangements.
It also compared with other pharmaceutical companies: describes the background and outlines the Groups rea high proportion of the total remuneration opportunity muneration policy, together with the performance graph will be based on performance-related remuneration, required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regwhich will be delivered over the medium-term to longulations 2002 the Regulations.
term: and The Remuneration Committee the Committee is no ex-gratia payments will be made.
responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the companys remuneration policy and, within the Overall, the policy is intended to provide median total terms of the agreed policy, determining the total individual remuneration for median performance.
Poor performance remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and will result in total remuneration signicantly below the members of the CET Executives.
The members of the pay comparator group median, with the opportunity to Committee are set out on page 23. earn upper quartile total remuneration for exceptional performance.
The Committee has developed the remuneration policy to align executive remuneration with the interests of shareThis strong alignment with performance is demonstrably holders whilst meeting the imperative of recruiting and in the interests of shareholders and provides the Executives retaining the executive talent essential to the leadership with unambiguous signals about the importance of of the company.
delivering success to the companys shareholders.
The remuneration policy was nalised after undertaking Commitment an extensive consultation process with shareholders and The Committee will apply this policy on a consistent and institutional bodies during the course of 2003 and 2004. transparent basis.
Any significant change will be discussed with shareholders in advance of implementation.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee continues Pay and performance comparators to have regular dialogue with institutional investors The following table sets out the companies used for pay regarding GSKs remuneration policy.
and performance comparison: Market The remuneration policy is designed to establish a Capitalisation framework for remuneration which is consistent with the 31.12.05 companys scale and scope of operations, meets the Company Country m recruitment needs of the business and is closely aligned Abbott Laboratories USA 35,561 with shareholder guidelines.
AstraZeneca UK 44,693 Bristol-Myers Squibb USA 26,140 Deloitte & Touche LLP have been appointed by the Eli Lilly USA 37,396 Committee to provide it with independent advice on GlaxoSmithKline UK 85,497 executive remuneration.
Johnson & Johnson USA 103,950 Merck USA 40,440 REMUNERATION POLICY Novartis Switzerland 80,419 Principles Pzer USA 99,942 The Committee has established four core principles Roche Holdings Switzerland 61,334 which underpin GSKs remuneration policy.
These are: Sano-Aventis France 70,997 securing outstanding executive talent: Schering-Plough USA 17,915 Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Japan 27,949 pay for performance and only for performance: Wyeth USA 35,952 robust and transparent governance structures: and GSKs executive remuneration consists of the a commitment to be a leader of good remuneration following components: practice in the pharmaceutical industry.
Base salary In formulating the policy, the Committee decided that: Base salaries are set by reference to the median for the the remuneration structure must support the business relevant market.
For executives this is the pharmaceutical in a very competitive market place: pay comparator group.
Base salary is the only element of remuneration that is xed.
UK shareholder guidelines will be followed to the maximum extent consistent with the needs of the business Annual bonus and the company would maintain a regular dialogue All bonuses are determined on the basis of a formal review with shareholders: of annual performance against stretching financial targets based on profit before interest and tax and are subject to global pharmaceutical companies are the primary pay detailed assessment of individual, business unit and group comparator group: achievements against objectives.
In determining the bonus awards for 2005, the Committee took into account the excellent financial performance during the year and the encouraging progress in building the pipeline of new products.
GSK Annual Review 2005 20 Summary Remuneration Report continued Long-term incentives The Committee has decided that for the awards granted The remuneration policy provides that annual long-term since 2004, there will be no performance retesting, so if incentive awards will normally be made up of a perforthe performance condition is not met after the three-year mance share award and a share option award.
The period, the option will lapse.
remuneration policy places greater emphasis on the use The performance criteria relating to performance shares of performance shares rather than share options.
and share options awarded and granted prior to 2006 are The Committee has considered which performance given in the Annual Report 2005. conditions should be applied to the long-term incentives.
Pensions The Committee concluded that it was appropriate to The Executives participate in GSK senior executive pension measure performance using a combination of absolute plans.
The pension arrangements are structured in financial results based on earnings per share EPS and accordance with the plans operated for executives in the the delivery of superior value to shareholders based on country in which the executives are likely to retire.
Benets Total Shareholder Return TSR measured against the are normally payable at age 60, although it was agreed comparator group.
that Dr Yamada could retire at age 62, he will retire from For the Executives, the level of performance shares vesting the company on 1st June 2006. is based on the companys TSR relative to the performance comparator group over a three-year measurement period.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR TERMS AND CONDITIONS If GSK is ranked at position seven the mid-point of the The policy regarding the Executive Directors contracts performance comparator group, 35% of the shares will was the subject of extensive review and change during vest and if it is below that position then none of the shares 2003.
This resulted in a new framework for contracts for will vest.
Only if GSK is one of the top two companies will Executive Directors appointed in the future.
When determining vesting levels, Dr Garnier and Dr Yamada agreed to changes in their the Committee will have regard to the companys contractual terms without compensation to bring their underlying financial performance.
contractual terms broadly in line with the new contractual The performance conditions applying to the share options framework, including the reduction of contractual notice granted to the Executives are linked to the achievement period from 24 to 12 calendar months.
However, to of compound annual EPS growth in excess of the Retail honour certain aspects of their old contractual terms, Prices Index RPI over three year performance periods.
there are a number of individual features which will be retained.
In the event of early termination by the When setting EPS targets, the Committee considers the company, Dr Garnier and Dr Yamada would receive a cash companys internal projections and analysts forecasts for sum equivalent to the total of their annual salary, on target GSKs EPS performance, as well as analysts forecasts for bonus and pension contributions for the 12 months notice the pharmaceutical industry.
Vesting of share options granted in February 2006 Mr Heslops contract follows the new framework.
increases on a straight-line basis for EPS performance between the hurdles as set out in the graph below.
TSR performance graph The graph below sets out the performance of the company relative to the FTSE 100 index of which the company is a Exceptional 100% constituent and to the performance comparator group.
It has been prepared in accordance with the Regulations and Superior is not an indication of the likely vesting of awards granted Baseline under any of the incentive plans.
Threshold 50% 110 100 0% 90 RPI 3% RPI 4% RPI 5% RPI 6% p. a. p. a. p. a. p. a. EPS Target 80 This performance condition is substantially consistent with UK shareholder guidelines and expectations and is 70 demanding when compared with those operated by other global pharmaceutical companies.
This is consistent with 60 the policy of providing pay for performance and only for 31 12 00 31 12 01 31 12 02 31 12 03 31 12 04 31 12 05 performance.
GlaxoSmithKline Total Return Index GlaxoSmithKline Pharma Peers Return Index FTSE 100 Total Return Index GSK Annual Review 2005 21 Vesting percentage Summary Remuneration Report continued ANNUAL REMUNERATION 2005 2004 Fees and Other Annual Deferred Total annual Total annual salary benets bonus bonus remuneration remuneration Directors of GSK 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Dr JP Garnier $1,582 $641 $2,812 $1,556 $6,591 $4,559 Mr J Heslop 240 9 280 529 Dr T Yamada $763 $739 $1,110 $698 $3,310 $2,303 Former Executive Director Mr J Coombe 139 32 171 515 Total Executive Directors 1,667 799 2,436 1,238 6,140 4,265 Current Non-Executive Directors Mr L Culp $136 $136 $97 Sir Crispin Davis 70 70 57 Sir Christopher Gent 500 500 175 Sir Deryck Maughan $146 $146 $57 Sir Ian Prosser 100 100 65 Dr R Schmitz 95 95 72 Dr L Shapiro $230 $230 $182 Sir Robert Wilson 90 90 66 Former Non-Executive Directors Dr M Barzach 58 58 78 Sir Christopher Hogg 370 Sir Roger Hurn 5 5 Sir Peter Job 5 5 57 Mr J McArthur $60 Mr D McHenry $42 Sir Richard Sykes 1 1 1 Total Non-Executive Directors 1,195 11 1,206 1,180 Total remuneration 2,862 810 2,436 1,238 7,346 5,445 Remuneration for Directors on the US payroll is reported in Dollars.
Amounts have been converted to Sterling at the average exchange rates for each year.
Following the merger, those participants in the legacy schemes who elected to exchange their legacy options for options over GSK shares were granted an additional cash benefit equal to 10% of the grant price of the original option.
This additional benefit known as the Exchange Offer Incentive EOI is only payable when the new option is exercised or lapses above market value.
During the year Dr Garnier received $174,472 2004 $335,730 and Dr Yamada received $167,405 2004 nil relating to options exercised under the EOI.
Those amounts are included in other benets in the table above.
Non-Executive Directors are required to receive a significant part of their fees in the form of shares or ADSs and from 1st October 2004, all Non-Executive Directors, except the Chairman, are required to take at least 25% of fees under the fee allocation arrangement.
They can also elect to invest part or all of the remaining balance of their fees in the form of shares or ADSs.
The value of these shares and ADSs at the dates of award are included in fees and salary above.
These shares and ADSs are not paid out until the Director leaves the Board.
In addition to annual compensation, GSK operates share plans to provide incentives to Executive Directors to achieve longer-term growth in shareholder value.
Gains under such plans are recognised on exercise or maturity of the award, but reect value earned over a period of years.
The timing of exercise is normally at the discretion of the Director.
Full details relating to the operation of the companys share plans may be found in the 2005 Annual Report.
In 2001, following the merger, Dr Garnier, Mr Coombe and Dr Yamada were awarded a one-off special deferred bonus as members of the CET.
Each was awarded an amount equivalent to his salary on 31st December 2001 and this was notionally invested in GSK shares or ADSs on 15th February 2002.
The amount of the bonus vesting on 15th February 2005 was equivalent to the then value of shares or ADSs notionally acquired in February 2002 plus dividends reinvested over the period.
These amounts were paid in February 2005 and are included in the table above.
Mr Coombe waived his entitlements to the 2001 special deferred bonus of 383,924, 2004 annual bonus of 650,370 and prorated 2005 bonus of 106,870.
The company made a contribution in 2005 to the pension plan of 1,141,164 to enhance his pension entitlement.
Mr fide Swaan joined the Board as a non-executive Director on 1st January 2006.
No remuneration is shown for him in the table above.
The accrued annual benets under the dened benefit pension schemes operated by the Group were: Dr Garnier $1,092,697: Mr Heslop 74,505: and Dr Yamada $209,631.
In addition, Dr Garnier and Dr Yamada are members of a money purchase scheme into which contributions of $154,172 and $73,679, respectively, were paid during 2005.
None of the above Directors received expenses during the year requiring separate disclosure as dened by the Regulations.
GSK Annual Review 2005 22 Corporate governance GOVERNANCE AND POLICY Audit Committee The Board and Corporate Executive Team The Audit Committee reviews the financial and internal The Directors are listed under The Board on page 18. reporting process, the system of internal control and management of risks and the external and internal audit The Board is responsible for the Groups system of process.
The Committee also proposes to shareholders corporate governance and is ultimately accountable for the appointment of the external auditors and is directly the Groups activities, strategy and financial performance.
responsible for their remuneration and oversight of their The CEO is responsible for executive management of the work.
The Committee consists entirely of independent Group and is assisted in this by the CET.
The CET meets Non-Executive Directors.
It meets at least four times a year.
11 times per year and otherwise as necessary.
The Remuneration Committee members and their responsibilities are listed under The Remuneration Committee determines the terms of Corporate Executive Team on page 19. service and remuneration of the Executive Directors and The Board comprises three Executive and nine Nonmembers of the CET and, with the assistance of external Executive Directors.
Whilst the Board considers all of its independent advisors, it evaluates and makes Non-Executive Directors to be independent in character recommendations to the Board on overall executive and judgement, it has determined that Dr Shapiro should remuneration policy.
The Committee consists entirely of not be considered as independent under the Combined independent Non-Executive Directors.
It meets at least Code on Corporate Governance Combined Code.
This four times a year and otherwise as necessary.
is due to the remuneration that she receives from the Nominations Committee Group as a member of the GSK scientific Advisory Board.
The Nominations Committee reviews the structure, size The Board considers that Mr Culp, Sir Crispin Davis, Sir and composition of the Board and the appointment of Deryck Maughan, Sir Ian Prosser, Dr Schmitz, Mr fide Swaan members of the Board and the CET, and makes and Sir Robert Wilson are independent under the Combined recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
Sir Ian Prosser is the Senior Independent Director.
Committee also monitors the planning of succession to the Board and Senior Management.
The Committee Throughout 2005 and up to the date of this publication, consists entirely of Non-Executive Directors, of whom a a majority of the Board members, excluding the Chairman, majority are independent, and meets at least once a year were independent Non-Executive Directors, in accordance and otherwise as necessary.
with the recommendations of the Combined Code.
Corporate Responsibility Committee Board process The Corporate Responsibility Committee consists entirely The Board meets at least six times a year.
It has a formal of Non-Executive Directors and provides a Board level schedule of matters reserved to it for decision but forum for the regular review of external issues that have otherwise delegates specic responsibilities to Board the potential for serious impact upon the Groups business committees, as described below.
The Board works to an and reputation and for the oversight of reputation agreed business agenda in reviewing the key activities of management.
The Committee is also responsible for the business, and receives papers and presentations to annual governance oversight of the Groups worldwide enable it to do so effectively.
The Board considers and donations and community support.
The Committee meets reviews the work undertaken by its Committees.
formally three times a year and otherwise as necessary.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board and is Financial Results Committee available to individual Directors in respect of Board The Financial Results Committee reviews and approves, on procedures.
The Company Secretary is Mr Simon Bicknell, behalf of the Board, the Annual Report and Form 20-F, the a barrister, who was appointed in May 2000 and joined Annual Review and the convening of the AGM, together GSK in 1984.
He is secretary to all the Board Committees.
with the preliminary and quarterly statements of trading Board Committees results.
Each Director is a member of the Committee and The Board has established a number of committees.
the quorum for a meeting is any three members.
To be Executive Directors are not members of the Audit, quorate, each meeting must include the Chairman or the Remuneration, Nominations or Corporate Responsibility Chairman of the Audit Committee and the CEO or the Committees, although they may be invited to attend CFO.
The Committee meets as necessary.
Each Director is a member of the Corporate Corporate Administration & Transactions Administration &Transactions and Financial Results Committee Committees.
Membership of these Committees is shown The Corporate Administration & Transactions Committee in the table below.
reviews and approves matters in connection with the Corporate administration of the Groups business, and certain Audit Remuneration Nominations Responsibility corporate transactions.
The Committee consists of the Sir Christopher Gent C C Directors, CET members and the Company Secretary.
The Mr L Culp M Committee meets as necessary.
Sir Crispin Davis M Sir Deryck Maughan M Remuneration of Directors Sir Ian Prosser M M M Information on the remuneration of Directors is given in Dr R Schmitz C M M Dr L Shapiro M the Summary Remuneration Report on pages 20 to 22.
Mr fide Swaan M Sir Robert Wilson M C Mr fide Swaan will succeed Dr Schmitz as Chairman of the Audit Committee from September 2006.
GSK Annual Review 2005 23 Responsibility statements ANNUAL REVIEW INDEPENDENT AUDITORS STATEMENT TO THE The Annual Review is a summary report and does not MEMBERS OF GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC contain sufficient information to allow as full an underWe have examined the Summary financial statements standing of the results and state of affairs of the Group which comprise the Summary consolidated income as is provided by the Annual Report 2005.
Shareholders statement, Summary consolidated balance sheet and requiring more detailed information may obtain, free of Summary consolidated cash ow statement and the charge, a copy of the Annual Report and may also elect Summary Report of the Directors including the Summary to receive a copy of the Annual Report in future years Remuneration Report.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Independent Auditors report on the full financial The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual statements of the Group for the year ended 31st Review in accordance with applicable law.
Our responDecember 2005 is unqualied and does not contain any sibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency statement concerning inadequate accounting records or of the Summary financial statements within the Annual failure to obtain necessary information and explanations.
Review with the Annual financial statements, the Report of the Directors and the Directors Remuneration Report, STATEMENT BY THE DIRECTORS and its compliance with the relevant requirements of The Annual Review 2005 is the Summary Directors report Section 251 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and includes the Summary financial statements of Glaxoand the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the SmithKline plc for the year ended 31st December 2005, other information contained in the Annual Review and which is published in hard-copy printed form and on the consider the implications for our report if we become website.
The Business operating review, the Summary aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconfinancial statements, the Summary Remuneration Report sistencies with the Summary financial statements.
and the Statement on corporate governance are summaries These statements, including the opinion, have been preof information in the Annual Report 2005. pared for and only for the companys members as a body profit attributable to shareholders and total equity are also in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act restated in accordance with US GAAP as additional 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this information provided to US shareholders.
opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this statement The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and is shown or into whose hands it may come save where integrity of the Annual Review on the website in accordance expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
with the UK legislation governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
Access to the website Basis of opinion is available from outside the UK, where comparable We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin legislation may be different.
1999 6, The auditors statement on the Summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use CORPORATE GOVERNANCE in the United Kingdom.
The Combined Code on Corporate Governance is specified Opinion by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority for In our opinion the Summary financial statements are conthe guidance of listed companies Combined Code.
The sistent with the Annual consolidated financial statements, Board considers that throughout 2005 and up to the date the Report of the Directors and the Remuneration Report of approval of this review, GlaxoSmithKline plc applied of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31st December the principles of the Combined Code and, with the 2005 and comply with the applicable requirements of exception of matters where the companys position is Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the described in the Annual Report, complied with the regulations made thereunder.
provisions of the Combined Code, and the guidance on internal control issued by the 1998 Turnbull Committee.
The Annual Review, including Summary financial statements, has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by Sir Christopher Gent  LLP Chairman Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 1st March 2006 London 1st March 2006 GSK Annual Review 2005 24 Summary financial statements SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 2005 Growth 2004 m CER% m Turnover Pharmaceutical 18,661 8 17,100 Consumer Healthcare 2,999 2 2,886 Total turnover 21,660 7 19,986 Cost of sales 4,764 8 4,360 Gross profit 16,896 7 15,626 Selling, general and administration 7,250 7,201 Research and development 3,136 8 2,904 Other operating income 364 235 Operating profit 6,874 16 5,756 Finance income 257 176 Finance costs 451 362 Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 52 60 profit on disposal of interest in associates 149 profit before taxation 6,732 13 5,779 Taxation 1,916 1,757 profit after taxation for the year 4,816 17 4,022 profit attributable to minority interests 127 114 profit attributable to shareholders 4,689 3,908 4,816 4,022 Basic earnings per share pence 82.6p 18 68.1p Diluted earnings per share pence 82.0p 68.0p SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 2005 2004 m m Total non-current assets 14,021 12,164 Total current assets 13,177 10,780 Total assets 27,198 22,944 Total current liabilities 9,511 8,564 Total non-current liabilities 10,117 8,443 Total liabilities 19,628 17,007 Net assets 7,570 5,937 Shareholders equity 7,311 5,724 Minority interests 259 213 Total equity 7,570 5,937 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 2005 2004 m m Net cash inow from operating activities 5,958 4,944 Net cash outow from investing activities 1,660 920 Net cash outow from nancing activities 2,914 3,407 Increase in cash in the year 1,384 617 Exchange adjustments 233 93 Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 2,355 1,831 Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 3,972 2,355 Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year comprise: Cash and cash equivalents 4,209 2,467 Overdrafts 237 112 3,972 2,355 GSK Annual Review 2005 25 Summary information under US GAAP The following is a summary of the material adjustments to profit and shareholders funds which would be required if US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles US GAAP had been applied instead of IFRS.
PROFIT 2005 2004 m m profit after taxation for the year under IFRS 4,816 4,022 profit attribtable to minority interests 127 114 profit attributable to shareholders under IFRS 4,689 3,908 US GAAP adjustments: Product rights 1,682 1,651 Capitalised interest 1 17 Disposal of interests in associates and subsidiaries 97 Equity investments 2 30 Employee costs 121 113 Derivative instruments and hedging 30 50 Restructuring 1 12 Taxation 538 747 Other 56 53 Net income under US GAAP 3,336 2,732 Basic income per share under US GAAP 58.8p 47.6p Diluted income per share under US GAAP 58.3p 47.5p EQUITY SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS 2005 2004 m m Total equity under IFRS 7,570 5,937 Minority interests 259 213 Shareholders equity under IFRS 7,311 5,724 US GAAP adjustments: Product rights and goodwill 30,041 31,573 Fixed assets 212 223 Marketable securities 49 Other investments 576 532 Employee costs 1,249 1,230 Restructuring 65 80 Derivative instruments and hedging 33 2 Dividends 568 571 Deferred taxation 4,531 4,840 Other 40 40 Shareholders equity under US GAAP 34,282 34,042 A summary of the material differences between IFRS and US GAAP that apply to the Group is set out in the Annual Report 2005.
GSK Annual Review 2005 26 Shareholder information FINANCIAL REPORTING DIVIDENDS Financial reporting calendar 2006 GSK pays dividends quarterly.
Announcement of 1st Quarter Results The Board has declared dividends for 2005 as follows: April 2006 2005 2004 Announcement of 2nd Quarter Results Dividends per share pence pence July 2006 First interim paid 7th July 2005 10 10 Announcement of 3rd Quarter Results Second interim paid 6th October 2005 10 10 October 2006 Third interim paid 5th January 2006 10 10 Fourth interim payable 6th April 2006 14 12 Preliminary Announcement of Annual Results February 2007 Total 44 42 Publication of Annual Report Review As a guide to holders of ADRs, the table below sets out March 2007 the dividends paid per ADS in US dollars in the last five years translated into US dollars at applicable exchange Results Announcements rates.
Results Announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange and are available on its news service.
Shortly Year US$ afterwards, they are issued to the media, are made 2005 1.57 available on the website and are submitted to the US 2004 1.53 Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York 2003 1.39 Stock Exchange.
2002 1.24 2001 1.11 Financial reports The company publishes an Annual Report and, for the Dividend calendar investor not needing the full detail of the Report, an Fourth quarter 2005 Annual Review.
These are available on the website.
The Ex-dividend date 15th February 2006 Annual Review is sent to all shareholders on the date of Record date 17th February 2006 publication.
Shareholders may also elect to receive the Payable 6th April 2006 Annual Report by writing to the companys registrars.
Alternatively, shareholders may elect to receive notication First quarter 2006 by email of the publication of financial reports by Ex-dividend date 10th May 2006 registering on www.
Copies of previous Record date 12th May 2006 financial reports are available on the website.
Printed Payable 6th July 2006 copies can be obtained from the registrar in the UK and from the Customer Response Center in the USA.
Second quarter 2006 Publications Ex-dividend date 2nd August 2006 In late March 2006 GSK will publish on the website its Record date 4th August 2006 Corporate Responsibility Report covering performance in Payable 5th October 2006 areas including community investment, ethics and Third quarter 2006 integrity, access to medicines, R&D, environment and health and safety.
Ex-dividend date 1st November 2006 Record date 3rd November 2006 SHARE PRICE Payable 4th January 2007 2005 2004 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2005 At 1st January 12.22 12.80 The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Queen High during the year 15.44 12.99 Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Low during the year 11.75 10.42 Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on 17th May 2006.
At 31st December 14.69 12.22 Increase decrease 20% 5% CAUTIONARY STATEMENT The table above sets out the middle market closing prices Under the safe harbor provisions of the US Private derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the company List.
The companys share price increased by 20% in 2005 cautions investors that any forward looking statements from a price of 12.22 at 1st January 2005 to 14.69 at or projections made by the company, including those 31st December 2005.
This compares with an increase in made in this Annual Review, are subject to risks and the FTSE 100 index of 17% during the year.
uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
Factors that may affect Market capitalisation the Groups operations are described under Legal The market capitalisation of GSK at 31st December 2005 proceedings and Risk factors in the companys Annual was 85 billion.
At that date GSK was the fourth largest Report 2005. company by market capitalisation on the FTSE index.
GSK Annual Review 2005 27 Shareholder information continued SMITHKLINE BEECHAM PLC FLOATING RATE ORDINARY SHARES UNSECURED LOAN STOCK 1990 2010 The companys shares are listed on the London Stock The loan stock is not listed on any exchange but holders Exchange LSE.
may require SmithKline Beecham plc to redeem their loan stock at par, i. e. 1 for every 1 of loan stock held, on the Registrar first business day of March, June, September and The companys registrars are: December.
Holders wishing to redeem all or part of their Lloyds TSB Registrars loan stock should complete the notice on the back of their The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA loan stock certicate and return it to the registrar, to arrive www.
co. uk at least 30 days before the relevant redemption date.
Tel: 0870 600 3991 inside the UK The provision of the details on this page is not intended Tel: 44 0 121 415 7067 outside the UK to be an invitation or inducement to engage in an The registrars also provide the following services: investment activity.
Advice on share dealing should be obtained from a stockbroker or independent financial GlaxoSmithKline Investment Plan adviser.
GlaxoSmithKline Individual Savings Account GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Sponsored Nominee SHARE BUY-BACK PROGRAMME Shareview service A total of 6.5 billion has been spent by the company Shareview dealing service since 2001 on buying its own shares for cancellation or Share dealing service to be held as Treasury shares, of which 1 billion was spent Hoare Govett operate a postal dealing service in the in 2005.
The programme covers purchases by the companys ordinary shares.
It enables investors to buy or company of shares for cancellation or to be held as sell shares at competitive commission charges.
Further Treasury shares, in accordance with the authority given details may be obtained by telephoning 44 0 20 7661 by shareholders at the AGM in 2005.
In May 2005 the company was authorised to purchase a Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham maximum of 586.4 million shares.
During 2005 72.8 corporate PEPs million shares were purchased and held as Treasury shares The Share Centre Limited see Note 31 to the financial statements, Share capital Oxford House, Oxford Road, Aylesbury, Bucks HP21 8SZ and share premium account in the Annual Report 2005.
Tel: 44 0 1296 414 141 The exact amount and timing of future purchases, and the extent to which repurchased shares will be held as AMERICAN DEPOSITARY SHARES Treasury shares rather than being cancelled, will be The companys shares are listed on the New York Stock determined by the company and is dependent on market Exchange NYSE in the form of American Depositary conditions and other factors.
Shares ADSs and these are evidenced by American Depositary Receipts ADRs, each one of which represents INTERNET two ordinary shares.
Information about the company, including details of the In general, the NYSEs rules permit the company to follow share price, is available on GSKs website at www.
com UK corporate governance practices instead of those that Information made available on the website does not apply in the US, provided that the company explains any constitute part of this Annual Review.
This explanation is provided on the companys website.
TRADEMARKS ADR programme administrator Brand names appearing in italics throughout this The ADR programme is administered by: publication are trademarks either owned by and or licensed to GSK or associated companies, with the The Bank of New York exception of Boniva Bonviva, a trademark of Roche, Shareholder Relations Entereg, a trademark of Adolor Corporation, and PO Box 11258, Church Street Station Nicoderm, a trademark of Sano-Aventis, Elan, Novartis New York NY 10286-1258 or GSK in certain countries, all of which are used in certain www.
com countries under license by the Group.
Tel: 1 877 353 1154 toll free Tel: 1 212 815 3700 outside the USA INVESTOR RELATIONS Customer Response Center Investor Relations may be contacted as follows: Tel: 1 888 825 5249 toll free UK The administrators also provide Global BuyDIRECT, a direct 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS ADS purchase sale and dividend reinvestment plan for Tel: 44 0 20 8047 5557 5558 ADR holders.
Fax: 44 0 20 8047 7807 USA One Franklin Plaza, PO Box 7929, Philadelphia PA 19101 Tel: 1 888 825 5249 toll free Tel: 1 215 751 4638 outside the USA Fax: 1 919 315 3344 GSK Annual Review 2005 28 Chairman and CEOs closing letter Dear shareholder We value our investors and hope this Annual Review has highlighted what your company achieved during the year and what we are aiming to do in the future.
We remain focused on delivering performance and making your company one you can be proud of.
We continue to meet the challenges of improving productivity in R&D and ensuring patients have access to medicines, even in the poorest parts of the world.
This review highlights some of the work we have done to implement our strategies to meet these challenges.
Behind each one is a human story.
We thank all our employees for their efforts in 2005.
Their commitment and passion, both individually and through their teamwork, have helped us make GSK the success it is today.
We also appreciate the great support our employees receive from their families for the work they are doing at GSK.
We are grateful for the significant contribution of Tachi Yamada, Chairman of R&D and Executive Director, who is to retire in June 2006, and we welcome Moncef Slaoui, who will succeed Tachi with effect from 1st June 2006.
We would also like to thank Jack Ziegler, President of GSK Consumer Healthcare, who retired from the company in January 2006, and welcome his successor, John Clarke.
We also thank Dr Lucy Shapiro, who is to retire as a Non-Executive Director at the companys Annual General Meeting in May 2006, and we welcome Tom fide Swaan, who joined the Board in January 2006 as a new Non-Executive Director.
As a shareholder, your views are important to us.
We would be grateful if you would complete an online survey to let us know what you think of this Annual Review.
You can nd the survey at www.
If you would like to know more about GSK, please contact us or go to the information sources listed on the back cover.
Sir Christopher Gent, Chairman, and JP Garnier, Chief Executive officer GlaxoSmithKline is addressing the key challenges that face both the pharmaceutical industry and society as a whole: Improving productivity in research and development Ensuring patients have access to medicines.
Our strategies to meet these challenges focus on several business drivers: Build the best product pipeline in the industry to the benefit of patients, consumers and society Continuously improve performance through commercial and operational excellence Improve access to medicines through a range of extensive programmes, both in the developed and the developing world Be the best place for the best people to do their best work.
GSK Annual Review 2005 29 Corporate Website brochure About us Meeting global challenges Our products Commitment to innovation Your health Access to medicines Responsibility Therapy areas In the community Our mission Research & Development A better future What would Investors Media centre you like to know Careers about GSK?
com Corporate Annual responsibility review report Access to medicines An interview with the Chairman and CEO Research and innovation Focus on the patient Ethical conduct The year of the vaccine Employees Annual Growing brands Human rights Powering performance report Environment Performance highlights Community investment Business operating review Summary remuneration report An interview with Corporate governance the Chairman and CEO Summary financial statements Financial summary Shareholder information Description of business Chairman and CEOs Corporate governance closing letter Remuneration report Operating and financial review and prospects Financial statements Notes to the financial statements Investor information Do more, feel better, live longer Head Ofce and Registered Ofce Produced by Corporate Communications, GSK.
GlaxoSmithKline plc 980 Great West Road Designed by CGI London.
Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS Printed in the UK by St. Ives Direct Edenbridge Ltd.
The paper United Kingdom used in the production of this document is made from pulps Tel: 44 0 20 8047 5000 harvested from sustainable forests, also using sawmill residues www.
