Financial summary Growth 2005 2004 m m CER% % Turnover 21,660 19,986 7 8 Operating profit 6,874 5,756 16 19 profit before taxation 6,732 5,779 13 16 profit after taxation for the year 4,816 4,022 17 20 profit attributable to minority interests 127 114 profit attributable to shareholders 4,689 3,908 Earnings per share 82.6p 68.1p 18 21 Diluted earnings per share 82.0p 68.0p Dividends per share 44p 42p Net cash inow from operating activities 5,958 4,944 Net assets 7,570 5,937 History and development of the company GlaxoSmithKline plc is a public limited company incorporated on 6th December 1999 under English law.
Its shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange.
On 27th December 2000 the company acquired Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc, both English public limited companies, by way of a scheme of arrangement for the merger of the two companies.
Both Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham were major global healthcare businesses.
GSK plc and its subsidiary and associated undertakings constitute a major global healthcare group engaged in the creation, discovery, development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical and consumer health-related products.
GSK has its corporate head ofce in London.
It also has operational headquarters in Philadelphia and Research Triangle Park, USA, and operations in some 119 countries, with products sold in over 130 countries.
The principal research and development R&D facilities are in the UK, the USA, Japan, Italy, Spain and Belgium.
Products are currently manufactured in some 37 countries.
The major markets for the Groups products are the USA, France, Japan, the UK, Italy, Germany and Spain.
Business segments GSK operates principally in two industry segments: Pharmaceuticals prescription pharmaceuticals and vaccines Consumer Healthcare over-the-counter medicines, oral care and nutritional healthcare.
The Group, as a multinational business, operates in many countries and earns revenues and incurs costs in many currencies.
The results of the Group, as reported in sterling, are therefore affected by movements in exchange rates between sterling and overseas currencies.
Average exchange rates prevailing during the period are used to translate the results and cash ows of overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings and joint ventures into sterling.
Period end rates are used to translate the net assets of those undertakings.
The currencies which most inuence these translations are the US dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is the Groups practice to discuss its results in terms of constant exchange rate CER growth.
This represents growth calculated as if the exchange rates used to determine the results of overseas companies in sterling had remained unchanged from those used in the previous year.
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates.
% represents growth at actual exchange rates.
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements The Group's reports led with or furnished to the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, including this document and written information released, or oral statements made, to the public in the future by or on behalf of the Group, may contain forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements give the Group's current expectations or forecasts of future events.
An investor can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
They use words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, intend, will, project, plan, believe and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance.
In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, and financial results.
The Group undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties.
The Group cautions investors that a number of important factors, including those in this document, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.
Such factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed under Risk factors on pages 71 to 74 of this Annual Report.
GSK Annual Report 2005 04 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
