Taxation information for shareholders Such a gift or other disposal is subject to both UK inheritance tax and Information for shareholders US estate or gift tax.
The Estate and Gift Tax Convention would A summary of the main tax consequences for holders of shares and generally provide for tax paid in the USA to be credited against tax ADRs who are citizens or residents of the UK or the USA is set out payable in the UK.
It is not a complete analysis of all the possible tax consequences of purchase or ownership of these securities.
It is intended only as a Stamp duty general guide.
Holders are advised to consult their advisers with UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax SDRT will, subject to certain respect to the tax consequences of the purchase and ownership of exemptions, be payable on the purchase of shares at a rate of 0.5% their shares or ADRs, and the consequences under state and local tax of the purchase price.
There is a minimum charge of 5 where a laws in the USA and the implications of the new UK US Income Tax stamp duty liability arises.
US shareholders This statement is based upon UK and US tax laws and practices at the The following is a summary of certain UK taxation and USA federal date of this report.
income tax considerations that may be relevant to a US holder of The new UK US Income Tax Convention came into force on 31st shares or ADRs.
This summary only applies to a shareholder that holds March 2003.
The provisions of the new treaty apply for UK tax shares or ADRs as capital assets, is a citizen or resident of the USA or purposes from 1st April 2003 UK Corporation Tax, 6th April 2003 a domestic corporation or that is otherwise subject to United States UK Income Tax and Capital Gains Tax and 1st May 2003 federal income taxation on a net income basis in respect of the shares Withholding Taxes.
For US tax purposes, the provisions of the new or ADRs, and is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes and does treaty apply from 1st May 2003 Withholding Taxes and 1st January not hold shares for the purposes of a trade, profession or vocation that 2004 all other US taxes.
However, holders of shares or ADRs have is carried on in the UK through a branch or agency.
the ability to elect to continue to use the provisions of the previous Taxation of dividends treaty for 12 months following the new treatys entry into force.
An The gross amount of dividends received without reduction for any UK election must be made in advance of the first event to which the new withholding tax is treated as foreign source dividend income for US treaty would apply.
It is not eligible for the dividend received deduction US holders of ADRs generally will be treated as the owners of the allowed to US corporations.
Dividends on ADRs are payable in US underlying shares for the purposes of the current USA UK double dollars: dividends on shares are payable in Sterling.
Dividends paid in taxation conventions relating to income and gains Income Tax pounds Sterling will be included in income in the US dollar amount Convention, estate and gift taxes Estate and Gift Tax Convention calculated by reference to the exchange rate on the day the dividends and for the purposes of the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as are received by the holder.
Subject to certain exceptions for shortamended the Code.
term or hedged positions, an individual eligible US holder will be subject to US taxation at a maximum rate of 15% in respect of The following analysis deals with dividends paid after 6th April 1999 qualied dividends received before 2009.
Shareholders are advised to when Advance Corporation Tax ACT was abolished.
consult their own Tax Advisers to confirm their eligibility.
UK shareholders Taxation of capital gains Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax, but Taxation of dividends will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale or other From 6th April 1999, the rate of tax credits was reduced to one ninth.
disposal of shares or ADRs.
As a result of compensating reductions in the rate of tax on dividend income, there is no increase in the tax borne by UK resident individual Estate and gift taxes shareholders.
Tax credits are, however, no longer repayable to Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is not shareholders with a tax liability of less than the associated tax credit.
generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
Taxation of capital gains Stamp duty UK shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the disposal of UK stamp duty or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions, be payable shares or ADRs.
They may also be entitled to indexation relief and on any issue or transfer of shares to the ADR custodian or depository taper relief on such sales.
Indexation relief is calculated on the market at a rate of 1.5% of their price if issued, the amount of any value of shares at 31st March 1982 and on the cost of any subsequent consideration provided if transferred on sale, or their value if purchases from the date of such purchase.
Indexation relief for transferred for no consideration.
individual shareholders ceased on 5th April 1998.
Taper relief is No SDRT would be payable on the transfer of an ADR.
No UK stamp available to individual shareholders who hold or are deemed to hold duty should be payable on the transfer of an ADR provided that the shares for at least three years before they are sold.
instrument of transfer is executed and remains at all times outside Inheritance tax the UK.
Any stamp duty on the transfer of an ADR would be payable Individual shareholders may be liable to inheritance tax on the transfer at a rate of 0.5% of the consideration for the transfer.
Any sale of the of shares or ADRs.
Tax may be charged on the amount by which the underlying shares would result in liability to UK stamp duty or, as the value of the shareholder's estate is reduced as a result of any transfer case may be, SDRT at a rate of 0.5%.
There is a minimum charge of by way of gift or other disposal at less than full market value.
5 where a stamp duty liability arises.
GSK Annual Report 2005 186 INVESTOR INFORMATION
