Directors statements of responsibility Directors statement of responsibility in relation to Internal control the consolidated financial statements The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the The Directors are responsible for: assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates in GlaxoSmithKline and has considered the effectiveness of the system ensuring the maintenance of proper accounting records, which of internal control in operation in the Group for the year covered by disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Group this report and up to the date of its approval by the Board of Directors.
at any time and from which financial statements can be prepared to comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS The Combined Code Regulation The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles of preparing financial statements for each financial period which give the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in Reporting Council, as described under Corporate governance on the European Union, of the state of affairs of the Group as at the pages 27 to 36, and has complied with its provisions except as end of the financial period and of the profit or loss for that period described on pages 35 and 36. ensuring the operation of systems of internal control and for taking As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and for auditors have considered the Directors statement of compliance in preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities.
relation to those points of the Combined Code which are specified The financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2005, for their review.
comprising principal statements and supporting notes, are set out in Financial statements on pages 84 to 164 of this report.
Annual Report The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been The Annual Report for the year ended 31st December 2005, consistently applied in the preparation of the financial statements, comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration Report, the supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates Financial statements and additional information for investors, has as necessary.
been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the financial statements are set out in the Independent Auditors report page 83 opposite.
The financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2005 are included in the Annual Report 2005, which is published in hard-copy printed form and made available on the website.
The Directors are Sir Christopher Gent responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report Chairman on the website in accordance with UK legislation governing the 1st March 2006 preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
Access to the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable legislation may be different.
Directors remuneration The Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 54 sets out the remuneration policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and disclosures on Directors remuneration and other disclosable information relating to Directors and officers and their interests.
It has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and complies with Section B of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Going concern basis After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
GSK Annual Report 2005 82 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
