ACCOUNTING POLICIES FOR THE FIFTY-TWO WEEKS ENDED 1 MAY 2005 Basis of accounting and consolidation Deferred taxation The accounts are prepared in accordance with the Companies Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that Act 1985 and applicable accounting and financial reporting have originated but not been reversed by the balance sheet date.
They are prepared under the historical cost convention modified by the revaluation of property.
The group Deferred tax is not recognised when an asset is sold if it is more accounts incorporate the accounts of the company and its likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over.
subsidiaries under the acquisition method.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are Turnover regarded as recoverable when it is more likely than not there will Turnover represents the value of goods and services supplied to be suitable taxable profits against which to recover carried third parties, predominantly in the UK, net of discounts, excise forward tax losses and from which the future reversal of duty and excluding value added tax.
underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Revaluation of properties Provisions for deferred tax are not discounted.
Fixed asset licensed properties are revalued at least every five years on an existing use basis and the surplus or deficit reflected Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated using the tax in the balance sheet.
Interim valuations are performed in the third rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the year, or sooner if there is evidence of a material change in value.
Valuations of other fixed asset properties were undertaken in 1999 and earlier years and in accordance with FRS 15 are Financial instruments retained but not updated.
Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate swaps are recognised as adjustments to the interest expense over the Surpluses and deficits are taken directly to the revaluation period of the swap contracts.
reserve, except to the extent that the valuation falls below both historic cost and supportable value in use, when they are taken Pensions to the profit and loss account, and on realisation are transferred The cost of providing defined benefit pensions is charged to the profit and loss account reserve.
against profits on a systematic basis taking account of actuarial surpluses and deficits arising which are allocated over the Depreciation remaining average service life of current qualifying employees.
Freehold land is not depreciated, freehold buildings are The cost of providing defined contribution pensions amounts to depreciated to their estimated residual values over periods up to the value of contributions made.
fifty years, long leasehold properties are depreciated to their estimated residual values over periods up to fifty years, short Goodwill leasehold properties are depreciated to their estimated residual Goodwill arising from the premium paid on businesses acquired values over the remaining term of the lease and furniture, fixtures after 3 May 1998 is amortised over its estimated useful life of 20 and equipment assets are depreciated over their estimated lives years.
which range from three to twenty years.
Previously goodwill was written off to reserves and has not been Where the carrying value of assets may not be recoverable an re-instated.
The carrying values are reviewed for impairment if impairment in the value of fixed assets is charged to the profit events or changes in circumstances indicate that they may not and loss account.
Stocks Operating leases Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value Rental payments in respect of operating leases are charged and, where applicable, include an element of production against trading profit on a straight line basis over the period of overheads.
Loan capital Own shares Loan capital and equivalent financial instruments include the Investments held in own shares are held at cost and shown as a premium realised on issue, or recognised on acquisition, which deduction from shareholders' funds.
is amortised over the term of the loan to keep the effective interest rate constant.
