Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records and the group and parent company accounts, in accordance with that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial applicable law and regulation.
position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open company accounts for each financial year.
Under that law the to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and directors are required to prepare the group accounts in accordance detect fraud and other irregularities.
with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and have elected also to prepare the parent company accounts in accordance with IFRSs.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors The group and parent company accounts are required by law and Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that by IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position comply with that law and those regulations.
and performance of the group and parent company.
Provision has been made within the Companies Act 1985 such that references The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of to a true and fair view are deemed to have the same meaning as the corporate and financial information included on the Companys present fairly in order that the accounts are in compliance with website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and all relevant legislation.
dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
In preparing the group and parent company accounts, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company will continue in business.
