Notes to the Consolidated Accounts Significant accounting policies Greggs plc the Company is a company incorporated in the UK.
The Group accounts consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The parent company accounts present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The accounts were authorised for issue by the directors on 10 March 2006. a Statement of compliance Both the parent company accounts and the Group accounts have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs.
On publishing the parent company accounts here together with the Group accounts, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in s230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these approved accounts.
b Basis of preparation The accounts are presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand, and are prepared on the historical cost basis.
Both the Group and the Company are preparing their accounts in accordance with adopted IFRSs for the first time and consequently both have applied IFRS 1.
An explanation of how the transition to adopted IFRSs has affected the previously reported financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Group and parent company is provided in note 26.
IFRS 1 grants certain exemptions from the full reporting requirements of IFRSs in the transition year.
The following exemptions have been taken in these accounts: i Employee benefits: All cumulative actuarial gains and losses have been recognised in equity at the transition date.
This is to maintain consistency with Group policy, whereby all actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly via the statement of recognised income and expense.
ii Share based payments: The Group has elected to apply IFRS 2 Share based payments only to relevant share based payment transactions granted after 7 November 2002 as permitted under IFRS 1. iii Business combinations: The Group has chosen not to restate business combinations prior to the transition date on an IFRS basis, as no significant acquisitions have taken place for the past 10 years.
The Groups policy up to and including 1997 was to eliminate goodwill arising upon acquisitions against reserves.
Under IFRS 1 and IFRS 3, such goodwill will remain eliminated against reserves.
iv Fair value as deemed cost: The Group has adopted the exemption which allows the restatement of certain items of property, plant and equipment to fair value at the transition date.
The amendment to IAS 19 has been adopted early in these accounts.
The preparation of financial information in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that effect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the year in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that year, or in the year of revision and future years if the revision affects both current and future years.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all years presented in these consolidated accounts and in preparing the opening IFRS balance sheet at 28 December 2003 for the purpose of the transition to IFRSs.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the Group.
c Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts include the results of Greggs plc and its subsidiary undertakings for the 52 weeks ended 31 December 2005.
The comparative period is the 53 weeks ended 1 January 2005. i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists where the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The accounts of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated accounts from the date control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated accounts.
d Foreign currency Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
e Classification of financial instruments issued by the Group Financial instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity i. e. forming part of shareholders funds only to the extent that they meet the following conditions: i they include no contractual obligations upon the Company or Group to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Company: ii where the instrument will or may be settled in the Companys own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of the Companys own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Companys exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability.
Where the instrument so classified takes the legal form of the Companys own shares, the amounts presented in these accounts for called up share capital and share premium exclude amounts in relation to these shares.
Where a financial instrument that contains both equity and financial liability components exists these components are separated and accounted for individually under the above policy.
The finance cost on the financial liability component is correspondingly higher over the life of the instrument.
Finance payments that are associated with financial instruments that are classified as equity are dividends and are recorded directly in equity.
f Property, plant and equipment i Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses see accounting policy j.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
Certain items of property, plant and equipment that have been revalued to fair value on or prior to 28 December 2003, the date of transition to IFRSs, are measured on the basis of deemed cost, being the revalued amount at the date of that revaluation.
ii Subsequent costs The Group recognises in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment the cost of replacing part of such an item when the cost is incurred if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the item can be measured reliably.
All other costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
iii Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
Freehold and long leasehold properties are depreciated by equal instalments over a period of 40 years.
The depreciation rates are as follows: Short leasehold properties 10% Plant: General 10% 1 Computers 20% - 33 3% Motor vehicles 20% - 25% 1 Delivery trays 33 3% Shop fixtures and fittings: General 10% Electronic equipment 20% The residual value, if not insignificant, is reassessed annually.
iv Assets in the course of construction Depreciation on these assets commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 32 33 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Significant accounting policies continued g Investments Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less impairment.
h Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
The cost of inventories is based on the weighted average cost formula.
i Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
j Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets value is estimated.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
k Share capital i Repurchase of share capital When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a change in equity.
Repurchased shares that are held in the Employee Share Ownership Plan are classified as treasury shares and are presented as a deduction from total equity.
ii Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the year in which they are approved by the shareholders.
l Employee share ownership plan The Group accounts include the assets and related liabilities of the Greggs Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
In both the Group and parent company accounts the shares held by the EBT are stated at cost and deducted from shareholders funds.
m Segment reporting The consolidated entity operates in one business segment being that of retailing of sandwiches, savouries and other bakery-related products primary segment.
As a result no additional business segment information is required to be provided.
The consolidated entity operates principally in one geographic segment secondary segment, the United Kingdom.
n Employee benefits i Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
ii Defined benefit plans The Groups obligation in respect of defined benefit post-employment plans, including pension plans, is calculated by estimating the amount of the future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior years.
That benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses in full in the year in which they occur in the statement of recognised income and expense.
iii Share-based payment transactions The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company.
The fair value of share options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date, using an appropriate model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the share options were granted, and is spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
For options granted before 7 November 2002 the recognition and measurement principles of IFRS 2 have not been applied in accordance with the transitional provisions in IFRS 1. o Revenue i Goods sold Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised as income on receipt of cash.
ii Government grants Government grants are recognised in the balance sheet initially as deferred income when there is a reasonable assurance that they will be received and that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to them.
Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred are recognised as revenue in the income statement on a systematic basis in the same periods in which the expenses are incurred.
Grants that compensate the Group for the cost of an asset are recognised in the income statement over the useful life of the asset.
p Expenses i Operating lease payments Payments under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
q Finance income and expense i Finance income Finance income comprises interest receivable on funds invested and foreign exchange gains relating to those funds.
Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues using the effective interest method.
ii Finance expenses Finance expenses comprise interest payable on borrowings and related foreign exchange losses.
GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 34 35 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Significant accounting policies continued r Income tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is probable that the related deferred tax benefit will be realised.
s IFRSs available for early adoption not yet applied The following IFRSs, which will have an impact for the Group, were available for early adoption but have not been applied in these accounts: Amendment to IAS 1: Presentation of Financial Statements applicable for years commencing on or after 1 January 2007: and IFRS 7: Financial instruments: Disclosure applicable for years commencing on or after 1 January 2007.
The application of Amendment to IAS 1 and IFRS 7 in the current year would not have affected the balance sheets or income statement as the standards are concerned only with disclosure.
The Group plans to apply these IFRSs in 2007.
All other standards that are available for early adoption currently have no impact for the Group.
