Explanation of transition to IFRS As stated in the accounting policies a Statement of compliance, these are the Groups first annual financial statements prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS.
The accounting policies disclosed have been applied in preparing the consolidated financial information for the year ended 31 December 2005, the comparative information for the year ended 31 December 2004 and the preparation of an opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2004 the Groups date of transition.
In preparing its opening IFRS balance sheet and comparative information for the year ended 31 December 2004, the Group has adjusted amounts reported previously in financial statements prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
An explanation of how the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS has affected the Groups financial position and financial performance is set out in the following tables and the notes that accompany the tables.
The cost of the option is based on the fair value of the option at the date of grant and is charged to the income statement over the vesting period.
A charge has been recognised for all awards granted since 7 November 2002 and not vested by 31 December 2005.
It is charged to the same income statement expense category as the costs of the employee to whom the share award has been made.
An equivalent amount is credited to the profit and loss reserve in the balance sheet.
Under FRS 20 Share based payments a charge must also be recognised for any share based payments.
FRS 20 was effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
As a result the UK GAAP comparatives for the year ended 31 December 2005 include a charge for share based payments and in accordance with FRS 20, prior year comparatives have been restated.
2 Goodwill The Groups policy under UK GAAP regarding the amortisation of goodwill was to amortise the goodwill over 20 years.
Under IFRS 3, there is no amortisation of goodwill so this adjustment removes the goodwill amortisation charged under UK GAAP.
An annual impairment review is performed under IFRS and any reduction in the carrying value is to be written down through the income statement.
The impairment review at 31 December 2005 confirmed that there had been no impairment of goodwill.
3 Capitalised development expenditure Under UK GAAP all research and development expenditure was charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Under IAS 38 development expenditure which meets certain specified criteria is required to be capitalised and amortised over its useful life.
For the period to 31 December 2005 capitalised development expenditure amounted to 253,000 2004: 141,000.
Development expenditure capitalised since 1 January 2004 has been amortised over a period of five years.
This policy has not been applied retrospectively.
4 Recognition of deferred tax liability where goodwill amortisation is eligible for a tax deduction A deferred tax liability is recognised on goodwill which is eligible for a tax deduction in the US but for which, under IFRS, there is no amortisation charge in the income statement.
5 Deferred consideration An adjustment for interest on deferred consideration required under IFRS 3.
6 Reclassification of deferred tax asset as a non-current asset Deferred tax is shown in the balance sheet as a non-current asset or liability under IFRS, rather than as a current asset or liability under UK GAAP.
7 Treatment of exceptional items The audited profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December 2004 includes an exceptional item of 27,000.
Under IFRS, there is no concept of exceptional items.
Material non-recurring items, for example, those of a type that under UK GAAP would be exceptional items, may not be aggregated but may be disclosed separately on the face of the income statement.
The net exceptional item of 27,000 has been included within the General and Administration heading of the income statement under IFRS.
The IFRS adjustment of 4,686,000 represents the write down of the IFRS 3 derived uplift in acquired inventory as a result of the American Cystoscope Makers Inc acquisition.
8 Tax effect Many of the above adjustments require an adjustment to the tax charge.
The aggregate adjustment represents a net additional non-cash deferred tax provision.
9 Reserve movements As a result of the adoption of IFRS, a hedging reserve and a translation reserve have been created.
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations.
These reserves are shown as Other reserves for the purposes of the transition balance sheets.
10 Gain loss on foreign exchange Gains and losses arising on foreign exchange through the profit and loss account were reported within General and Administration expenses under UK GAAP.
Under IFRS, gains and losses have been reclassified to financial income and financial expenses within the income statement.
Gyrus Group PLC has taken advantage of the following exemptions: 1.
Under IFRS 3, Business Combinations, no restatement of business combinations prior to adopting IFRS.
Under IAS 21, The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, no prior adjustment for cumulative translation differences that existed at the date of transition to IFRS.
Under IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, and IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, no restatement of comparatives for 2004 so such information is disclosed in line with UK GAAP.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 79
