Gyruss approach to ACHIEVING achieving operational excellence is built on: OPERATIONAL Implementation of Lean EXCELLENCE Manufacturing Across the Group Achieving Operational Excellence Training and Leveraging Best Developing Practice Global our Greatest Networks for Asset our Key Functional Employees Areas Gyrus is committed to achieving excellence in all aspects of its operations and pre-acquisition was mid-way through a three-year programme to improve profit margins and create a sustainable continuous improvement culture.
Following the acquisition of ACMI we have extended these initiatives across the combined organisation.
The Lean Initiative Lean Manufacturing continues to be rolled out across the Group and is delivering positive results with legacy Gyrus gross margin up to 61.8% from 59.1% in 2004.
Our lead plant in Minneapolis has seen a 75% increase Roy Davis in productivity since commencing the programme and Chief Operating Officer a 3.6% increase in gross margin in 2005.
Our Norwalk facility saw a 61% reduction in scrap and a 14% increase in labour productivity during the period.
All our other major plants Cardiff, Memphis and Stamford are on plan with their implementation of Lean.
Integration of Gyrus and ACMI The acquisition of ACMI presents challenges and 2005 PERFORMANCE opportunities from an operational integration perspective.
Due diligence identified $22 million of cost savings over $22 million integration cost saving a three-year period post-acquisition at a cost of circa potential validated $33 million to achieve them.
Post acquisition our Gyrus organic gross margin 100-day plan confirmed these estimates and we are on track to achieve these targets.
A cross-functional improvement to 61.8% 2004: 59.1% cross-company team is responsible for the planning and implementation of key integration initiatives including: Completion and extension of ACMIs existing B3 operational improvement initiatives Plant rationalisation, specifically the closure of the plant in Racine, Wisconsin Leveraging group sourcing power Overhead cost reduction Extension of Lean Manufacturing initiatives across the Group Global ERP system implementation All of these initiatives are now under way and we are confident in our ability to integrate the two companies successfully and deliver the savings potential.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 18
