NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Significant accounting policies Gyrus Group PLC is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2005 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The comparative figures for the financial year ended 31 December 2004 are not the Groups audited statutory accounts for that financial year.
Those accounts, which were prepared under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practices, have been reported on by the Groups auditor and delivered to the registrar of companies.
The report of the auditors was unqualified and did not contain statements under section 237 2 or 3 of the Companies Act 1985. a Statement of compliance The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRS.
The Group is preparing its financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the EU for the first time and consequently has applied certain transitional provisions of IFRS 1.
An explanation of how the transition to adopted IFRS has affected the financial position and financial performance of the Group is provided in note 25. b Basis of preparation The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except for derivative financial instruments that are stated at their fair value.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently in all periods in these consolidated financial statements and in preparing an opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2004 for the purposes of the transition to adopted IFRS.
c Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are presently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
On acquisition, the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
ii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
d Foreign currency i Foreign currency transactions Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rate ruling on the date of the transaction.
Foreign currencies received are translated at the exchange rate ruling on the date of conversion.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, are translated into sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The resulting exchange differences are charged to the income statement for the year.
ii Foreign statements of foreign operations On consolidation, the results of overseas operations are translated at the average rates of exchange during the period and their balance sheets at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on translation of the opening net assets and on the difference between the results of overseas operations translated at average monthly exchange rates and year-end rates are dealt with through the Groups translation reserve.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 48 e Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange risks and interest rate risks arising from operational and financing activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivatives are recorded at fair value and any gains or losses on remeasurement of fair values are taken to the income statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resulting gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current credit worthiness of the swap counterparties.
f Cash flow hedging When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability or highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instruments is recognised directly in the hedging reserve.
If a hedge of a forecasted transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, then the associated gains or losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassified into the income statement in the same period or periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects the income statement i. e. when interest income or expense is recognised.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the Group revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, then the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Comparative information for derivative financial instruments and hedging The Group has taken advantage of the transitional arrangements of IFRS 1 not to restate corresponding amounts in accordance with the above policies.
Instead the following policies were applied: In the comparative period, all financial assets and liabilities were carried at cost.
Gains and losses on forward exchange contracts treated as hedging instruments were not recognised in the income statement.
On recognition of the hedged transaction the unrecognised gains and losses arising on the instrument were recognised, either in the income statement or in the carrying value of the associated asset or liability.
The following adjustments necessary to implement the revised policy have been made at 1 January 2005 with the net adjustment, to net assets, taken through the 2005 statement of recognised income and expense.
Corresponding amounts for 2004 are presented and disclosed in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 and FRS 4 in 2004.
The main differences between the 2004 and 2005 bases of accounting are shown and described below.
Effect on the balance sheet at 1 January 2005 000 Other financial assets Cash flow hedges 115 Hedging reserve Cash flow hedges 115 Effect on the income statement of the new policies Recognition in the income statement of a net gain of 1,980,000 as a material non-recurring item in relation to what is recognised under IAS 39 as an ineffective hedge in respect of the sterling denominated equity portion of the consideration paid for ACMI.
Effect on the current year statement of recognised income and expense of the new policies Gains and losses arising on cash flow hedges to the extent effective, net of amounts recycled to the income statement for the period in respect of hedged transactions, resulted in a net gain of 579,000 being taken directly to the hedging reserve.
The effect of implementing the new policies on 1 January 2005 has resulted in a net credit taken directly to equity of 115,000.
The cash flow statement is unaffected by the change in accounting policy.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 49 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED g Property, plant and equipment i Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
ii Leased assets Where the Group enters into a lease which entails taking substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset, the lease is treated as a finance lease.
The lease is recorded in the balance sheet as a tangible fixed asset and is depreciated over its estimated useful life or the term of the lease, whichever is the shorter.
Future instalments under such leases, net of finance charges, are included in creditors.
iii Depreciation Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of tangible fixed assets by equal instalments over their estimated useful economic lives.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Fixtures, fittings and office equipment 3-10 years Buildings 20 years Leasehold improvements term of lease Plant and machinery 3-10 years Placed equipment 3 years Placed equipment relates to equipment placed in clinical settings to generate a stream of disposables revenue.
Utilisation of such equipment is measured and provision made where appropriate for impairment.
h Intangible assets i Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and is tested for impairment annually, or on such other occasions that events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under UK GAAP.
The classification and accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred prior to 2004 has not been reconsidered in preparing the Groups opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2004 see note 11.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of unamortised goodwill which has not been subject to impairment is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
ii Research and development Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure arising from the Groups development activities is capitalised and amortised over the life of the product only if the Group can demonstrate the following: the technical feasibility of completing the asset so it will be available for use or sale: the intention to complete the intangible asset and use or sell it: the ability to use or sell the intangible asset: that it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: there is the availability of adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the intangible asset: and the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Where no intangible asset is recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Capitalised development costs are amortised over the life of the product, which is usually no more than 10 years.
iii Licensing agreements Licensing agreements are included at cost and depreciated over their useful economic life.
Provision is made for any impairment.
iv Intellectual property rights Patents and trademarks are measured initially at purchase cost and amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 50 v Subsequent expenditure and amortisation Subsequent expenditure on a capitalised intangible asset is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
On acquisition, intangible assets are identified and valued in accordance with IFRS 3.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the relevant intangible assets unless such life is indefinite.
Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are systematically tested for impairment at each balance sheet date.
Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Capitalised development costs 5-10 years Acquired research and development As identified at acquisition date Licensing agreements Life of the agreement or underlying patent Intellectual property rights Life of the underlying right e. g. patent Customer relationships As identified at acquisition date Trademarks As identified at acquisition date i Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are stated at their fair value less impairment losses.
j Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on a first in first out basis and includes transport and handling costs.
In the case of manufactured products, cost includes all direct expenditure and production overheads based on the normal level of activity.
Net realisable value is the price at which the inventory can be sold in the normal course of business after allowing for the costs of realisation and, where appropriate, the cost of conversion from their existing state to a finished condition.
Provision is made where necessary for obsolete, slow-moving and defective inventory in determining net realisable value.
Finished goods acquired as a result of business combinations are valued at the selling price less the costs of disposal and a reasonable profit allowance for the selling effort.
Work in progress acquired as a result of business combinations is valued at the selling price of finished goods less costs to complete, costs of disposal and a reasonable profit allowance for completing and selling the goods.
Raw materials acquired as a result of business combinations are valued at current replacement cost.
The fair value adjustment arising as a result of the valuation exercise is reduced over the period of the inventory turn of the acquired company.
The resulting charge is taken to the income statement.
k Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purposes only of the statement of cash flows.
l Impairment At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible, intangible assets and financial assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is allocated to cash-generating units.
The recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually, or on such other occasions that events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is land or buildings at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but such that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
However, impairment losses relating to goodwill may not be reversed.
m Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recognised initially at fair value less attributable costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interestbearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 51 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED n Employee Benefits i Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
ii Defined benefit plans The Group has obligations to two defined benefit plans which were assumed on 21 July 2005 as part of the acquisition of American Cystoscope Makers Inc.
The details of these plans are disclosed in note 19 to the accounts.
The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pensions plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their services in current and prior periods: that benefit is discounted to determine the present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
The discount rate is an actuarially defined rate, based upon long term interest rates, used to determine the present value of gross future obligations of the scheme.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Where the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the present value of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Actuarial gains and losses arising subsequent to the acquisition of American Cystoscope Makers Inc are recognised directly in equity in the period that they occur through the statement of recognised income and expense.
iii Share based payment transactions In accordance with the transition provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of shares or share options made after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
The Group issues equity settled share based payments to certain employees.
Equity settled share based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity settled share based payments is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted to employees is measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted.
The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on a stochastic option pricing model.
This model takes into account the following variables: exercise price, share price at grant, expected term, expected volatility of share price, risk-free interest rate and expected dividend yield.
The Group also gives employees the opportunity to purchase shares in the Company by participating in a share purchase plan.
The option price for the UK Save As You Earn Scheme is the market price on the day preceding the invitation date discounted by a maximum of 80%.
The share options under this plan are also treated as equity settled share based payments and the fair value calculated using a stochastic model.
In May 2005, the Group issued the first grant under the Gyrus 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan.
This is a discretionary plan which provides for the grant of conditional awards or nil cost options over 1p ordinary shares in the Company.
Awards normally vest following the third anniversary of grant once certain performance conditions have been satisfied and provided that the participant remains employed by the Group.
The performance conditions are based on earnings per share growth.
The fair value of grants under this scheme are determined as being the mid market quote on the day preceding grant which is charged to the income statement evenly over the three-year vesting period based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
o Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to meet that obligation.
i Restructuring Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and it has been notified to affected parties by the balance sheet date.
Future operating costs are not provided for.
p Trade and other payables Trade payables are stated at their fair value.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 52 q Revenue Product sales are recognised upon shipment of product.
Royalty revenue relating to licensed technology is recognised upon shipment of product or when advised by the other party to the royalty contract that the royalty is earned.
Revenue excludes VAT and similar taxes.
r Other income Other income represents revenues derived from collaborative development agreements and is recognised in accordance with the applicable contract terms.
s Cost of Sales Cost of sales represents the material, labour and production overheads incurred in manufacturing the products sold or the purchase cost and directly attributable handling costs of products bought for re-sale.
t Expenses i Operating lease payments Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
ii Finance lease payments Minimum lease payments are apportioned on an effective interest basis, between the finance element, which is charged to the income statement and the capital element, which reduces the outstanding obligations for future instalments.
iii Financial expenses Financial expenses comprise interest payable on borrowings, foreign exchange losses and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
iv Financial income Financial income comprises interest income recognised in the income statement as it accrues, interest receivable on funds invested and gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
u Income Tax The charge for current tax is based on the taxable income for the period as adjusted for items which are non-assessable or disallowed.
It is calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax basis used in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or negative goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction which affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Where the Group is able to control the distribution of reserves from subsidiaries, and there is no intention to distribute the reserves, deferred tax is not recognised for these temporary differences.
Deferred tax is calculated at the rates that are expected to apply when the asset or liability is settled.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority, and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Information as to the calculation of the income tax expense is included in note 9.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 53
