NOTES TO THE COMPANY ONLY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER Accounting conventions The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
Basis of preparation The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the financial statements, except as noted below.
FRS 20 Share based payments FRS 21 Events after the balance sheet date FRS 25 Financial instruments: presentation and disclosure FRS 26 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement FRS 28 Corresponding amounts The accounting policies under these new standards are set out below together with an indication of their impact on adoption.
FRS 28 Corresponding amounts has had no material effect as it imposes the same requirements as the Companies Act 1985.
The corresponding amounts in these financial statements are, other than those covered by the exemptions permitted by FRS 25, restated in accordance with the new policies.
FRS 25 permits the corresponding amounts not to be restated and the Company has adopted this approach.
The cash flow hedging policy set out below provides further details of the bases of accounting for cash flow hedges for the year ended 31 December 2005 and 31 December 2004 and of the change booked on 1 January 2005.
Under Financial Reporting Standard 1, the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that the Parent undertaking includes the Company in its own published consolidated financial statements which can be found on pages 44 to 79 of this annual report and accounts.
Intangible assets licensing agreements Licensing agreements are included at cost and depreciated over their useful economic life.
Provision is made for any impairment.
Research and development Expenditure on research and development, including that from which development fees are derived, is written off to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Intellectual property rights Patent disputes are common in the medical devices sector, particularly in the US.
Litigation is frequently used to assess the relative merits of such disputes prior to settlement through commercial agreement.
All expenditure on intellectual property rights, including the costs of patents and trademarks and the defence of the Groups intellectual property rights, is written off to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Foreign currencies Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rate ruling on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities expressed in foreign currencies, are translated into sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet rate.
The resulting exchange differences are charged to the profit and loss account for the year.
Derivative financial instruments The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange risks and interest rate risks arising from operational and financing activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivatives are recorded at fair value and any gains or losses on remeasurement of fair values is taken to the profit and loss account.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resulting gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Company would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current credit worthiness of the swap counter parties.
Cash flow hedging When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability or highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instruments is recognised directly in the hedging reserve.
If a hedge of a forecasted transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, then the associated gains or losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassified into the income statement in the same period or periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects the income statement i. e. when interest income or expense is recognised.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 81 NOTES TO THE COMPANY ONLY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the Company revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the stated policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, then the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
In the comparative period all financial assets and liabilities were carried at cost.
Gains and losses on forward exchange contracts treated as hedging instruments were not recognised in the profit and loss account.
On recognition of the hedged transaction the unrecognised gains and losses arising on the instrument were recognised, either in the profit and loss account or in the carrying value of the associated asset or liability.
No adjustment was necessary as of 1 January 2005 as the Company had no cash flow hedges in place.
During the year the effect on implementing the new policy was as follows: A net gain on an ineffective hedge of 1,980,000 was taken into the profit and loss account.
A fair value adjustment on interest rate swap contracts held at 31 December 2005 of 864,000 was taken to the hedging reserve.
Taxation Corporation taxes are recorded on taxable profits at the current rate.
Deferred tax is recognised without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19: Deferred Tax.
In accordance with FRS 19: Deferred Tax, deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Investment in subsidiary undertakings The Companys investment in subsidiary undertakings is stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
Fixed assets and depreciation Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost net of depreciation.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of tangible fixed assets by equal instalments over their estimated useful economic lives as follows: Fixtures and fittings 3-10 years Leasehold improvements term of lease Plant and machinery 3-10 years Pension scheme arrangements The Company operates a defined contribution scheme.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Company in an independently administered fund.
The pension charge represents contributions payable by the Company to the fund.
Share based payment transactions In accordance with the transition provisions, FRS 20 has been applied to all grants of shares or share options made after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
The Company issues equity settled share based payments to certain employees.
Equity settled share based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity settled share based payments is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted to employees is measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted.
The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on a stochastic option pricing model.
This model takes into account the following variables: exercise price, share price at grant, expected term, expected volatility of share price, risk-free interest rate and expected dividend yield.
The Company also gives employees the opportunity to purchase shares in the Company by participating in a share purchase plan.
The option price for the UK Save As You Earn Scheme is the market price on the day preceding the invitation date discounted by a maximum of 80%.
The share options under this plan are also treated as equity settled share based payments and the fair value calculated using a stochastic model.
In May 2005, the Company issued the first grant under the Gyrus 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan.
This is a discretionary plan which provides for the grant of conditional awards or nil cost options over 1p Ordinary Shares in the Company.
Awards normally vest following the third anniversary of grant once certain performance conditions have been satisfied and provided that the participant remains employed by the Company.
The performance conditions are based on earnings per share growth.
The fair value of grants under this scheme are determined as being the mid market quote on the day preceding grant which is charged to the profit and loss account evenly over the three-year vesting period based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The impact on the restatement of the prior year comparatives is shown in note 9 to these Company only financial statements.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 82
