Accounting Policies Basis of preparation The consolidated accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries are prepared for the period up to the Friday closest to 31 March each year.
Consequently, the financial statements for the current period cover the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2005, whilst the comparative period covered the 53 weeks ended 2 April 2004.
The consolidated accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention, in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, applicable accounting standards and specifically in accordance with the Accounting Policies set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
The acquisition method of accounting has been adopted.
Under this method the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired in the period are included in the consolidated profit and loss account from the date of acquisition.
The assets and liabilities of subsidiary undertakings are incorporated at their fair value at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and amortised over its useful economic life, up to a maximum of 20 years.
Change of Accounting Policies The Accounting Policies set out below are consistent with the previous year, except for the adoption of UITF 17 revised 2003 Employee share schemes.
The impact on the results arising from this adoption are shown in note 3.
In addition, UITF 38 Accounting for ESOPTrusts has also been adopted during the period with no material impact on the results of the Group.
Turnover Turnover is stated as amounts receivable for goods and services supplied to customers net of VAT, and discounts and promotions.
In accordance with FRS 5 Application Note G: Revenue Recognition, turnover is stated net of a provision for the estimated level of returns.
Intangible assets The cost of intangible assets acquired, which are capitalised only if separately identifiable, is amortised over estimated useful lives up to a maximum of 20 years.
Similar assets created within the business are not capitalised and expenditure is charged against profits in the year in which it is incurred.
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed on a regular basis.
Any impairment in value is charged to the profit and loss account as it arises.
Depreciation Tangible fixed assets are written off in equal instalments over their expected useful lives.
This policy is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that the estimated useful economic lives are appropriate.
The periods over which the assets are being depreciated are as follows: Short leasehold land and buildings over the period of the lease Motor vehicles 33% per annum Store fixtures over the period of the lease to a maximum of 25 years Fixtures, fittings and equipment 10 to 25% per annum Computer equipment 33% per annum Any impairment in the value of such fixed assets is charged to the profit and loss account as it arises.
Stocks Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises the purchase cost of goods and cost related to distribution.
Pensions Employees are offered membership of Halfords Pension Plan, a defined contribution pension arrangement.
The costs of contributions to the scheme are charged to the profit and loss account in the period that they arise.
Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2005 43 Accounting Policies Options The Group takes advantage of the dispensation in UITF 17 revised 2003 Employee Share Schemes so not to apply that abstract to the Groups Inland Revenue approved Save-As-You-Earn Scheme.
Leases The rentals payable under operating leases are charged directly to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Benefits received as an incentive to sign a lease, whatever form they may take, are credited to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the shorter of the period of the lease or the period until rentals are expected to be revised to prevailing market rates.
Any premiums received in respect of an exit from a property are credited to the profit and loss account at the date of surrender of the lease.
The costs of assets held under finance leases are included under tangible fixed assets and depreciation is provided in accordance with the policy for the class of asset concerned.
The corresponding obligations under these leases are shown as creditors.
The finance charge element of rentals is charged to the profit and loss account to produce, or approximate to, a constant periodic rate of charge on the remaining balance of the outstanding obligations.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is provided in respect of timing differences that have originated, but not reversed, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Financial Instruments Debt is recognised in the balance sheet as the cash proceeds received less costs incurred directly in connection with the issue of the instrument.
Finance costs in respect of the instruments, including discounts on issue, are charged to the profit and loss account over the term of the instrument.
The principal derivative instruments used by the Group are interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements.
These instruments are used for hedging purposes in line with the Group risk management policy and no trading of instruments is undertaken.
Interest differentials are taken to the net interest payable in the profit and loss account, and premiums and fees are amortised at a contract rate over the life of the underlying instruments.
Foreign Currencies Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate prevailing at the time of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies held at the year-end are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Where covered by forward exchange contracts liabilities are translated at the future contract rates.
Any exchange gain or loss is dealt with in the profit and loss account.
44 Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2005
