HALMA Accounting Policies Basis of accounting The accounts set out on pages 48 to 73 are prepared under the historical cost convention and comply with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards.
The principal Group accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the current and preceding year and are described below.
The accounts also reflect the transitional requirements of FRS 17 Retirement Benefits.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts include the accounts of Halma p. l. c. and its subsidiary companies made up to 2 April 2005.
The results of subsidiary companies acquired are included from the month of acquisition.
Acquisitions Fair values are ascribed to tangible assets and liabilities of subsidiary companies and businesses at the dates of acquisition and the resultant goodwill is capitalised as an intangible asset.
Prior to 28 March 1998 any goodwill surplus or deficiency was taken to reserves as a matter of accounting policy.
Intangible assets Goodwill arising on acquisitions after 28 March 1998 is capitalised and is classified as an intangible asset in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to that date was written off to reserves, and would be included in the determination of profit or loss arising from the sale or closure of the business to which it relates.
Capitalised goodwill is amortised through the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account on a straight line basis over its estimated economic life of 20 years.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currency are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction unless matched by a forward currency contract.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates prevailing at that date, or, where appropriate, at the forward currency contract rate.
Any gain or loss arising from subsequent exchange rate movements is included as an exchange gain or loss in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account.
Net assets of overseas subsidiary companies are expressed in Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the end of the financial year, and trading results and cash flows at the average rates of exchange for the financial year.
Exchange gains or losses arising on these translations, together with those on foreign currency borrowings which are taken out to hedge the Groups overseas investments, are taken to the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses.
Turnover Turnover represents sales, less returns, by subsidiary companies to external customers excluding value added tax.
Transactions are recorded as sales when the delivery of products or performance of services takes place in accordance with the contracted terms of sale.
Investments Investments are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
Halma p. l. c. 2005 53 HALMA Accounting Policies continued Tangible fixed assets and depreciation Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less provisions for impairment and depreciation which, with the exception of freehold land which is not depreciated, is provided on all tangible fixed assets on the straight line method, each item being written off over its estimated life.
The principal annual rates used for this purpose are: Freehold buildings 2% Leasehold properties more than 50 years unexpired 2% less than 50 years unexpired Period of lease Plant, machinery and equipment 8% to 20% Motor vehicles 20% 1 Short-life tooling 33 3% Leases The costs of operating leases of property and other assets are charged as incurred.
Pensions The Group makes contributions to various pension schemes, covering the majority of its employees, which are charged against profits on a systematic and rational basis over the period during which benefit is derived from the service.
Any differences between this charge and amounts payable to the schemes are recorded as provisions or prepayments as appropriate.
Actuarial valuations of defined benefit schemes are performed at least triennially.
Research and development Expenditure on research and development is written off in the financial year in which it is incurred.
Stocks Stocks and work in progress of subsidiary companies are included at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes the appropriate proportion of production and other overheads considered by the Directors to be attributable to bringing the stock to its location and condition at the year end.
Deferred taxation The Group provides for taxation deferred because of timing differences between profits as computed for taxation purposes and profits as stated in the accounts, on an undiscounted basis.
Deferred taxation is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised if recovery is reasonably certain.
The principal timing differences in the Group accounts arise on the excess of tax allowances on tangible fixed assets over the corresponding depreciation charged in the accounts: and on goodwill arising in jurisdictions where it is eligible for deduction against tax, where it has been charged against reserves in the Group accounts but would be accounted for through the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account on a sale or closure of the business to which it relates.
