73 Alliance UniChem Plc 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment are classified as finance leases where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and the finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are classified as borrowings within financial liabilities.
Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Employee benefits a Pension obligations Defined benefit plans: A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors, such as age, years of service and compensation.
For defined benefit retirement schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations obtained at least triennially and updated on the balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the year in which they occur and are recognised outside the income statement in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, otherwise it is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Defined contribution plans: The cost represents the Groups contributions to the plans that are charged to the income statement in the period in which they fall due.
b Share-based compensation Share options granted before 7 November 2002 and vested before 1 January 2005: No expense is recognised in respect of the options granted under the savings related and discretionary share option schemes.
In respect of the long-term incentive plan, the fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant is recognised as an expense.
Share options granted after 7 November 2002 and vested after 1 January 2005: The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the Company revises estimates of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable, and the impact of the revision of original estimates is recognised, if any, in the income statement and a corresponding adjustment is made to equity.
Share capital and share premium Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Own shares held by the Companys employee share trusts are deducted at cost from equity.
