69 Alliance UniChem Plc Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 1 GENERAL INFORMATION Alliance UniChem Plc is a public company incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The address of its registered office is disclosed in the Shareholder information section of the annual report.
The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries are described in note 4.
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below: Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for the first time.
The disclosures required by IFRS in relation to the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS are provided in note 50.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The Group has taken the exemption permitted by IFRS 1 to apply IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement from 1 January 2005.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with relevant IFRS and IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards has been applied in preparing these financial statements.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale investments and any financial assets and liabilities that are held for trading.
First time adoption IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards sets out the procedures to be followed when IFRS is adopted for the first time.
The Group is required to determine its IFRS accounting policies and apply these retrospectively to determine its opening balance sheet under IFRS.
The standard allows a number of exceptions to this general principle to assist companies as they transition to reporting under IFRS.
The Group has chosen the following options: Business combinations: Business combinations prior to the opening balance sheet date 1 January 2004 have not been restated.
Employee benefits: All actuarial gains and losses arising on defined benefit pensions schemes have been recognised in equity at the transition date.
This is to maintain consistency with the treatment under FRS 17 and the policy going forward of taking actuarial gains and losses directly to reserves via the statement of recognised income and expense.
Share-based payments: Only equity instruments granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested prior to 1 January 2005 have been included in the charge to income.
Cumulative translation differences: One of the requirements of IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates is that, on disposal of an operation, the cumulative amount of exchange differences previously recognised directly in equity for that foreign operation is to be transferred to the income statement as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
The Group has adopted the exemption allowing these cumulative translation differences to be reset to zero at the transition date.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: Comparatives have not been restated for IAS 32 and IAS 39.
As a result, the figures for 2004 comparatives are presented under the previously reported UK GAAP basis.
2005 figures reflect the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 from 1 January 2005.
The adjustments required to the opening balance sheet at 1 January 2005 are: Derivative financial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet at their fair value as financial assets or liabilities and reported separately.
The carrying values of borrowings held by the Group which are designated within an effective fair value hedge relationship are also adjusted to reflect movements associated with the hedged risks.
The net effect of these adjustments at 1 January 2005 was to reduce equity by 15.6 million due to the recognition of additional financial liabilities of 22.3 million, partially offset by related deferred taxation of 6.7 million: and Other investments are categorised as available-for-sale and recorded at fair value.
The effect of this at 1 January 2005 was to increase equity by 3.5 million due to an increase in the carrying value of these investments of 3.9 million, partially offset by the related deferred taxation liability of 0.4 million.
The combined effect of these adjustments was to reduce shareholders equity by 12.1 million at 1 January 2005, as shown in the Reconciliation of movements in total equity statement.
Early adoption The Group has applied IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations from 1 January 2004 and has elected to early adopt the option offered by the amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits allowing actuarial gains and losses to be taken directly to reserves via the statement of recognised income and expense.
