117 Alliance UniChem Plc Notes to the Company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 A ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention in accordance with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting principles and applicable accounting standards.
The principal accounting policies adopted within that convention are set out below.
The accounting policies have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year with the exception of the adoption of: FRS 21 Events after the Balance Sheet Date FRS 21 removes the requirement to accrue for proposed dividends at the balance sheet date if they have not been approved.
A prior year adjustment increasing net assets by 43.5 million at 31 December 2004 results from this change in accounting policy.
FRS 25 Financial instruments: disclosure and presentation and FRS 26 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement The application of FRS 25 and FRS 26 affects the Group balance sheet principally in respect of derivative financial instruments which are recognised in the balance sheet at their fair value as financial assets or liabilities.
The carrying values of borrowings held by the Group which are designated within an effective fair value hedge relationship are also adjusted to reflect movements associated with the hedged risks.
The accounting policy is described more fully in the derivative financial instruments policy below.
FRS 25 and FRS 26 allow companies to opt to apply these standards from the date of the opening balance sheet of the first period reported under the standards without restating the comparative period.
The Company has chosen this option.
The net effect of this change in accounting policy at 1 January 2005 is to reduce net assets by 13.6 million due to the recognition of additional financial liabilities of 19.9 million, partially offset by related deferred taxation of 6.3 million.
As permitted by the standard, the Company has not included the disclosure requirements of FRS 25 in these financial statements as the Company is included in the consolidated financial statements within this annual report which include disclosures that comply with FRS 25.
Tangible assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost of these assets to their estimated residual values on a straight-line basis over the period of their estimated useful economic lives: Long and short leasehold properties the shorter of the period of the lease and 50 years.
Taxation Current tax is the amount payable or recoverable in respect of the taxable profit or loss for the year.
Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law, at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from either the revaluation of fixed assets or rolled over gains where there is no commitment to sell the asset.
Deferred tax is only provided on remittable earnings of subsidiaries and associates where there is a commitment to remit the earnings.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as more likely than not to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Currency translation Transactions denominated in currencies other than the Companys functional currency are translated into the Companys functional currency at the exchange rate ruling on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate ruling on the balance sheet date with any currency translation differences recognised in the profit and loss account.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Company include interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, interest rate caps and forward exchange contracts.
These derivative financial instruments are used to manage the foreign currency and interest rate risk of the Companys and Groups borrowings and investments.
To 31 December 2004: The Company has used derivative financial instruments to hedge its and the Groups exposures to fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates.
Instruments accounted for as hedges were structured so as to reduce the market risk associated with the underlying transaction being hedged.
If the underlying transaction being hedged ceased to exist, the hedge was typically cancelled and the profit or loss recognised in the profit and loss account immediately.
Receipts and payments on interest rate instruments were recognised on an accruals basis over the life of the instrument.
Foreign exchange contracts hedging balance sheet assets and liabilities were revalued at closing rates and exchange differences arising were taken to the statement of recognised income and expense.
Gains and losses on contracts hedging foreign currency forecast transactional cash flows were recognised in the hedged periods.
