69 Alliance UniChem Plc Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 1 GENERAL INFORMATION Alliance UniChem Plc is a public company incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The address of its registered office is disclosed in the Shareholder information section of the annual report.
The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries are described in note 4.
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below: Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for the first time.
The disclosures required by IFRS in relation to the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS are provided in note 50.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The Group has taken the exemption permitted by IFRS 1 to apply IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement from 1 January 2005.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with relevant IFRS and IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards has been applied in preparing these financial statements.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale investments and any financial assets and liabilities that are held for trading.
First time adoption IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards sets out the procedures to be followed when IFRS is adopted for the first time.
The Group is required to determine its IFRS accounting policies and apply these retrospectively to determine its opening balance sheet under IFRS.
The standard allows a number of exceptions to this general principle to assist companies as they transition to reporting under IFRS.
The Group has chosen the following options: Business combinations: Business combinations prior to the opening balance sheet date 1 January 2004 have not been restated.
Employee benefits: All actuarial gains and losses arising on defined benefit pensions schemes have been recognised in equity at the transition date.
This is to maintain consistency with the treatment under FRS 17 and the policy going forward of taking actuarial gains and losses directly to reserves via the statement of recognised income and expense.
Share-based payments: Only equity instruments granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested prior to 1 January 2005 have been included in the charge to income.
Cumulative translation differences: One of the requirements of IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates is that, on disposal of an operation, the cumulative amount of exchange differences previously recognised directly in equity for that foreign operation is to be transferred to the income statement as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
The Group has adopted the exemption allowing these cumulative translation differences to be reset to zero at the transition date.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: Comparatives have not been restated for IAS 32 and IAS 39.
As a result, the figures for 2004 comparatives are presented under the previously reported UK GAAP basis.
2005 figures reflect the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 from 1 January 2005.
The adjustments required to the opening balance sheet at 1 January 2005 are: Derivative financial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet at their fair value as financial assets or liabilities and reported separately.
The carrying values of borrowings held by the Group which are designated within an effective fair value hedge relationship are also adjusted to reflect movements associated with the hedged risks.
The net effect of these adjustments at 1 January 2005 was to reduce equity by 15.6 million due to the recognition of additional financial liabilities of 22.3 million, partially offset by related deferred taxation of 6.7 million: and Other investments are categorised as available-for-sale and recorded at fair value.
The effect of this at 1 January 2005 was to increase equity by 3.5 million due to an increase in the carrying value of these investments of 3.9 million, partially offset by the related deferred taxation liability of 0.4 million.
The combined effect of these adjustments was to reduce shareholders equity by 12.1 million at 1 January 2005, as shown in the Reconciliation of movements in total equity statement.
Early adoption The Group has applied IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations from 1 January 2004 and has elected to early adopt the option offered by the amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits allowing actuarial gains and losses to be taken directly to reserves via the statement of recognised income and expense.
70 Alliance UniChem Plc Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of the disposal, as appropriate.
An associate is an entity over which the Group, either directly or indirectly, is in a position to exercise significant influence by participating in, but not controlling, the financial and operating policies of the entity.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method.
Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups interest in the associate are not recognised, except to the extent that the Group has incurred obligations in respect of the associate.
Unrealised profits and losses recognised by the Group on transactions with an associate are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associate concerned.
All intra-group transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Currency translation At entity level, transactions denominated in currencies other than the entitys functional currency are translated into the entitys functional currency at the exchange rate ruling on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate ruling on the balance sheet date with any currency translation differences recognised in the income statement.
The Groups presentation currency is Sterling.
On consolidation, the results of entities whose functional currency is other than Sterling are translated into Sterling at the average exchange rate for the year.
The assets and liabilities of entities whose functional currency is other than Sterling are translated into Sterling at the exchange rate ruling on the balance sheet date.
Currency translation differences are recognised in the currency translation reserve.
The results, assets and liabilities of entities operating in hyper-inflationary economies are adjusted to reflect current price levels before translation, taking any gain or loss on the net monetary position through the income statement.
Revenue recognition Revenue shown on the face of the income statement is the amount derived from the sale of goods in the normal course of business outside the Group, net of trade discounts, value added tax and other sales-related taxes.
Revenue is recognised at the point at which title passes.
Interest and investment income is recognised separately under finance income on the face of the income statement.
Goodwill and intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets of the acquired subsidiary or associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses, and any impairment arising is recognised in the income statement.
Gains and losses on the disposal of a business include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the business sold.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated.
b Intangible assets retail pharmacy licences Retail pharmacy licences, being the exclusive right to be reimbursed for the dispensing of prescription medicines from a specified location, are capitalised where there is an asset that can be separated from other identifiable assets that together form a retail pharmacy business.
Where they have a finite economic life, they are amortised over that economic life.
Where they do not have a finite economic life, they are not amortised and are subjected to an annual impairment test, and any impairment arising is recognised in the income statement.
The cost of retail pharmacy licences less any impairment and amortisation is included in intangible fixed assets.
c Intangible assets computer software Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised separately as an intangible asset.
Amortisation is provided on a straight-line basis so as to charge the cost of the software to the income statement over its expected useful life, which does not exceed five years.
71 Alliance UniChem Plc 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost of these assets to their estimated residual values on a straight-line basis over the period of their estimated useful economic lives: Freehold buildings 50 years Long and short leasehold properties the shorter of the period of the lease and 50 years Furniture, fittings, plant and equipment between three and ten years Vehicles between three and ten years Freehold land is not depreciated.
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted where appropriate.
Taxation Current tax is the amount payable or recoverable in respect of the taxable profit or loss for the year.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Groups financial statements.
However, if the deferred tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investment in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity, not in the income statement.
Impairment of tangible assets, intangible fixed assets and goodwill Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows referred to as cash-generating units.
Cash and cash equivalents In the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents includes cash at bank and cash in hand, short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Inventories Inventories consist of goods held for resale and are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is met only when the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition and the sale is highly probable within one year from the date of classification.
Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
72 Alliance UniChem Plc Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Other investments Available-for-sale investments To 31 December 2004: Other investments comprise listed and unlisted investments in companies other than subsidiaries and associates.
Other investments are recorded at cost less provisions for impairment.
From 1 January 2005: The Group classifies its listed and unlisted investments as available-for-sale financial assets which are measured at fair value and accounted for on a settlement date basis.
The fair values of quoted investments are based on current bid prices and for investments where there is no quoted market price, fair value is determined by using valuation techniques, such as estimated discounted cash flows or by reference to the current market value of similar investments.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair values are recognised in equity until the investment is either disposed of or derecognised.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group include interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, interest rate caps and forward exchange contracts.
These derivative financial instruments are used to manage the foreign currency and interest rate risk of the Groups borrowings and investments.
To 31 December 2004: The Group has used derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposures to fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates.
Instruments accounted for as hedges were structured so as to reduce the market risk associated with the underlying transaction being hedged.
If the underlying transaction being hedged ceased to exist, the hedge was typically cancelled and the profit or loss recognised in the income statement immediately.
Receipts and payments on interest rate instruments were recognised on an accruals basis over the life of the instrument.
Foreign exchange contracts hedging balance sheet assets and liabilities were revalued at closing rates and exchange differences arising were taken to the statement of recognised income and expense.
Gains and losses on contracts hedging foreign currency forecast transactional cash flows were recognised in the hedged periods.
Cash flows associated with derivative financial instruments were classified in the cash flow statement in a manner consistent with those of the transaction being hedged.
Finance costs associated with debt issuances were charged to the income statement over the life of the issue.
From 1 January 2005: Derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges in line with the Groups risk management policies.
Derivatives are measured at fair value.
The accounting treatment is determined by the type of hedge relationship adopted and falls into the following categories: Fair value hedges gains and losses on the derivative instrument are recognised in the income statement and the carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted to reflect movements associated with the hedged risks where the relationship is assessed to be effective.
Where there is hedge accounting ineffectiveness the gain or loss on the derivative is recognised immediately in the income statement and the underlying hedged item is recognised at amortised cost with no adjustment to the carrying value permitted.
Cash flow hedges gains and losses on the derivative instrument are recognised in equity where the relationship is assessed to be effective.
Gains and losses deferred in equity are recycled through the income statement at the time that the hedged item is recognised in the income statement.
Where there is hedge accounting ineffectiveness, the gain or loss arising since the date the relationship was last assessed to be effective is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Any gains and losses deferred in equity continue to be deferred in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
Net investment hedges gains and losses on the derivative instrument are recognised in equity where the relationship is assessed to be effective.
Those derivatives which are not designated as hedges are classified as held-for-trading and gains and losses on the derivative financial instrument are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Borrowings held by the Group are measured at amortised cost except where the underlying transaction is designated within an effective fair value hedge relationship.
In these cases the carrying value is adjusted to reflect movements associated with the hedged risks.
