123 Alliance UniChem Plc N PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS The principal subsidiary undertakings of Alliance UniChem Plc, all of which were indirectly held, were: Interest in ordinary share capital and Country of Country of voting rights operation incorporation Main activity Northern Europe Wholesale UniChem Limited 100% UK UK pharmaceutical wholesaler Interpharm B. V. 100% The Netherlands The Netherlands pharmaceutical wholesaler Alliance UniChem CZ Spo 97.1% Czech Republic Czech Republic pharmaceutical wholesaler Holtung A. S. 100% Norway Norway pharmaceutical wholesaler Southern Europe Wholesale Alliance Sant S. A.
99.8% France France pharmaceutical wholesaler Alleanza Salute Italia SpA 100% Italy Italy pharmaceutical wholesaler and holding company Safa Galenica S. A.
99.2% Spain Spain pharmaceutical wholesaler Alloga S. A.
100% Europe Luxembourg holding company for a number of pre-wholesalers Retail E. Moss Limited 100% UK UK retail pharmacy operator Alliance UniChem Norge A. S. 100% Norway Norway retail pharmacy operator fide Vier Vijzels B. V. 100% The Netherlands The Netherlands retail pharmacy operator As permitted by section 231 5 of the Companies Act 1985, only principal undertakings are shown.
A complete list of all subsidiary undertakings is filed with the Companys annual return.
O PRINCIPAL ASSOCIATED UNDERTAKINGS The principal associated undertakings of Alliance UniChem Plc are set out in the table below.
Except for 25% of the interest in Hedef Alliance Holding A. S. these were indirectly held.
Interest in ordinary share capital and Country of Country of voting rights operation incorporation Main activity 1 Alliance UniChem Farmacutica S. A.
49% Portugal Portugal pharmaceutical wholesaler Andreae-Noris Zahn AG 29.99% Germany Germany pharmaceutical wholesaler 2 Galenica A. G. 25.5% Switzerland Switzerland pharmaceutical wholesaler Hedef Alliance Holding A. S. 50% Turkey Turkey pharmaceutical wholesaler Pharmapartners B. V. 40% The Netherlands The Netherlands pharmaceutical software UniDrug Distribution Group Limited 50% United Kingdom United Kingdom pre-wholesaler Unifarma Distribuzione S. r. l. 36% Italy Italy pharmaceutical wholesaler 1 The Group previously owned 100% of the ordinary share capital of Alliance UniChem Farmacutica S. A.. 51% of the ordinary share capital was disposed of during the year.
2 All shares have the same voting rights, but no shareholder may exercise more than 20% of the votes.
P CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The Group offers its UK wholesale customers access to long term financing for their pharmacy businesses through financing arrangements developed by the Group with its banks.
The Company supports these arrangements through the provision of guarantees, which at 31 December 2005 amounted to 19.6 million 2004 18.6 million.
