Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 67 SPECIAL BUSINESS AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The notice of the Annual General Meeting on page 65 sets No dividends have been paid on shares whilst held in out the following special business resolutions 10, 11, 12 treasury and no voting rights attach to the treasury shares.
Resolution 12 renews the Companys general authority to repurchase up to 238,940,543 of its own shares in the ALLOTMENT OF SHARES market being less than 15% of the Companys issued Resolution 10 authorises the Directors to allot Ordinary share capital, excluding the 142,954,168 Ordinary shares shares of the Company up to an aggregate nominal held in treasury as at 5 September 2005, being the latest amount of 5,309,790 being approximately one third of the practicable date prior to the publication of the document Companys issued share capital excluding the 142,954,168 at or between the maximum and minimum prices specified Ordinary shares held in treasury as at 5 September 2005, in the resolution giving the authority.
being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the document.
This authority will expire at the conclusion LONG TERM CO-INVESTMENT PLAN of the next Annual General Meeting.
The Directors have Resolution 13 seeks shareholder approval for a number no present intention of using this authority.
of amendments to the Long Term Co-Investment Plan the Resolution 11 empowers the Directors to allot Ordinary Plan.
The Plan was approved by shareholders in 2003 shares of the Company including Ordinary shares held in and its operation is summarised on pages 32-33 of the treasury as if the pre-emption provisions of Section 89 of Directors Remuneration Report.
The proposed amendments the Companies Act 1985 did not apply, provided that such to the Plan are set out below and if shareholder approval power of the Directors is limited to the allotment of Ordinary is obtained, will take effect for invitations from 2005 06. shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 796,468 a To the extent that matching shares vest, participants will being 5% of the Companys issued share capital, excluding be entitled to receive an additional number of shares the 142,954,168 ordinary shares held in treasury as at 5 that represents the value of the dividends that would September 2005, being the latest practicable date prior to have been paid on those matching shares during the the publication of the document other than the allotment performance period.
The number of additional shares of Ordinary shares pursuant to a rights issue.
This power will will be determined by reference to the share price on expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
each relevant dividend payment date.
Participants will These two resolutions comply with the guidelines issued by not be required to invest the dividends paid on their the various investor protection committees.
committed shares: b Currently executive Directors can invest as committed AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE OWN SHARES shares an amount up to 20% of annual remuneration: At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on these committed shares are eligible for matching.
23 November 2004, shareholders gave the Company Shareholder approval is being sought to increase permission, until the conclusion of the Annual General this limit to an amount equal to 30% of annual Meeting to be held on 3 November 2005, to purchase remuneration.
For Executive Committee members up to 260,369,178 Ordinary shares of the Company.
the current 20% limit will increase to 25% of annual The Board has indicated its intention to continue to return remuneration: and surplus cash to shareholders via the on-market purchase of c In order to encourage wider participation in the Plan its own shares until the cumulative total amount returned is amongst managers who are neither executive Directors at least 300 million.
Shares will only be purchased if to do nor Executive Committee members, such managers will so would result in an increase in earnings per share and is be permitted to treat restricted shares as committed in the best interest of shareholders generally.
Restricted shares, which involve During the period from 24 November 2004 to 30 June 2005, a conditional award of free shares, are designed to the Company purchased 100,793,970 ordinary shares at encourage retention and have been introduced following a weighted average price, excluding transaction costs, of a review of remuneration arrangements for managers 126.15 pence.
Including transaction costs, the total aggregate below Executive Committee level.
The percentage of issued The proposed amended rules of the Long Term Co-Investment capital purchased was 5.8%.
Plan will be available for inspection at the registered ofce of The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury the Company on weekdays Saturdays and public holidays Shares Regulations 2003 the Regulations allow excepted during business hours from the date of this companies to hold shares acquired by way of market notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and will, purchase in treasury, rather than having to cancel them.
The on the day of the Annual General Meeting, be available for directors may use the authority to purchase shares and hold inspection at the place of the meeting from 11.45am until them in treasury and subsequently sell or transfer them out the conclusion of the meeting.
of treasury as permitted in accordance with the Regulations rather than cancel them, subject to institutional guidelines applicable at the time.
The shares purchased by the Company in the period are being held in treasury.
