Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 65 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the eighteenth Annual Resolution No 12 General Meeting of Hays plc will be held at Grocers Hall, Special Resolution Princes Street, London EC2R 8AD at 12 noon on Thursday, THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and 3 November 2005, for the following purposes: unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the Companies Act ORDINARY BUSINESS 1985 as amended of Ordinary shares of 1p each in the Resolution No 1 capital of the Company Ordinary shares provided that: To receive and adopt the Accounts for the year ended a the maximum number of Ordinary shares hereby 30 June 2005 and the reports of the Directors and authorised to be purchased is 238,940,543: Auditors thereon.
b the minimum price which may be paid for each Ordinary Resolution No 2 share is 1p: To declare a final dividend for the year ended 30 June c the maximum price which may be paid for each Ordinary 2005 which, if approved, will be paid on 8 November 2005 share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of to shareholders on the register at the close of business on the middle market quotations for an Ordinary share as 7 October 2005. derived from the Daily Ofcial List of the UK Listing Resolution No 3 Authority for the five business days immediately To approve the Boards report on remuneration.
preceding the day on which the Ordinary share is To re-appoint the following Directors who, having been purchased: and appointed since the last Annual General Meeting, will retire d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment: Company or 31 December 2006, whichever is earlier Resolution No 4 except in relation to the purchase of Ordinary shares Mr C W Eccleshare the contract for which was concluded before such date and which would or might be executed wholly or partly Resolution No 5 after such date, unless such authority is renewed prior Mr P H Stoneham to such time.
To re-elect the following Directors who retire from the Resolution No 13 Board by rotation: Ordinary Resolution Resolution No 6 THAT the Directors be and are hereby authorised to amend Mr J W Martin the Long Term Co-Investment Plan in accordance with the Resolution No 7 revised draft rules produced to the meeting and initialled Mr B G Wallace by the Chairman and summarised in the explanatory notes Biographical details for the current Directors are shown to the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 67. on page 25.
Words and expressions dened in or for the purposes of Resolution No 8 the Companies Act 1985 as amended shall bear the same To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as Auditors of meaning herein.
the Company until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
141 Moorgate Resolution No 9 London To authorise the Directors to agree the remuneration EC2M 6TX of the Auditors of the Company.
By order of the Board SPECIAL BUSINESS Resolution No 10 Ordinary Resolution THAT the authority conferred on the Directors by Article S J Cox 12 of the Companys Articles of Association be renewed Company Secretary for a period expiring at the conclusion of the next Annual 4 October 2005 General Meeting of the Company after the date on which this resolution is passed and for that period the Section 80 amount shall be 5,309,790.
Resolution No 11 Special Resolution THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 10 above the power conferred on the Directors by Article 13 of the Companys Articles of Association be renewed for a period expiring at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the date on which this resolution is passed and for that period the Section 89 amount shall be 796,468.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 13 of the Companys Articles of Association, this power applies in relation to a sale of shares which is an allotment of equity securities by virtue of Section 94 3A of the Companies Act 1985.
Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 66 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING continued Notes 1 A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint one or more 6 The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerticated proxies to attend and on a poll, vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need Securities Regulations 2001, species that only those members not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed which entered in the register of members of the company at the close you are invited to complete and return not less than 48 hours before of business at 12 noon on 1 November 2005, or, if this meeting is the time appointed for holding the meeting, or any adjournment thereof.
adjourned, in the register of members 48 hours before the time of any Completion and return of the proxy form in accordance with the adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting instructions thereon will not prevent you from attending and voting at in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in their name the meeting, instead of your proxy, if you wish to do so.
Those attending at that time.
Changes to the entries in the register of members after the meeting should bring with them the attendance card attached to the 12 noon on 1 November 2005 or, if this meeting is adjourned, in form of proxy.
the register of members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person 2 The register of interests of Directors and their families together with to attend or vote at the meeting.
copies of the Directors service contracts and non-executive Directors letters of appointment will be available for inspection at the registered ofce of the Company on weekdays Saturdays and public holidays excepted during usual business hours from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and will, on the day of the Annual General Meeting, be available for inspection at the place of the meeting from 11.45am until the conclusion of the meeting.
3 The proposed amended rules of the Long Term Co-Investment Plan will be available for inspection at the registered ofce of the Company on weekdays Saturdays and public holidays excepted during business hours from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and will, on the day of the Annual General Meeting, be available for inspection at the place of the meeting from 11.45am until the conclusion of the meeting.
4 Mr J W Martin has a service contract which will at the date of the Annual General Meeting have a period of one year unexpired.
Messrs C W Eccelshare, P H Stoneham and B G Wallace do not have service contracts with the Company.
5 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 3 November and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001.
