Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 42 ACCOUNTING POLICIES The accounting policies adopted which have been applied consistently in the current and preceding years are described below.
A ACCOUNTING CONVENTION The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards using the historical cost convention.
B CONSOLIDATION The financial statements consolidate the accounts of Hays plc and all of its subsidiary undertakings subsidiaries.
The results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are included from the effective date of acquisition.
The results of subsidiaries sold are included up to the effective date of disposal.
C TURNOVER Turnover represents the value of services provided, net of VAT, other sales related taxes and discounts given.
Turnover arising from the placement of permanent candidates is recognised at the time the candidate commences full time employment.
Provision is made for the expected cost of meeting obligations where employees do not work for the specified contractual period.
Turnover from temporary placements is recognised over the period that temporary staff are provided.
Where the Group is acting as a principal, turnover represents the amounts billed for the services of temporary staff, including the salary costs of those staff.
Where the Group is acting as an agent, turnover represents commission receivable relating to the supply of temporary staff and does not include the salary costs of the temporary staff.
D INVESTMENTS Shares in subsidiaries are valued at cost less provision for impairment.
Investments in associated undertakings associated companies are stated at the amount of the Groups share of net assets.
The consolidated profit and loss account includes the Groups share of associated companies profits after taxation.
E TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS AND DEPRECIATION Tangible fixed assets are initially recorded at cost.
Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis over the anticipated useful working lives of the assets, after they have been brought into use, at the following rates: Freehold land No depreciation is provided Freehold buildings At rates varying between 2% and 10% Leasehold properties The book value is written off over the unexpired period of the lease Plant and machinery At rates varying between 5% and 33% Fixtures and fittings At rates varying between 10% and 25% FGOODWILL Goodwill is the surplus of cost over the fair value attributed to the net assets of subsidiary undertakings acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 July 1998 has been written off against reserves.
Goodwill previously written off to reserves is charged to the profit and loss account when the related business is sold.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions made after 30 June 1998 is capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis over the shorter of its estimated useful economic life and 10 years.
G LEASED ASSETS Certain items of plant and machinery giving rights approximating to ownership are included in the balance sheet as fixed assets at cost less accumulated depreciation.
The capital element of future rentals is treated as a liability.
The interest element is charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the finance leases in proportion to the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Lease rentals in respect of operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account in the period in which the leasing expenditure is incurred.
H DEFERRED TAXATION Deferred tax is provided in full on all timing differences which result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in financial statements.
Deferred tax is not provided on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and associates where there is no commitment to remit these earnings.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
I PENSION COSTS The Group operates a number of pension schemes under which retirement benefits for employees are funded by contributions from Group companies and employees.
The Group accounts for pension costs in accordance with SSAP 24 and has adopted the disclosure requirements under the transitional arrangements for implementing FRS 17 Retirement Benefits.
J FOREIGN CURRENCIES The assets and liabilities, including goodwill, of foreign subsidiaries denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates ruling at the year end.
Profits and losses of foreign subsidiaries are translated into sterling at average rates of exchange for the year.
The differences arising from the retranslation of the opening balance sheets and retained earnings of foreign subsidiaries at the year end rate are dealt with through reserves, as are differences on long term foreign currency borrowings used to finance overseas investment.
Other translation differences are dealt with in the profit and loss account.
