Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 43 Statement of Directors responsibilities Directors statements of responsibility in relation to the The Directors confirm that the financial statements comply consolidated financial statements.
The Directors are required by law to prepare consolidated The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting financial statements of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC and its records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time subsidiaries together the Group in accordance with the the financial position of the Group, for safeguarding the Companies Act 1985, International Financial Reporting assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and Standards and Article 4 of the IAS regulation.
detection of fraud and irregularities and the preparation of a Directors report and Directors remuneration report which The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Report and the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and International Accounting Standard 1 requires that the integrity of the Companys website where the Groups financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Annual Report and accounts are available.
Information Groups financial position, financial performance and cash published on the internet is accessible in many countries flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects where legal requirements may differ from the United of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance Kingdoms legislation relating to the preparation and with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, dissemination of financial statements.
liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements of IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial performance.
