Accounting policies Basis of preparation Foreign currencies The consolidated accounts of the Company and its Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded subsidiaries are made up to the Saturday on or immediately at the rates of exchange ruling at the date of the transactions.
Consequently, the financial Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign statements for the current period cover the 53 weeks ended currencies are retranslated into sterling either at period-end 30 April 2005, whilst the comparative period covered the rates or, where there are related foreign exchange contracts, at 52 weeks ended 24 April 2004.
The consolidated accounts are contract rates.
The resulting foreign exchange differences are prepared under the historical cost convention, in accordance dealt with in the determination of profit loss for the period.
with applicable accounting standards and specifically in On consolidation, average exchange rates have been accordance with the accounting policies set out below.
used to translate the results of overseas companies and The accounting policies set out below are consistent with businesses, and the assets and liabilities of overseas the previous year.
companies and businesses are translated into sterling at period-end rates.
Exchange differences are dealt with as a movement in Basis of consolidation reserves where they arise from the translation of the opening The consolidated accounts comprise the accounts of the net assets of overseas operations, the retranslation of retained Company and its subsidiaries.
The comparative results of all earnings of overseas operations from average to closing rates subsidiaries were taken from their accounts made up to or of exchange and the translation or conversion of foreign about 30 April 2005.
The results of subsidiaries acquired currency borrowings taken to hedge overseas assets.
during a period are included from the date that effective In addition, exchange differences arising on the retranslation control passed.
of goodwill at historic rates are also taken to Group reserves.
Turnover Advertising costs Turnover represents the value of goods and services supplied, Advertising costs are expensed as incurred.
Turnover excludes value added tax VAT and similar sales-related taxes.
Leased assets In respect of property operating leases, benefits received and Goodwill receivable as an incentive to sign a lease are spread on a Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 25 April 1998 was set straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease term and the off directly against reserves.
Goodwill previously eliminated period to the date of the first rent review.
All other operating against reserves has not been reinstated on implementation of lease payments are charged directly to the profit and loss FRS 10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets.
account in the financial period to which the payments relate.
Positive goodwill arising on acquisitions since 25 April 1998 is capitalised, classified as an asset on the balance sheet and amortised on a straight-line basis over its useful economic Tangible fixed assets life up to a presumed maximum of 20 years.
It is reviewed for The capitalised cost of tangible fixed assets includes only impairment at the end of the first full financial year following those costs that are directly attributable to bringing an asset the acquisition and in other periods if events or changes to its working condition for its intended use.
in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is calculated on be recoverable.
cost, at rates estimated to write off the cost less the estimated If a subsidiary, associate or business is subsequently residual value of the relevant assets by equal annual amounts sold or closed, any goodwill arising on acquisition that was set over their estimated useful lives.
off directly against reserves or that has not been amortised The annual rates used are: through the profit and loss account is taken into account in Short-term leasehold property Period of the lease determining the profit or loss on sale or closure.
1 Plant, equipment and vehicles 10% to 33 3% The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are reviewed Intangible assets for material impairment in periods if events or changes Intangible assets are valued at cost and amortised over their in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not useful life up to a presumed maximum of 20 years, unless be recoverable.
the asset can be demonstrated to have an indefinite life.
Assets amortised over 20 years or less are reviewed for impairment at the end of the first full financial year following Stocks the acquisition and in other periods if events or changes in Stocks, which represent finished goods and goods for resale, circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value on a recoverable.
Non-amortisation is supported by an annual first-in, first-out basis.
53 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Accounting policies continued Deferred taxation Capital instruments The charge for taxation is based on the profits for the period Shares are included in shareholders funds.
Other instruments and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing are classified as liabilities if they contain an obligation to differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation transfer economic benefits and if not they are included in and accounting purposes.
The finance cost recognised in the profit Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing and loss account in respect of capital instruments other than differences that have originated but not reversed at the equity shares is allocated to periods over the term of the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in instrument at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax Investment in own shares assets are recognised only to the extent that it is more likely Investments in own shares, held through an Employee Benefit than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which Trust, are shown as a deduction from shareholders equity at the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can cost in accordance with UITF 38. be deducted.
The rates used to calculate deferred tax are those which are enacted or substantively enacted at the Deferred bonus scheme balance sheet date.
The cost of awards made under the deferred annual bonus component of the HIPS is charged to the profit and loss Pension costs account based on an assessment of the probability of the The Company operates both defined benefit and defined performance conditions being met.
The charge is allocated on contribution pension schemes.
a straight-line basis over the performance period of the For the defined benefit schemes pension costs are scheme.
The corresponding credit entry is taken to profit and charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost loss reserve in accordance with UITF 17.
Full details of the of the pensions over the working lives of the employees.
HIPS are given in the Remuneration Report.
Valuation surpluses or deficits are amortised over the expected remaining working life within the Group of the relevant employees estimated to be 11 years in respect of the United Kingdom.
The amortisation of valuation surpluses is restricted to an amount equal to the regular pension cost.
For the defined contribution schemes, contributions are charged in the profit and loss account as they become payable in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
Derivative instruments The Group may from time to time use derivative instruments for hedging purposes, including cross-currency swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts, foreign currency options and interest rate contracts.
A financial derivative is considered to be a hedge by the Group when it alters the risk profile of an existing underlying exposure of the Group in line with the risk management policies of the Group.
Interest differentials on derivative instruments are recognised by adjusting net interest payable.
Premiums or discounts arising on derivative instruments are amortised over the life of the instrument.
Forward rate agreements, currency swap agreements and forward foreign exchange contracts are valued at the contract rate in respect of their ongoing carrying value in the financial statements and at closing market rates of exchange for market valuation.
The fair value of options is based on market prices at the year end.
The Group generally does not hedge translation exposure of overseas earnings or net assets, although the Group may implement short-term hedges to secure short-term financial objectives.
The underlying asset or liability associated with the financial instrument is valued at the rate implicit in the instrument.
54 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005
