Statement of Directors Responsibilities The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the The directors have responsibility for keeping accounting records which auditors statement of their responsibilities set out on the following disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of page, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the the Company and the Group and which enable them to ensure that the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985. to the accounts.
The directors have responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year and the pro t or loss of the Group for the financial year.
The directors, having prepared the accounts, are required to provide the auditors with such information and explanation as the auditors think In preparing these accounts, the directors are required to: necessary for the performance of their duty.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts: and prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
50 Report & Accounts 2005 24539 HS Report 2005 p ges 34-83 2 col. indd 50 1 6 05 5:06:24 pm Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the Members of cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of Homeserve plc the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control We have audited the financial statements of Homeserve plc for the procedures.
year ended 31 March 2005 which comprise the consolidated profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the supplementary statements, the We read the directors report and the other information contained in consolidated cash flow statement and notes to the cash flow statement, the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section and the related notes 1 to 31.
These financial statements have been including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report and prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any audited the information in the part of the directors remuneration report apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit Basis of audit opinion work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the Companys directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial of the other information contained in the annual report including the statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been Opinion audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors In our opinion: report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the of the Company and the Group as at 31 March 2005 and of the loss information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information of the Group for the year then ended: and specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the financial statements and part of the directors remuneration the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Deloitte & Touche LLP Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control Birmingham 23 May 2005 Homeserve plc 51 24539 HS Report 2005 p ges 34-83 2 col. indd 51 1 6 05 5:06:25 pm
