Notes to the financial statements 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES ACCOUNTING CONVENTION The regulation for reporting under the International Reporting Standards IFRS applies to all accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
The Groups accounting period started on 26 December 2004 and so these financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain land and buildings.
The following principal accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Groups financial statements.
The accounting policies are consistent with those applied to the audited financial statements for the 52 weeks to 25 December 2004, with the exception of the adoption of FRS 17, Retirement benefits in full in 2005.
The Group is required to adopt FRS 17 retrospectively and therefore the comparative figures have been restated.
The new accounting policy for pensions is set out below, and the effect of the restatement is shown in note 23.
BASIS OF PREPARATION The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of MFI Furniture Group Plc and all its subsidiary undertakings for the 52 week period ended 24 December 2005.
These financial statements do not include a separate profit and loss account for MFI Furniture Group Plc the parent company as permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
TURNOVER Turnover represents the net value of goods sold, based on despatch of goods or services provided to customers outside the Group, excluding sales taxes.
GOODWILL Goodwill arising on all acquisitions prior to 24 April 1999 the Groups old accounting period remains eliminated against reserves.
This goodwill will be charged to the profit and loss account on subsequent disposal of the business to which it relates.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions after 24 April 1999 is treated as an asset on the balance sheet and held at cost less amortisation and provision for impairment.
JOINT VENTURES AND FIXED ASSET INVESTMENTS Joint ventures are accounted for in the financial statements of the Group under the gross equity method of accounting.
Investments are stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
REVALUATION OF FIXED ASSETS FRS 15 Tangible fixed assets has been adopted and the directors have decided that, as permitted by the transitional provisions of the standard, properties at valuation have been retained on the basis of their valuation at 1 January 2000.
Freehold and long leasehold properties are included in fixed assets at their latest valuation at that date plus subsequent additions at cost, less depreciation.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED FIXED ASSETS AND DEPRECIATION Fixed assets are stated at cost or valuation, less depreciation, and less any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided to write off the difference between the cost or valuation of tangible fixed assets, excluding freehold land, and their residual value over their estimated useful lives on a straight-line basis.
The current range of useful lives is as follows:......................................................................................................................................................................... Freehold buildings 50 years Long leasehold property over period of lease Short leasehold property over period of lease Fixtures and fitting 2-10 years Plant and machinery 3-10 years STOCKS Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes an attributable proportion of manufacturing overheads based on budgeted levels of activity.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving or defective items where appropriate.
DEFERRED TAXATION Deferred taxation is provided on a full provision basis, without discounting, on all timing differences which have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Except where otherwise required by Accounting Standards no timing differences are recognised in respect of: a. property revaluation surpluses where there is no commitment to sell the asset, and b. gains on sale of assets where those assets have been rolled over into replacement assets, and c. additional tax which would arise if profits of overseas subsidiaries were distributed, and d. deferred tax assets to the extent that they are regarded as not likely to be recovered.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risks.
These may include interest rate swaps and forward currency contracts.
Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate derivatives are accrued with net interest payable over the period of the contract.
Accounting for foreign currency transactions is described in the foreign currency policy set out below.
Note 19 includes disclosures required under FRS 13 Derivatives and other financial instruments.
FOREIGN CURRENCY Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains or losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account.
Gains or losses arising from foreign exchange hedged contracts are taken to the profit and loss account in line with the transactions which they are hedging.
For consolidation purposes, the assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiary undertakings and branches are translated at the closing exchange rates, with the profit and loss account being translated at the average rate applying during the period in which the transactions took place.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED LEASED ASSETS Assets held under finance leases are capitalised as tangible fixed assets and depreciated over the shorter of their estimated useful lives and the period of the lease.
Rentals are apportioned between reductions in the capital obligations included in creditors and finance charges which are charged to the profit and loss account at a constant effective rate of interest.
Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term, even if the payments are not made on such a basis.
Benefits, receivable as incentives to enter into property leases, being reverse premiums and rent-free periods, are spread evenly over the period to the first rent review date.
Pre-opening expenses are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
PENSIONS The Group operates two defined benefit funded pension schemes for directors and other employees.
The pension costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of an independent qualified actuary and are charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the costs over the expected remaining lives of employees.
Both pension schemes are subject to full actuarial valuation every three years.
The Group had adopted the transitional requirements of FRS 17 Retirement benefits in our accounts since the year ended 29 December 2001.
In the year to 24 December 2005, we have now adopted the recognition and measurement principles of the standard.
The effects of this change are shown in note 23.
For defined benefit schemes the amounts charged to operating profit are the current service charge costs and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments.
They are included as part of staff costs.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the profit and loss account if the benefits are vested.
If the benefits have not vested immediately the costs are recognised over the period until vesting occurs.
The interest cost and the expected return on assets are shown as a net amount of other finance costs or credits adjacent to interest.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Defined benefit schemes are funded, with the assets of the scheme held separately from those of the Group, in separate trustee administered funds.
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the scheme liabilities.
The actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date.
The resulting defined asset or liability, net of the related deferred tax, is presented separately after other net assets on the face of the balance sheet.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS SUPPLY CHAIN, RESTRUCTURING COSTS AND SHARE SCHEMES Exceptional items of 5.4m, before tax 2004: 31.9m, are included in operating loss in respect of the supply chain.
In addition, 3.4m has been spent on restructuring in the year.
There has also been a 2.0m net credit in respect of share scheme amortisation and associated national insurance where performance conditions are no longer expected to be met 2004: 7.5m.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEM PENSIONS On 6 May 2004, the Group announced additional pension liabilities arising from a failure to equalise the pension age for men and women at age 65.
Under FRS 17 valuation methods, these additional liabilities were estimated at 50.0m.
In May 2005 the Group wrote to certain members of the UK pension plans offering them an immediate cash payment in exchange for giving up any claim a member may have to possible additional pension benefits arising from the equalisation issue.
The closing date for the offers was 8 July 2005.
By value 87.4% of the eligible members accepted the cash offer.
This has resulted in a total cash payment of 16.0m in respect of all members who have accepted the cash offer in 2005.
The cash has been paid and the expense for all members who accepted the offer has been recognised in these accounts.
The effect of these settlements is to reduce the additional liability originally estimated at 50.0m on an FRS 17 basis by 45.0m.
This reduction in liability has also been reflected in these accounts.
On 14 March 2005 the Group announced that it had received a cash settlement of 12.0m from one of the third parties on whose advice the Group and the pension plan trustees had relied.
The cash payments and the reduction in deficit for all offers accepted, together with the cash settlement received from a third party and the associated legal fees, have been treated as exceptional items, included in operating loss.
Value Added Tax VAT was paid on the furniture element of the transaction and Insurance Premium Tax IPT was paid on the sale of these warranties.
An assessment totalling 60.5m was raised on the VAT on the sale of the warranties and the relevant tax was paid to HM Revenue & Customs at the time.
This payment was carried on the balance sheet as a debtor without any provision, as at the time we believed that we had a strong legal case to recover this money in full.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS CONTINUED C. EXCEPTIONAL ITEM STRUCTURAL GUARANTEE CONTINUED 80% of the insurance was reinsured by the external insurer through the Groups captive insurance company, Southon Insurance Company Limited.
MFI has reached a settlement with HM Revenue & Customs in January 2006 over this VAT dispute as the resource required, and associated litigation risk, was deemed to be a distraction to achieving a successful implementation of the new business strategy.
Both parties have agreed to settle, with HM Revenue & Customs refunding 21.8m to MFI.
As a result, MFI has written off the balance of the receivable of 38.7m in the accounts for the 52 weeks to 24 December 2005.
The money was collected in February 2006.
In addition 14.9m has been provided against the SAP system 2004: 20.0m and 13.0m has been provided against the goodwill relating to the Sofa Workshop acquisition.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS CONTINUED E. PROFIT ON DISPOSAL OF FIXED ASSETS The profit on disposal of fixed assets of 17.4m 52 weeks to 25 December 2004: loss of 2.0m, represents net gains on disposal of land and buildings and fixtures and fittings.
The associated deferred tax credit is 1.3m 25 December 2004: nil.
F. EXCEPTIONAL PROVISION FOR CLOSURE As announced in our press release of 11 May 2005, the Group agreed with our joint venture partners to end the venture, Hygena @ Currys, by mutual agreement following a comprehensive review of the business.
A closure programme for the Hygena concessions, which traded in 130 of Currys 370 stores, is now complete.
In our press release of 1 December 2005, the Group announced it is to close its US pilot operation Howden Millwork.
A closure programme for the 20 depots is in place and we expect trading to cease by April 2006 and operations to cease by June 2006.
In addition, the Group announced the sale of its 50% interest in its Taiwan joint venture to its Taiwanese partner and announced the closure of the UK joint venture with Ethan Allen.
A closure programme for the two Ethan Allen stores is in place and we expect it to be finished by March 2006.
The sale of the Groups 50% interest in its Taiwan joint venture to its Taiwanese partner was completed in December 2005.
In accordance with FRS 3, we have disclosed the costs of closure including provision for future operating losses of these businesses, and have treated them as post-operating exceptional items.
EXCEPTIONAL PROVISION FOR CLOSURE AFTER TAX 17.0 6.
Diluted loss earnings per share excluding exceptional items 5.5 588.4 0.9 31.7 598.9 5.3 Earnings per share EPS excluding exceptional items has been calculated to show the impact of these exceptional items, as they can have a significant effect on earnings and therefore warrant separate consideration.
Freehold properties cost or valuation includes land of 16.8m 2004: 37.1m on which depreciation is not provided.
The directors have decided that, as permitted by FRS 15 Tangible fixed assets, properties at valuation will be retained on the basis of their valuation at 1 January 2000.
The last revaluation performed was in April 1999 when the Groups UK freehold land and buildings, together with the UK long leasehold properties, were valued by Fisher Wilson Property Consultants and King Sturge & Co who are both external qualified valuers and members of the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors RICS.
Properties were valued on an open market value for existing use or depreciated replacement cost bases, as appropriate, in accordance with the RICS Appraisal and Valuation Manual.
Vacant properties were valued on an open market value basis.
The joint venture net assets have not been grossed up on the face of the balance sheet as the amounts are not yet material.
Gross assets at 24 December 2005 totalled 7.1m 2004: 2.8m and gross liabilities totalled 7.0m 2004: 1.9m.
Details of principal subsidiary undertakings are given on page 95.
DERIVATIVES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS A discussion of treasury policy is given in the Operating and financial review on pages14 to 23.
DERIVATIVES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED The following summary shows the Groups currency exposures that give rise to currency gains and losses recognised in the profit and loss account, arising from exposures where monetary assets and liabilities of the Group are not denominated in the operating currency of the subsidiary company concerned.
Medium and long-term borrowings: the fair value is based on market values or where these are not available, on the quoted market price of comparable debt issued by other companies.
The unrealised loss on forward foreign exchange contracts as at 24 December 2005 amounted to 0.9m 25 December 2004: unrealised loss of 1.3m.
All contracts arose during the current year.
All of the unrecognised loss shown at 24 December 2005 is expected to be realised in the following financial year 2004: expected to be realised in the following financial year.
The 12.4m relates to the 45.0m exceptional credit, as well as the difference between the pension charge for the year and the contributions paid.
The property provision represents provision for future rental payments on properties no longer used by the Group.
The timing differences in respect of property revaluation surpluses amounting to 4.0m 2004: 6.5m, and gains on the sale of assets which have been rolled over into replacement assets, are covered by capital losses.
At 24 December 2005 the share price was 78.5p.
EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES The Company maintains three employee share ownership trusts, which hold shares in MFI Furniture Group Plc.
CALLED UP SHARE CAPITAL CONTINUED EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES CONTINUED The trusts have been funded by the employing companies in the Group to acquire shares in MFI Furniture Group Plc.
The cost of running these trusts is included in the profit and loss account.
The Trusts undertake the following activities: MFI EMPLOYEE SHARE TRUST to transfer shares to executive directors when shares vest under MFI share plans.
to transfer share to employees on exercise of various options and awards granted under MFI share plans.
MFI EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST to transfer shares to employees under the MFI Group Profit Sharing Trust.
MFI FREESHARE TRUST to transfer shares to employees when shares vest under the MFI FreeShare Plan.
RESERVES CONTINUED The cumulative amount of goodwill written off against Group profit and loss account reserves in respect of acquisitions prior to 24 April 1999 when FRS 10 Goodwill and intangible assets was adopted amounts to 504.6m 25 December 2004: 504.6m.
Other reserves represent a special reserve of 482.6m less goodwill arising on consolidation of 454.5m.
The Special reserve created as a result of a capital reduction in November 1993 is now distributable.
PENSIONS The Group has adopted FRS 17 Retirement benefits in full with effect from 26 December 2004.
On adopting FRS 17, we are required to change the accounting treatment of our defined benefit pension schemes.
Under FRS 17 we are required to include the assets and liabilities of these schemes on the Group balance sheet.
Current service costs, curtailment and settlement gains and losses, and net financial returns are included in the profit and loss account in the period to which they relate.
Actuarial gains and losses are included in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Group, being invested with independent fund managers.
Contributions are charged to the consolidated profit and loss account so as to spread the cost of pensions over employees working lives with the Group.
The charges are determined by a qualified actuary on the basis of triennial valuations using the projected unit method.
The most recent valuations of the schemes were at 6 April 2005.
The actuarial valuation of the schemes as at 6 April 2005 was updated to 24 December 2005 by an independent qualified actuary on a basis consistent with the requirements of FRS 17 and is reported below.
It showed that the market value of the schemes assets was 412m and that the actuarial value of these assets represented 58% of the benefits that had accrued to members.
These tables can be projected forward to allow for expected future improvements in mortality.
For current pensioners in the scheme, the tables have been projected forward to 2015.
For future pensioners, the tables have been projected forward to 2025.
Should the assignees fail to fulfil any obligations in respect of these leases, members of the Group may be liable for those defaults.
The number of such claims arising to date has been small and the cost, which is charged to profit and loss as it arises, has not been material.
The parent company has guaranteed a US$10.0m letter of credit facility from Standard Chartered Bank in favour of MFI Asia Limited suppliers.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS In December the Group announced the sale of its 50% interest in its Taiwan joint venture to its Taiwanese partner and announced the closure of the UK joint venture with Ethan Allen.
The sale of the Group 50% interest in its Taiwan joint venture to its Taiwanese partner was completed in December 2005.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS On 13 February 2006 the Group completed on the sale of Hygena Cuisines for proceeds of 92.4m.
The impact on the profit is shown on pages 56 to 57.
The impact on the cash flow is shown in note 24.
