AR6868 ICI Report 153 159 13 3 06 9:09 pm Page 159 Forward-looking statements This Annual Report and Accounts contains statements concerning The Company undertakes no obligation to release publicly the the Groups business, financial condition, results of operations results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements that and certain of the Groups plans, objectives, assumptions, may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date of projections, expectations or beliefs with respect to these items.
this Annual Report and Accounts, including, without limitation, These statements are intended as forward-looking statements changes in the Groups business or acquisition or divestment within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigations strategy or planned capital expenditures, or to reflect the Reform Act of 1995.
These statements include, without limitation, occurrence of unanticipated events.
those concerning: By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and the Groups strategy and its ability to achieve it: uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a number of the benefits of the restructuring programmes in the Groups factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ businesses: materially from those expressed or implied by these forwardlooking statements.
These factors include, among other things: the Groups net debt: the Groups credit rating: the impact of competitive products and pricing: expectations regarding sales, operating profit and growth: changes in the price of raw materials: the occurrence of major operational problems: plans for the launch of new products and services: the loss of major customers: the impact of regulatory initiatives on operations and costs: the Groups possible or assumed future results of operations: limitations imposed by the Groups indebtedness and leverage: capital expenditure and investment plans: a credit rating downgrade by the rating agencies: contingent liabilities, including those arising in connection with adequacy of capital and liquidity: disposed businesses: financing plans: risks associated with the Groups international operations: the Groups retirement benefit schemes: risks of claims and litigation: the outcome of claims and litigation: and financial performance of the Groups retirement benefit statements preceded by, followed by, or that included the words schemes: and believe, expect, intend, will, plan, anticipate, goal, other factors described in the Companys filings with the aim, seeks, or similar expressions.
US Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Company cautions that any forward-looking statements in this You should read Risk Factors on pages 149 to 151 for more Annual Report and Accounts may, and often do, vary from actual information regarding factors that could cause actual results results and the differences between these statements and actual and developments to differ from those expressed or implied results can be material.
Accordingly, readers are cautioned not to by the forward-looking statements in this document.
place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only at their respective dates.
Forward-looking statements ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 159 AR6868 ICI Report 153 159 13 3 06 9:09 pm Page 160 This report is the Annual Report and Accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2005.
A summary report for the year, the Annual Review 2005, is produced as a separate document and is issued to shareholders unless they have elected to receive the full Annual Report and Accounts.
The Annual Review includes a statement from the Chairman and the Chief Executive, a summary review of activities, Summary Remuneration Report and Summary Financial Statements.
As noted on pages 39 and 155, shareholders may now elect to receive the Annual Report and Accounts and the Annual Review in electronic form by registering on ICIs corporate website www.
Words within single quotation marks within the text of this document, the letters ICI, the Roundel Device, Ablestik, Acheson, Alabastine, Alba, Alco, Aquacoral, BioCaptive, Coral, Cuprinol, Cuprinol Sprayable, Devoe, Duco, Dulux, Dulux Diamond, Elotex, Emerson & Cuming, Glidden, Hammerite, ImpaQ Taste Technology, Metalshield, National Starch, Neutrozone, Polycell, Polyfilla, Quest, Quisine, Sterishield, Uniqema, Valentine and Xyladecor are all trademarks of the ICI Group.
Other named products appearing within this document that are 2 non-ICI trademarks are: Gaultier, Miss Dior Cherie, Paludrine, Perspex Silver Shadow from Davidoff, This Old House, Tumulte from Christian Lacroix and Zirhs Corduroy.
Auditor: KPMG Audit Plc, 8 Salisbury Square, Printed in Great Britain on paper manufactured at a mill certified to London EC4Y 8BB ISO 14001 environmental management standard.
The fibres used are Registered Office: from sustainable sources and have been bleached using a combination of 20 Manchester Square, Totally Chlorine Free TCF and Elemental Chlorine Free ECF processes.
London W1U 3AN The material is recyclable and biodegradable.
Telephone: 44 0 20 7009 5000 Print: St Ives Westerham Press.
160 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 AR6868 ICI Report 153 159 13 3 06 9:09 pm Page IBC161 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 AR6868 ICI Report cvr outer 13 3 06 8:48 pm Page 1 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 leadership in formulation science leadership in formulation science
