AR6868 ICI Report 153 159 13 3 06 9:09 pm Page 156 Definitions In this document the following words and expressions shall, unless the context otherwise requires, have the following meanings: ADR American Depositary Receipt evidencing title to an ADS.
ADS American Depositary Share representing four underlying Ordinary Shares of the Company.
As reported performance Performance including the effects of currency translation differences and the impact of acquisitions and divestments.
Company Imperial Chemical Industries PLC.
Comparable performance References to comparable performance excludes the effect of currency translation differences and the impact of acquisitions and divestments on the results reported by the International Businesses.
Performance is measured on a consistent basis over two or more financial periods.
Comparable results for both 2005 and 2004 are translated at constant exchange rates, which equate to the annual average exchange rates for 2004 and exclude the results of divested businesses and the impact of acquired businesses from the relevant periods.
Depositary Citibank Shareholder Services, as depositary under the deposit agreement pursuant to which the ADRs are issued.
Derivative A financial instrument whose value changes in response to a change in a specified underlying, for which there is little or no initial net investment, and that is settled at a future date.
Directors The Directors of Imperial Chemical Industries PLC.
EBITDA ICI defines earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA as profit before special items, net finance expense, taxation, depreciation and amortisation of intangibles.
Management believes EBITDA serves as an important financial indicator, however, EBITDA should not be considered in isolation, or as an alternative to operating profit or net profit or cash flow from operating activities, in each case, determined in accordance with IFRS or US GAAP as appropriate.
Effective tax rate Effective tax rate is calculated as taxation excluding tax on special items divided by profit before tax before special items.
ESOP Employee share ownership plans, of which the principal plans are the 2004 Executive Share Option Plan, the 1994 Senior Staff Share Option Scheme, the 1994 Stock Appreciation Rights Plan, the Performance Growth Plan and the Performance Share Plan.
Fair value The amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length transaction.
Financial instrument Any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of another entity.
Hedging A strategy used in risk management whereby an entity seeks to reduce or eliminate financial risks by entering into transactions that give an offsetting risk profile.
This may or may not allow an entity to use hedge accounting, whereby special accounting rules may be used if specific hedge effectiveness and other criteria are met.
IAS IASB International Accounting Standard International Accounting Standards Board.
ICI, ICI Group or the Group Imperial Chemical Industries PLC and its subsidiary companies its consolidated subsidiaries and its proportionally consolidated joint ventures but not its associates.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
Interest cover Calculations of interest cover are based on the sum of the Groups trading profit, post-retirement benefit finance charges, the Groups share of net associated company income associates trading profit less taxation and net finance expense of associates divided by interest payable by the Group excluding share of net finance expense of associates and post-retirement benefit finance expense.
International Businesses The International Businesses comprise the Groups National Starch, Quest, Uniqema and Paints businesses.
London Stock Exchange London Stock Exchange plc.
NYSE New York Stock Exchange.
Ordinary Shares Ordinary shares of 1 each in the capital of Imperial Chemical Industries PLC.
pound Sterling, pence or p Refers to units of UK currency.
Revenue IFRS equivalent of sales and turnover.
SEC The United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
SFAS Statement of Financial Accounting Standards US.
UK or United Kingdom United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
US dollar, dollar, US$ or $ Refers to units of US currency.
USA or US or United States United States of America.
Figures in parentheses in tables and financial statements are used to represent negative numbers.
156 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Definitions AR6868 ICI Report 153 159 13 3 06 9:09 pm Page 157 Definitions used in computation of Group Financial Targets Adjusted earnings per share Net profit before special items attributable to the equity holders of the parent, divided by weighted average number of shares in issue less weighted average number of shares held by the Groups employee share plans during the period.
Comparable sales growth Sales growth compared with the prior period excluding the effects of currency translation differences and the impact of acquisitions and divestments.
Comparable trading profit growth Trading profit growth compared with the prior period excluding the effects of currency translation differences and the impact of acquisitions and divestments.
Earnings per share Net profit after special items attributable to the equity holders of the parent, divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue less the weighted average number of shares held by the Groups employee share plans during the period.
Net debt The borrowings of ICI comprising loans and short-term borrowings other than overdrafts together with related derivatives, obligations under finance leases and the liabilities associated with the forward contracts for the acquisition of own shares the extent that the contracts are out of the money less cash including overdrafts, cash equivalents and current asset investments.
Net profit before special items Net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent before special items.
Reporting segments The Reporting segments comprise the Groups National Starch, Quest, Uniqema, Paints and Regional and Industrial businesses.
Return on capital employed ROCE Group trading profit after amortisation of intangibles, before special items, after restructuring amortisation and after a tax charge for the last twelve months divided by the average of capital employed for this current period end and that of the twelve months previously, expressed as a percentage.
Notes: Cash expenditure on restructuring is capitalised in each year that expenditure occurs and is then amortised over three years starting on 1 January following the year of the expenditure.
A tax charge is applied to the Group trading profit before amortisation of intangibles and after restructuring amortisation using the Groups effective tax rate for the year 2005: 21%, 2004: 21%.
Capital employed: Net operating assets plus net operating special items.
Net operating assets: Property, plant and equipment plus goodwill on acquisitions plus operating working capital.
Goodwill on acquisitions relates to goodwill capitalised on the Group balance sheet and, therefore, excludes goodwill arising prior to 31 December 1997 largely that arising on the acquisition of the Unilever Speciality Chemical businesses which has been charged directly to reserves.
Net operating special items: For financial ratio calculation purposes only, this is defined as: Asset write downs arising on restructuring plus cash cost of restructuring before tax and after amortisation: for financial ratio purposes only, cash expenditure is capitalised in each year that expenditure occurs and is then amortised over three years starting on 1 January following the year of expenditure.
Segment assets Segment assets are those operating assets that are employed by a segment in its operating activities and that are either directly attributable to the segments or can be allocated to the segment on a reasonable basis.
Segment liabilities Segment liabilities are those operating liabilities that are employed by a segment in its operating activities and that are either directly attributable to the segments or can be allocated to the segment on a reasonable basis.
Special items Special items are those items of financial performance that should be separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of the financial performance achieved by the Group and in making projections of future results, as explained in IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
Special items includes items relating to both continuing and discontinued businesses.
Trading margin Trading profit, expressed as a percentage of sales.
Trading profit Operating profit before special items.
Definitions ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 157
