DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Centenary Scheme To encourage employees to acquire and retain a shareholding, and to mark the centenary of the founding of The Imperial Tobacco Company of Great Britain and Ireland Limited, all employees of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries employed on 10 December 2001, the date of the centenary, were invited to purchase up to 3,000 worth of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Ordinary Shares and lodge them with the Employee Benefit Trust.
Provided these shares are left in the Trust, the lodged shares will be matched on a sliding scale from 20 per cent for one years retention to a maximum of 100 per cent if they are retained for the full five years to August 2007.
There have been no changes in any Directors contingent rights since 30 September 2005.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2005 59 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Executive Directors contingent rights to shares under the Share Matching Scheme continued During the year, annual bonuses earned in 2000 2001 and lodged under the SMS for a three-year period matured in January 2005, providing matched shares for participants on a 1:1 basis.
In respect of annual bonuses earned in 2003 2004, the Executive Directors elected to invest their entire bonus in January 2005 in the form of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Ordinary Shares under the SMS.
These will be matched with additional shares, equal in number to the original shares, provided they are both left in the SMS for three years and if the Company has achieved in excess of an average of three per cent real increase in EPS per annum over the retention period.
These additional shares are shown within contingent rights above.
It is anticipated that the Executive Directors will again invest their entire bonus in February 2006 in the form of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Ordinary Shares under the SMS.
Share options The Company does not operate an executive share option scheme.
However, Executive Directors are eligible along with all employees of the Company and any participating subsidiary of the Group to participate in Imperial Tobacco Group PLCs savings-related Sharesave Plan.
Under this Plan options are granted, at a discount of up to 20 per cent to the closing mid-market price on the day prior to invitation, to participants who have contracted to save up to 250 per month over a period of three or five years.
There were no aggregate gains during the year 2004: 5,694.
2 Any option not exercised by the end of the range of exercisable dates will expire.
3 Or date of resignation from the Board if earlier.
4 No options were granted to or exercised by the Directors during the year.
There have been no changes in any Directors share options since 30 September 2005.
The Companys middle market share price at the close of business on 30 September 2005 was 16.24 and the range of the middle market price during the year was 12.25 to 16.24.
Full details of the Directors share interests are available for inspection in the Register of Directors Interests at the Companys registered office.
