DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP continued On vesting, a participant is granted a nil cost option to acquire the relevant number of shares.
The option may be exercised at any time up to the seventh anniversary of its date of grant.
There is no opportunity to re-test if the performance criterion is not achieved.
Under the LTIP rules, should Imperial Tobacco Group PLC be acquired, the performance period would come to an end on the date of acquisition.
Any outstanding awards would vest on a time pro-rata basis, subject to the achievement of the applicable performance criteria.
Performance criteria will be adjusted to ensure consistent measurement during the transition to IFRS.
Following the remuneration review in 2004, and subsequent approval by shareholders at the 2005 AGM, the Remuneration Committee has determined that annual awards equivalent to twice salary in respect of the Chief Executive, one and a half times salary for the Finance Director and once salary for other Executive Directors will be made in November 2005, with the performance criteria split into three elements as follows: First element 50 per cent of the award with a performance criterion based on EPS as described above, with 12.5 per cent of this element vesting if average real annual EPS growth equals three per cent and 100 per cent of this element vesting if average real annual EPS growth equals or exceeds 10 per cent.
Between these two points awards vest on a straight-line basis.
Second element 25 per cent of the award with a performance criterion based on TSR relative to the FTSE 100 Index as described below.
The performance criterion for the second element will be based on a sliding scale depending on TSR achieved over the period of the award.
No vesting of this element will occur unless the Companys total shareholder return ranks it in the top 50 of the companies constituting the FTSE 100 Index.
At this performance threshold 30 per cent of this element will vest.
If the return ranks the Company in the top 25 of the Index, this element will vest in full.
Between these thresholds the award will vest on a straight-line basis.
Third element 25 per cent of the award with a performance criterion based on TSR relative to a bespoke comparator group also described below.
The performance criterion for the third element will also be based on a sliding scale depending on TSR achieved over the period of the award.
No vesting of this element will occur unless the Companys TSR exceeds that of the bottom six companies constituting a bespoke comparator group comprising of 12 tobacco and alcohol companies as detailed in the table below.
At this performance threshold, 30 per cent of the third element will vest.
If the return ranks the Company in the top three of the comparator group, this element will vest in full.
Altadis S A Altria Group Inc British American Tobacco PLC Carlsberg A S Diageo PLC Gallaher Group PLC Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Interbrew SA Pernod Ricard SA Reynolds American Inc SABMiller PLC Scottish & Newcastle PLC If one of the comparator group companies is acquired prior to the granting of an award, a suitable replacement will be made.
Allied Domecq PLC, a company included in the comparator group approved at the 2005 AGM, has been acquired by Pernod Ricard SA who replace them in the comparator group.
For any corporate actions affecting a comparator company during an award period the current intention would be to mirror the actions of a passive investor, e. g. for an equity bid the new shares offered in exchange for the original company would be held for the remainder of the award period.
The TSR calculations will use share prices averaged over a period of three months to determine both the initial and closing prices rather than those ruling on a single day.
It is assumed that the cash flow of dividend payments is recognised on the date the shares are declared ex dividend.
This method is considered to give a fairer and less volatile result since improved performance has to be sustained for several weeks before it effectively impacts on the TSR calculations.
All share prices and dividend flows will be converted to sterling on the applicable date to ensure that the calculations reflect the return achievable by a UK based investor.
The TSR calculations themselves will be performed independently by Alithos Limited and approval sought from the Remuneration Committee prior to the TSR elements vesting.
There will be no opportunity to re-test if any of the performance criteria are not achieved.
Each element will operate independently and will be capable of vesting regardless of the Companys performance in respect of the other elements.
However, the Remuneration Committee may vary, but not increase, the extent to which the award vests to ensure that it only vests, and at an appropriate level, if there has been an improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Company, including the maintenance of long-term return on capital employed.
