Inchcape plc 102 Annual report and accounts 2005 Accounting policies As at 31 December 2005 Basis of preparation These Financial statements are prepared for Inchcape plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2005.
The Company is the ultimate parent entity of the Inchcape Group the Group.
Accounting convention These Financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable UK accounting standards.
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, no separate profit and loss account is presented for the Company.
In addition, the Company is not required to prepare a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements revised.
Changes in accounting policies FRS 20 Share-based Payments and FRS 21 Events After the Balance Sheet Date have been adopted with effect from 1 January 2005 and prior year comparatives have been restated accordingly.
In addition, the Company has adopted FRS 23 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates, FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Measurement, from 1 January 2005.
The adoption of these standards by the Company has had no material impact on its result or financial position and no restatement has been required.
Further, the Company is exempt from the disclosure requirements in FRS 25 as it is included in the consolidated Financial statements of the Group, which include the required disclosures.
Details of the effect of the prior year adjustments are given in note 1.
Foreign currencies Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at closing rates of exchange.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation to closing rates of exchange of intra-Group dividends, opening net assets, long term foreign currency borrowings used to finance foreign currency investments, and foreign currency borrowings and instruments that provide a hedge against net assets are also reflected as a reserve movement.
All other exchange differences are dealt with in the profit and loss account.
Investments Fixed asset investments are stated at cost, less provisions for impairment.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full without discounting based on current tax rates and law, on timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax in the future except as otherwise required by FRS 19 Deferred Tax.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation of fixed assets where there is no binding commitment to sell the asset.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation in respect of a past event, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and where the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid is deducted from shareholders funds until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in shareholders funds.
Dividends Final dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at the year end are not recognised in the Financial statements until they have been approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid.
