Inchcape plc 98 Annual report and accounts 2005 Notes to the accounts continued 33 Reconciliations of UK GAAP to IFRS continued Explanation of material adjustments to the cash flow statement The definition of cash and cash equivalents under IFRS is broader than under UK GAAP, including not only cash at bank and in hand and bank overdrafts, but also short term deposits.
The latter were treated as liquid resources under UK GAAP.
The application of IFRS has also changed the presentation of the cash flow statement which now classifies cash flows as arising under only three activities operating, investing and financing.
The following are the most significant consequent reclassifications of cash flows under IFRS: Income taxes paid are classified as operating cash flows under IFRS, but were included in a separate category of tax cash flows under UK GAAP.
Interest paid and interest received are both shown under operating activities, but were included in a separate category of returns on investments and servicing of finance cash flows under UK GAAP.
Presentation The main presentational differences between IFRS and UK GAAP are the following: Under UK GAAP, the share of joint ventures and associates revenue, operating profit, exceptional items, finance costs and tax were included within the relevant categories of the Groups income statement.
Under IFRS, the results of joint ventures and associates are presented post-tax as a single line item in the income statement.
Under UK GAAP, exceptional items that were disclosed as non-operating under the criteria set out in FRS 3 Reporting Financial Performance were charged after operating profit in the income statement.
Under IFRS, these items have been charged before arriving at operating profit.
Under IFRS all assets and liabilities on the balance sheet are disclosed as being either current or non-current in nature.
Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2005 99 Five year record The information presented in the table below is prepared in accordance with IFRS for 2004 and 2005.
However 2001, 2002 and 2003 are prepared in accordance with the UK GAAP standards effective as at 31 December 2004, and have not been restated other than to be consistent with the IFRS format as explained in the Presentation section of note 33.
The main adjustments which would be required to make the information in 2001, 2002 and 2003 comply with IFRS would be similar to those noted in the adjustments made on the transition to IFRS as set out in note 33.
