Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the Year Ended 31 December 2005 26 Inventories 2005 2004 000 000 Raw materials 1,778 1,266 Work in progress 3,555 5,744 Finished goods and goods for resale 25,805 20,525 31,138 27,535 27 Financial Instruments The Groups activities expose it mainly to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates.
The Groups policy is to hedge these exposures as explained further below using primarily interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and spot and forward foreign exchange contracts.
Treasury Policy The Board sets the Groups treasury policy to ensure that it has adequate financial resources to develop the Groups businesses and to manage the currency and interest risks to which the Group is exposed.
The Group mainly uses foreign exchange forward and spot contracts and interest rate swap contracts to hedge these exposures.
All external hedging is performed by the Group Treasury Function.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Where a derivative in whole or in part cannot be designated in an effective hedge relationship any gain or loss arising on the undesignated portion of the derivative is immediately recognised in the Income Statement.
Those derivative financial instruments or portions thereof that are not designated in a hedge relationship are classified as held for trading.
Group Treasury acts as a service centre operating under the clearly defined regulation of the Board.
The Group monitors the distribution of its cash assets, borrowings and facilities so as to control exposure to the relative performance of any particular territory, currency or institution.
Funding and Cash Management The Group primarily borrows at short-term variable rates under its multi-currency loan facilities.
These borrowings are guaranteed on the results of certain subsidiary companies.
In connection with the acquisition of IIR, in May 2005 the Group arranged for a new five year loan agreement, becoming effective upon the acquisition of IIR in July 2005 and comprising three facilities: A Term loans of GBP 250 million and USD 500 million: B Multi-currency revolving facilities of GBP 400 million: and C Equity bridge facility of GBP 300 million.
The previously existing loan facility was cancelled at the same time.
Facility C was repaid and cancelled in July 2005 following the Rights Issue.
In 2001, the Group raised USD 50 million on the US private placement market.
The 7.35% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes in respect of the Private Placement are due in seven equal annual instalments from August 2005 to August 2011.
Operationally, cash pooling arrangements have been organised in GBP, EUR, USD to minimise interest payable on net overdrafts and or maximise interest receivable on net surplus balances.
Cash Flows Historically and for the foreseeable future the Group has been and is expected to continue to be in a net borrowing position.
The Groups policy is to fulfil its borrowing requirements by borrowing in the currencies in which it operates, principally GBP, USD and EUR: thereby providing a natural hedge against projected future surplus USD and EUR cash inflows as well as spreading the Groups interest rate profile across a number of currencies.
In addition, GBP denominated borrowings serve to reduce the exposure of the debt to EBITDA banking covenant to movements in exchange rates in respect of currency denominated debt.
Therefore the Group seeks to maintain GBP denominated borrowings in the range of 25% to 50% of total borrowings, including where necessary, the selling of USD and EUR for GBP on a regular basis.
In addition, if a significant foreign currency denominated future transaction or cash flow is projected, then the Group may utilise forward foreign exchange contracts to help hedge the associated risk.
Foreign Currency Risk Allied to the Groups above policy on the hedging of surplus foreign currency cash inflows, the Group will usually seek to finance its net investment in its principal overseas subsidiaries by borrowing in those subsidiaries functional currencies, primarily EUR and USD.
This policy has the effect of protecting the Groups consolidated balance sheet from movements in those currencies to the extent that the associated net assets exceed the net foreign currency borrowings.
Interest Rate Risk The Group seeks to minimise its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates by using interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges to hedge up to 90% of forecast interest payments over a period of up to five years, based on forecast net debt levels by currency during that period.
This policy provides a level of certainty of future interest costs by swapping floating to fixed interest payments which in turn assists the predictability of achieving interest based loan covenants.
60 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
