Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the Year Ended 31 December 2005 1 General Information Informa plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The Company name was changed following a special resolution from T&F Informa plc on 18 August 2005.
The address of the registered office is given on page 19.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in Note 7 and in the Directors Report on pages 20 to 21.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling GBP because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 3.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but have not yet come into effect: IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures: and the related amendment to IAS 1 on capital disclosures IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease IFRIS 5 Right to Interests Arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group except for additional disclosures on capital and financial instruments when the relevant standards come into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007.
The additional disclosures under IFRS 7 include stating the carrying amount of financial assets and liabilities under each of the classifications in IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: an analysis of the age for financial assets that are either past due or impaired: a reconciliation of changes in carrying amounts during a period where impairment is recorded through an allowance account as opposed to a direct reduction to the carrying amount of the financial asset: and additional requirements on providing sensitivity analysis on market risks and how changes in these risks would have impacted profit or loss and equity in the period.
2 Basis of Preparation On 1 January 2005, Informa plc adopted International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Informa plc has elected to adopt the amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits, issued in December 2004, in advance of their effective date of 1 January 2006 and is presenting actuarial gains and losses arising on defined benefit pension schemes in the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
The comparative figures for the financial year ended 31 December 2004 have been restated from accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom UK GAAP to IFRS.
Reconciliations between UK GAAP and IFRS equity as at 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2004 and a reconciliation of profit and loss for the year ended 31 December 2004 are included in Note 42.
The IFRS 1 exemptions adopted by the Group along with the key impact analysis between UK GAAP and IFRS on the financial year ended 31 December 2004 are included within the Regulatory Announcement REG-T&F Informa plc IFRS Statement released on 13 June 2005.
The Group adopted IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and Disclosure and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement on 1 January 2005.
The impact on the opening balance sheet as shown in the Regulatory Announcement REG-T&F Informa plc IFRS Statement made on 13 June 2005 is set out in Note 4.
The Group believes that adjusted operating profit Note 9 and adjusted earnings per share Note 17 provide additional useful information on underlying trends to shareholders.
These measures are used for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation arrangements for employees.
The term adjusted is not a defined term under IFRS and may not therefore be comparable with similarly titled profit measurements reported by other companies.
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to IFRS measurements of profit.
The principal adjustments made are in respect of: Restructuring costs the costs incurred by the Group in reorganising and integrating businesses, notably in relation to acquisitions and closures, are classified as restructuring: Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible fixed assets the Group continues to amortise these intangible fixed assets and test for impairment of those assets but does not see these charges as integral to underlying trading: Non-trading items for example gains and losses on disposal of fixed assets: Bank facility fees written off capitalised facility fees are amortised over the loan periods but where syndicated loan facilities have been terminated early and new facilities undertaken on funding major acquisitions, the unamortised fees are immediately expensed.
This accelerated expense is not viewed as being part of operating activities and is thus excluded from the adjusted results: and Discontinuing activities where the Group is in the process of exiting a major geographical location or line of business, having announced the decision but still being in the process of winding down trade.
The Groups operations are split into three broad market sectors of Academic & Scientific, Professional, and Commercial.
These divisions are further analysed in to more specific segments which bring together products in comparable market areas under common business heads.
This is how the Groups operational management is structured and its results are reviewed and thus form the primary reporting segments Note 7.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 39
