Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the Year Ended 31 December 2005 3 Accounting Policies Basis of Accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain properties and financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies are adopted are set out below.
Refer to the reconciliations in Note 42, the Regulatory Announcement REG-T&F Informa plc IFRS Statement made on 13 June 2005 and the Interim Report released on 22 September 2005 for the impacts of the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS.
Basis of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the accounts of the Company and all of its subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are included in the consolidated financial statements from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of acquired subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by other members of the Group.
Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity and consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination plus their share of changes in equity since that date.
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control, which is when the strategic and operating policy decisions require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The arrangements the Group has entered into involve the establishment of a separate entity in which each venturer has an interest.
The Group reports its interests using proportionate consolidation and combines its share of the assets, liabilities, income and expense with the equivalent items in the consolidated financial statements on a line-by-line basis.
Revenue Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes, and provisions for returns and cancellations.
Subscription income is deferred and recognised over the term of the subscription.
Conference income is deferred and recognised when the conference is held.
Income from managed events represents fees earned and is recognised when the event is held.
Consulting and training revenues are recognised as services are delivered.
Where consultancy services are provided over a period of time, revenue is recognised using the stage of completion method when the outcome of the contract can be measured reliably.
The stage to completion is determined with regard to key milestones in the contract being attained and the percentage of services performed under the contract as a percentage of the total services to be performed.
Royalties revenue is recognised as the franchisee recognises their revenue.
Interest Income Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Dividend Income Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Business Combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of acquisition is measured at the aggregate of fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for resale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary companies and businesses is calculated as the excess of purchase consideration over the fair value of net identifiable assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition.
It is recognised as an asset at cost, assessed for impairment at least annually and subsequently measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Income Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combination.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently when there is an indication that it may be impaired.
Where an impairment test is performed a discounted cash flow analysis is carried out based on the cash flows of the cash-generating unit compared with the carrying value of that goodwill.
Management estimate the discount rates as the risk affected cost of capital for the particular cash-generating units.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Upon disposal the attributable carrying value of goodwill is included in the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal.
40 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 3 Accounting Policies continued Intangible Assets Intangible assets are initially measured at cost.
For business combinations, cost is calculated based on the Groups valuation methodology, using discounted cash flows.
These assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight-line basis, which are as follows: Book lists 20 years Journal titles 20 to 40 years Database content and intellectual property Four to ten years Large scale events and exhibitions Eight to ten years Software which is not integral to a related item of hardware is included in intangible assets.
Capitalised internal-use software costs include external direct costs of materials and services consumed in developing or obtaining the software, and payroll and payroll-related costs for employees who are directly associated with, and who devote substantial time to, the project.
Capitalisation of these costs ceases no later than the point at which the project is substantially complete and ready for its internal purpose.
These costs are amortised over their expected useful lives which are deemed to be three to five years.
The expected useful lives of intangible assets are reviewed annually.
Property and Equipment Property and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of tangible fixed assets on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
The rates of depreciation are as follows: Freehold property 50 years Leasehold properties and improvements Over life of the lease Equipment, fixtures and fittings Three to 15 years The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the Income Statement.
Available For Sale Investments Available for sale investments are held at fair value where movements are taken through equity.
Non-Current Assets Classified as Held For Sale Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Inventory Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and expenses incurred in bringing the inventory to its present location and condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less marketing and distribution costs expected to be incurred.
Foreign Currencies Transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the Balance Sheet date are retranslated at the rates ruling at that date.
These translation differences are disclosed in the Income Statement.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the Income Statement for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group enters into forward contracts and options see below for details of the Groups accounting policies in respect of such derivative financial instruments.
The balance sheets of foreign subsidiaries are translated into pounds sterling at the closing rates of exchange.
The results are translated at an average rate, recalculated for each month between that months closing rate and the equivalent for the preceding month.
Foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of opening net investments in foreign subsidiaries at the closing rate are taken directly to the hedging and translation reserve.
In addition, foreign exchange differences arising from retranslation of the foreign subsidiaries results from average rate to closing rate are also taken directly to the Groups hedging and translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised in the Income Statement in the financial year in which the operations are Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 41 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the Year Ended 31 December 2005 3 Accounting Policies continued disposed of.
The translation movement on matched long-term foreign currency borrowings, qualifying as hedged under IAS 39, are also taken directly to the hedging and translation reserve.
Leasing Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are capitalised at their fair value on the inception of the lease and depreciated over the shorter of the period of the lease and the estimated useful economic lives of the assets.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the Balance Sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Finance charges are allocated over the period of the lease in proportion to the capital amount outstanding and are charged to the Income Statement.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the Income Statement in equal annual amounts over the lease term.
Rental income from sub-leasing property space is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease and is matched with the corresponding payments made under the head lease.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax nor accounting profit.
Deferred tax is calculated for all business combinations from the transition date of 31 March 2004 in respect of intangible assets and properties.
A deferred tax liability is recognised to the extent that the fair value of the assets for accounting purposes exceeds the value of those assets for tax purposes and will form part of the associated goodwill on acquisition.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, including interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Pension Costs Certain Group companies operate defined contribution pension schemes for employees.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from the individual companies.
The pension cost charges associated with these schemes represent contributions payable and are charged as an expense when they fall due.
The Group also operates funded defined benefit schemes for employees.
The cost of providing these benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each Balance Sheet date.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent the benefits are vested, and otherwise are amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The current service cost and the recognised element of any past service cost are presented within operating profit.
The interest cost arising on the pension liability less the interest return on the plan assets is presented within finance costs.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, outside of the Income Statement and in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
The expected return on plan assets reflects the estimate made by management of the long-term yields that will arise from the specific assets held within the pension plan.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Balance Sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost and the fair value of any relevant scheme assets.
42 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 3 Accounting Policies continued Share Based Payments The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share based Payment.
In accordance with transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested at 1 January 2005.
The Group issues equity settled share based payments to certain employees.
A fair value for the equity settled share awards is measured at the date of grant.
The fair value of the share options and Long-Term Incentive Plan is measured using the Binomial model of valuation, which is considered to be the most appropriate valuation technique.
The valuation takes into account factors such as non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
To assign a fair value to share awards granted under the Share Matching Plan where the proportion of the award released is dependent on the level of total shareholder return the Monte Carlo Simulation methodology is considered the most appropriate.
An expense is recognised to spread the fair value of each award over the vesting period on a straight-line basis, after allowing for an estimate of the share awards that will actually vest.
The estimate of vesting is reviewed annually, with any impact on the cumulative charge being recognised immediately.
Financial Instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade Receivables Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in profit or loss when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
The allowance recognised is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
Investments Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
Investments are classified as either held for trading or available for sale, and are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value.
Fair values are based on market values for listed investments and discounted future cash flows for non-listed investments.
Where securities are held for trading purposes, gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are included in the Income Statement for the period.
For available for sale investments, gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the Income Statement for the period.
Impairment losses recognised in the Income Statement for equity investments classified as available for sale are not subsequently reversed through the Income Statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the Income Statement for debt instruments classified as available for sale are subsequently reversed if an increase in the fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event occurring after the recognition of the impairment loss.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible with a maturity of three months or less to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Financial Liabilities and Equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Bank Borrowings Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the Income Statement using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade Payables Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
Equity Instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 43
