Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the Year Ended 31 December 2005 3 Accounting Policies continued Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedge Accounting The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The derivative instruments utilised by the Group to hedge these exposures are interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and spot and forward foreign exchange contracts.
The Group does not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes.
The Board sets the Groups treasury policy to ensure that it has adequate financial resources to develop the Groups businesses and to manage the currency and interest risks to which the Group is exposed.
All external hedging is performed by the Group Treasury Function.
Group Treasury acts as a service centre operating under the clearly defined regulation of the Board.
The Group monitors the distribution of its cash assets, borrowings and facilities so as to control exposure to the relative performance of any particular territory, currency or institution.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecasted transaction results in the recognition of an asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the Income Statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the Income Statement as they arise.
Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate swaps are recognised as adjustments to interest expense over the period of the contracts.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the Income Statement for the period.
Finance Costs Finance costs of debts are capitalised against the debt value on first drawdown of the debt and are recognised in the Income Statement at a constant rate over the life of the debt.
ESOP Trust Shares Own shares deducted in arriving at shareholders funds represent the cost of the Companys ordinary shares acquired by the Employee Share Option Plan ESOP trusts in connection within certain of the Groups employee share schemes.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the Balance Sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Restructuring provisions are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been communicated to the affected parties.
4 IAS 32 and IAS 39 The Group adopted IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and Disclosure and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement from 1 January 2005.
In the preparation of its financial statements in accordance with IFRS for the year ended 31 December 2004, the Group continued to apply the hedge accounting rules of UK GAAP, taking advantage of the exemption available within IFRS 1 First-Time Adoption of IFRS.
The Group is required to recognise transitional adjustments in accounting for its financial instruments in accordance with the measurement requirements of IAS 39 at 1 January 2005.
The financial impact of the adoption is detailed in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
IFRS 1 requires the Group to recognise various transitional adjustments to account for those hedging relationships at 1 January 2005.
The accounting for those hedging relationships at transition depends on the nature of the hedged item and the hedged risk.
The Groups interest rate swaps and forward exchange contracts and similar instruments that were fair value hedges of interest and foreign exchange risk on borrowings under UK GAAP were not previously accounted for on the Balance Sheet at their full fair value.
In these cases, the difference between the derivatives fair value and its previously reported carrying value has been recognised directly in opening equity hedging and translation reserve.
This has the effect of increasing trade and other receivables prepayments by 1,503,000 and increasing trade and other payables accruals by 2,451,000.
Future adjustments to hedged borrowings will be recognised in earnings on an amortised basis.
44 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
