Notes to the Company Financial Statements For the Year Ended 31 December 2005 1 Accounting Policies Basis of Accounting The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and law.
The Directors Report, Corporate Governance Statement and Directors Remuneration Report disclosures are included in the Group Annual Report of Informa plc.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year, with the exception of the implementation of FRS 20 Share-Based Payment, FRS 21 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Measurement, the impact of which is detailed in Notes 10, 11 and 12.
The comparative information has been disclosed in accordance with FRS 13 Derivatives and other financial investments: Disclosure.
Interest Income Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Tangible Fixed Assets Tangible fixed assets are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of tangible fixed assets in equal instalments over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
The rates of depreciation are as follows: Leasehold properties and improvements Over life of the lease Equipment, fixtures and fittings 3 to 15 years The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
Share Based Payments The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 20 Share Based Payment.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, FRS 20 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested at 1 January 2005.
The Company issues equity settled share based payments to certain employees.
A fair value for the equity settled share awards is measured at the date of grant.
The fair value is measured using the Binomial model of valuation, which is considered to be the most appropriate valuation technique.
The valuation takes into account factors such as non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
To assign a fair value to share awards granted under the Share Matching Plan where the proportion of the award released is dependent on the level of total shareholder return the Monte Carlo Simulation methodology is considered the most appropriate.
An expense is recognised to spread the fair value of each award over the vesting period on a straight line basis, after allowing for an estimate of the share awards that will actually vest.
The estimate of vesting is reviewed annually, with any impact on the cumulative charge being recognised immediately.
Investments Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less provision for any impairment in value.
Investments held by the Company in subsidiaries and joint ventures denominated in foreign currencies are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Financial Instruments The Company has adopted FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Measurement with effect from 1 January 2005.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Companys balance sheet when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Investments Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible with a maturity of three months or less to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 87
