Notes to the Company Financial Statements For the Year Ended 31 December 2005 1 Accounting Policies Basis of Accounting The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and law.
The Directors Report, Corporate Governance Statement and Directors Remuneration Report disclosures are included in the Group Annual Report of Informa plc.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year, with the exception of the implementation of FRS 20 Share-Based Payment, FRS 21 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Measurement, the impact of which is detailed in Notes 10, 11 and 12.
The comparative information has been disclosed in accordance with FRS 13 Derivatives and other financial investments: Disclosure.
Interest Income Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Tangible Fixed Assets Tangible fixed assets are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of tangible fixed assets in equal instalments over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
The rates of depreciation are as follows: Leasehold properties and improvements Over life of the lease Equipment, fixtures and fittings 3 to 15 years The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
Share Based Payments The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 20 Share Based Payment.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, FRS 20 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested at 1 January 2005.
The Company issues equity settled share based payments to certain employees.
A fair value for the equity settled share awards is measured at the date of grant.
The fair value is measured using the Binomial model of valuation, which is considered to be the most appropriate valuation technique.
The valuation takes into account factors such as non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
To assign a fair value to share awards granted under the Share Matching Plan where the proportion of the award released is dependent on the level of total shareholder return the Monte Carlo Simulation methodology is considered the most appropriate.
An expense is recognised to spread the fair value of each award over the vesting period on a straight line basis, after allowing for an estimate of the share awards that will actually vest.
The estimate of vesting is reviewed annually, with any impact on the cumulative charge being recognised immediately.
Investments Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less provision for any impairment in value.
Investments held by the Company in subsidiaries and joint ventures denominated in foreign currencies are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Financial Instruments The Company has adopted FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Measurement with effect from 1 January 2005.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Companys balance sheet when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Investments Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible with a maturity of three months or less to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 87 Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued For the Year Ended 31 December 2005 1 Accounting Policies continued Financial Liabilities and Equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Bank Borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in the Profit and Loss Account using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Equity Instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedge Accounting The Companys holding activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The derivative instruments utilised by the Company to hedge these exposures are interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and spot and forward foreign exchange contracts.
The Company does not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes.
The Board set the Companys treasury policy to ensure that it has adequate financial resources to develop the Companys businesses and to manage the currency and interest risks to which the Company is exposed.
All external hedging is performed by the Company Treasury Function.
Company Treasury acts as a service centre operating under the clearly defined regulation of the Board.
The Company monitors the distribution of its cash assets, borrowings and facilities so as to control exposure to the relative performance of any particular territory, currency or institution.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Profit and Loss Account.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecasted transaction results in the recognition of an asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account in the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account as they arise.
Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate swaps are recognised as adjustments to interest expense over the period of the contracts.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedge instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the Profit and Loss Account for the year.
Finance Costs Finance costs of debts are capitalised against the debt value on first drawdown of the debt and are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account at a constant rate over the life of the debt.
ESOP Trust Shares Own shares deducted in arriving at shareholders funds represent the cost of the Companys ordinary shares acquired by the Employee Share Option Plan ESOP trusts in connection with certain of the Companys employee share schemes.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Company will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the Balance Sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Current tax Current tax, including UK corporation tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the Balance Sheet date where the transactions or events that give rise to an obligation to pay more or less tax in the future have occured by the Balance Sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only when it is considered more likely than not that it will be recovered.
88 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
