83 UNiqUely placed Notes to the Financial Statements Basis of accounting the 2005 and 2004 financial statements are prepared on the basis of uK GAAp, as the company itself has not converted to IFRs.
the accounting policies, where relevant to the company, are consistent with those of the consolidated Group as set out in note 2 to the consolidated financial accounts.
the principal accounting policies under uK GAAp are as follows: Profit and loss account the company has taken advantage of the exemption available under section 230 of companies Act 1985 and has not presented a profit and loss account.
the profit for the year ended 31 december 2005 was us$0.1 million 2004: us$ nil.
Auditors remuneration during the year, the company paid its external auditors us$0.1 million for statutory audit services 2004: us$0.1 million.
In addition, fees of us$2.6 million were paid to  llp who are the companys auditors in connection with the Ipo, which have been offset against share premium.
Employee costs and Directors remuneration the company has no employees, excluding the executive directors 2004: nil.
Full details of directors remuneration and directors share options are given in the directors Remuneration Report.
Foreign currency translation the functional and reporting currency of the company is the u. s. dollar as the majority of operational transactions are denominated in u. s. dollars.
transactions not denominated in u. s. dollars during the accounting period have been translated into u. s. dollars at an average hedged rate of exchange.
Fixed assets denominated in currencies other than the u. s. dollar have been translated at the spot rates of exchange ruling at the dates of acquisition.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u. s. dollar for which the company has purchased forward exchange contracts have been translated at the average hedged rates of exchange contained in those contracts.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u. s. dollar for which the company has not purchased forward exchange contracts including the subordinated preference certificates, are translated at year end rates.
differences on exchange are dealt with in the profit and loss account.
the exchange rate between us dollars and pounds sterling as at 31 december 2005 was us$1.72 1.00 2004: us$1.92 1.00.
Liquid resources the company defines liquid resources as short-term deposits and current asset investments capable of being converted into cash without curtailing or disrupting the business.
Investments Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated in the balance sheet at cost less amounts written-off.
Employee share options the company adopted FRs 20 share-based payment during 2004. the accounting policy is identical to that applied in the consolidated financial statements as set out in note 2 and 25, with the exception that shares issued by the company to employees of its subsidiaries for which no consideration is received are treated as an increase in the companys investment in those subsidiaries.
Financial instruments the company adopted FRs 25 Financial Instruments: disclosure and presentation and FRs 26 Financial Instruments: Measurement effective 1 January 2005. the adoptions of these standards have no material effect to the company financial statements.
Dividends details of dividends paid in the year and proposed after the year-end, are given in note 13 to the consolidated financial statements.
there is no difference between the disclosures given in the consolidated financial statements and those required under uK GAAp.
Subsequent events details of subsequent events are given in note 34 to the consolidated financial statements.
Share capital details of the companys authorised and issued share capital and of movements in the year are given in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
INMARSAT PLC AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2005
