88 88 Int InterContinent erContinental Hot al Hotels Gr els Group 2005 oup 2005 glossary ADJUSTED excluding the effect of special items, MANAGEMENT CONTRACT a contract to operate a hotel on behalf of the gain loss on disposal of assets and any hotel owner.
MARKET CAPITALISATION the value attributed to a listed company by AVERAGE DAILY RATE room revenue divided by the number of room multiplying its share price by the number of nights sold.
Also known as average room rate.
BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE profit available for IHG equity holders divided MIDSCALE HOTEL a hotel in the three four star category, by the weighted average number of ordinary e. g. Holiday Inn, Holiday Inn Express.
shares in issue during the year.
NET DEBT borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE cash expended on purchases of property, OCCUPANCY RATE rooms occupied by hotel guests, expressed plant and equipment and purchases of as a percentage of rooms that are available.
associates and other financial assets.
OPERATING MARGIN operating profit before other operating CASH-GENERATING UNIT a portfolio of similar assets that are subject income and expenses expressed as a to the same economic and commercial percentage of revenue.
PIPELINE signed executed agreements, including COMPARABLE REVPAR a comparison for a grouping of hotels that franchises and management contracts, for have traded in all months in both financial hotels which will enter the InterContinental years being compared.
Principally excludes Hotels system at a future date.
new hotels, hotels closed for major refurbishment and hotels sold in either REVENUE PER room revenue divided by the number of of the two years.
AVAILABLE ROOM room nights that are available can be REVPAR mathematically derived from occupancy CONTINGENT LIABILITY a liability that is contingent upon the rate multiplied by average daily rate.
occurrence of one or more uncertain future events.
ROOM COUNT number of rooms owned, managed or franchised by InterContinental Hotels.
CONTINUING OPERATIONS operations not classified as discontinued and including acquisitions made during the year.
ROOM REVENUE revenue generated from the sale of room nights.
CURRENCY SWAP an exchange of a deposit and a borrowing, each denominated in a different currency, ROYALTY RATE the percentage of room revenue that a for an agreed period of time.
franchisee pays to the brand owner for use of the brand name.
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS operations that have been sold and assets classified as held for sale when the results SPECIAL ITEMS items which are disclosed separately relate to a separate line of business, because of their size or incidence.
geographical area of operations, or where SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKING a company in which the Group holds an there is a co-ordinated plan to dispose of equity stake and over which it exercises a separate line of business or geographical control.
SYSTEM SIZE the number of hotels rooms owned, EXTENDED-STAY HOTEL a hotel designed for guests staying for managed or franchised by InterContinental periods of time longer than a few nights and Hotels.
tending to have a higher proportion of suites than normal hotels, e. g. Staybridge Suites, TOTAL SHAREHOLDER the theoretical growth in value of a Candlewood Suites.
RETURN TSR shareholding over a period, by reference to the beginning and ending share price, and FRANCHISEE operator who uses a brand under assuming that gross dividends, including licence from the brand owner special dividends, are reinvested to purchase e. g. InterContinental Hotels.
additional units of the equity.
FRANCHISOR brand owner e. g. InterContinental Hotels UPSCALE HOTEL a four five star full-service hotel who licenses brands for use by other characterised by superior service, operators.
e. g. InterContinental, Crowne Plaza.
GEARING net debt expressed as a percentage of UK GAAP United Kingdom generally accepted shareholders equity.
GOODWILL the difference between the consideration US GAAP accounting principles generally accepted given for a business and the total of the in the United States.
values of the separable assets and liabilities comprising that business.
WEIGHTED AVERAGE the average of the monthly exchange EXCHANGE RATE rates, weighted by reference to monthly HEDGING the reduction of risk, normally in relation to operating profit.
foreign currency or interest rate movements, by making offsetting commitments.
WORKING CAPITAL the sum of inventories, receivables and payables of a trading nature, excluding HOLIDEX FEES charges to hotels under management and financing items such as corporate taxation.
franchise agreements for the use of Holidex, IHGs proprietory reservation system.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
INTEREST RATE SWAP an agreement to exchange fixed for floating interest rate streams or vice versa on a notional principal.
These holdings account for 87.4% of total issued share capital.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS expressed in, or implied by, such forward-looking statements, including, but not Both the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 and the limited to: the effect of political and economic developments: the risks involved Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 contain certain forward-looking with the Groups reliance on the reputation of its brands and protection of statements as defined under US legislation Section 21E of the Securities intellectual property rights: the risks relating to identifying, securing and Exchange Act of 1934 with respect to the financial condition, results of retaining management and franchise agreements: the ability to recruit and operations and business of InterContinental Hotels Group and certain plans and retain key personnel: the risks involved with the Groups reliance on technologies objectives of the Board of Directors of InterContinental Hotels Group with and systems and with developing and employing new technologies and systems: respect thereto.
Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements the Groups ability to maintain adequate insurance: the future balance between made in the Chairmans Statement and the Chief Executives Review.
These supply and demand for the Groups hotels: events that adversely impact forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate domestic or international travel, including terrorist incidents and epidemics such only to historical or current facts.
Forward-looking statements often use words as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome SARS : increased use of intermediary such as anticipate, target, expect, estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe, reservation channels: the lack of selected acquisition opportunities or the risks or other words of similar meaning.
These statements are based on assumptions of litigation: risks associated with the Groups ability to borrow and satisfy debt and assessments made by InterContinental Hotels Groups management in light covenants: compliance with data privacy regulations: and risks associated with of their experience and their perception of historical trends, current conditions, funding the defined benefits under its pension schemes.
expected future developments and other factors they believe to be appropriate.
The main factors that could affect the business and financial results are By their nature, forward-looking statements are inherently predictive, described in the Operating and Financial Review of the Annual Report and speculative and involve risk and uncertainty.
There are a number of factors that Financial Statements 2005 and also in any Annual Report of InterContinental could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those Hotels Group PLC on Form 20-F for 2005 and for any subsequent year.
Design and production Corporate Edge www.
com Photography VisualMedia Print Royle Corporate Print At least 30% of the fibre used in making this paper comes from well-managed forests independently certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council, and 30% is from post-consumer recycled waste paper INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS GROUP PLC 67 Alma Road, Windsor, Berkshire SL4 3HD Telephone 44 0 1753 410 100 Fax 44 0 1753 410 101 www.
com time to relax... Holiday Inn Phi Phi Island, Thailand make a booking at www.
