Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 83 iv The Group has elected to apply set out below.
These have been applied Notes to the consolidated IFRS 2 Share-based Payments to consistently in dealing with items which financial statements equity instruments that were granted are considered material in relation to the FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2005 on or after 7 November 2002.
Group's financial statements, with the 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES exception of those accounting policies v The Group has elected to measure the relating to IAS 32 and IAS 39 on financial a General information property, plant and equipment of its US instruments.
This is a result of the Groups International Power plc the Company operations at the date of transition to decision to adopt the IFRS 1 exemption and is a public limited company incorporated and IFRSs at its fair value and use that fair not restate comparatives for IAS 32 and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The value as its deemed cost at that date.
These accounting policies are address of its registered office is disclosed on vi The Group has taken the exemption from denoted with an asterisk and have only been the last page of this Annual Report.
The the requirement to restate comparative applied from 1 January 2005 and not to the consolidated financial statements of the information for IAS 32 Financial 2004 comparatives.
The accounting policies Company for the year ended 31 December Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation under UK GAAP applied to financial 2005 comprise the Company and its and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: instruments in 2004 are also included in this subsidiaries together referred to as the Recognition and Measurement in note and denoted with double asterisks.
Group and the Groups interest in joint accordance with IFRS 1 and has applied ventures and associates.
The parent company A full list of the UK GAAP accounting these standards prospectively from 1 financial statements present information policies is provided in the Groups financial January 2005 with no restatement of about the Company as a separate entity and statements for the year ended 31 December comparatives.
As a consequence, the not about its Group.
Reconciliations of the income Group has continued to apply UK GAAP of the Group are described in note 2. statement for the year ended 31 December in respect of financial instruments for the 2004 and the balance sheet and total equity comparative period presented.
The b Statement of compliance at 31 December 2004 from UK GAAP to impact of adopting IAS 32 and IAS 39 at European Union EU law IAS Regulation IFRS are included in note 42, together with 1 January 2005 is disclosed in note 42.
EC 1606 2002 requires that the narrative describing the key GAAP consolidated financial statements of the differences applicable to the Group.
d Adopted IFRS not yet applied Group, for the year ended 31 December A reconciliation of the balance sheet at The following Adopted IFRSs were available 2005, be prepared in accordance with 31 December 2004 to the balance sheet for early application but have not been applied International Financial Reporting Standards at 1 January 2005 to reflect the adoption by the Group in these financial statements.
IFRSs issued by the International of IAS 32 and IAS 39 is also included in Accounting Standards Board as adopted IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures this note, along with explanations of key by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
These annual applicable for years commencing on or after differences.
financial statements of the Group have been 1 January 2007.
The application of IFRS 7 in The preparation of the consolidated financial prepared in accordance with Adopted IFRSs.
2005 would not have affected the results or statements in conformity with Adopted IFRSs net assets as the standard is concerned only The Company has elected to prepare its requires management to make judgements, with disclosure.
The Group plans to adopt it parent company financial statements in estimates and assumptions that affect the in 2007. accordance with UK GAAP.
The parent application of policies and reported amounts company financial statements are presented The Group has not adopted amendments of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
on pages 132 to 138. to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 in relation to financial The estimates and associated assumptions are guarantee contracts which will apply for based on historical experience and various c Transitional arrangements periods commencing on or after 1 January other factors that are believed to be On transition to IFRS, an entity is required 2006. reasonable under the circumstances, the to apply IFRS retrospectively, except where results of which form the basis of making the Where the Group enters into financial an exemption is available for adoption judgements about carrying amounts of assets guarantee contracts to guarantee the under IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of and liabilities that are not readily apparent indebtedness of other companies within its International Financial Reporting Standards.
Actual results may differ group, the Group considers these to be The impact of the transition from UK GAAP from these estimates.
insurance arrangements, and accounts for to Adopted IFRSs is explained in note 42. them as such.
In this respect, the Group The estimates and underlying assumptions The following is a summary of the key treats the guarantee contract as a are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions IFRS 1 elections made by the Group: contingent liability until such time as it to accounting estimates are recognised in i The Group has elected to apply the becomes probable that the Group will be the period in which the estimates are revised IFRS 1 exemption, in relation to required to make a payment under the if the revision affects only that period, or in business combinations, to apply guarantee.
the period of the revision and future periods IFRS 3 Business Combinations if the revision affects both current and future The Group does not expect the prospectively from 1 January 2004. periods.
Judgements and estimates made by amendments to have any impact on the As a result, the carrying amount management that have a significant effect on financial statements for the period of goodwill under UK GAAP at the consolidated financial statements are commencing 1 January 2006.
31 December 2003 is the deemed discussed in note 41. cost of goodwill at 1 January 2004 e Basis of preparation for Adopted IFRS purposes.
f Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements The consolidated financial statements ii The Group has elected to adopt the have been prepared on the historical cost incorporate the financial statements of the IFRS 1 option which permits the basis, except for certain derivative financial Company and entities controlled by the cumulative foreign currency translation instruments, financial instruments held for Company its subsidiaries up to reserve to be deemed zero at 1 January trading, financial instruments classified as 31 December each year.
Control is achieved 2004. available for sale, which are carried at where the Company has the power to govern fair value, and the property, plant and iii With respect to pension schemes the the financial and operating policies of an equipment of the Groups US operations at Group has elected to recognise the investee entity so as to obtain benefits from 1 January 2004 which were held at deemed schemes surpluses and deficits in its activities.
In assessing control, the potential cost, being fair value on adoption of IFRS.
full as at 1 January 2004, with a voting rights that are currently exercisable or corresponding adjustment to reserves.
The principal accounting policies adopted are convertible are taken into account.
