36 International Power Annual Report 2005 Financial position and resources International Power Opatovice, Czech Republic Liquidity Free cash flow increased by Free cash flow for the year ended 31 December 2005 was 174% to 285 million 285 million, an increase of 181 million compared to 2004.
This increase reflects the underlying profitability of the assets acquired in 2004 and 2005 together with improving margins Net assets increased by in the UK and US merchant markets.
317 million to 2,375 million Dividends from joint ventures and associates of 92 million are up 23 million from 2004, reflecting the portfolio expansion.
Net debt has increased by Capital expenditure for growth projects at 188 million 234 million to 2,979 million principally comprises of spend on the Tihama project in Saudi Arabia, together with the Hazelwood West Field mine extension and the completion of the Canunda wind farm project.
Debt capitalisation reduced to 56% Acquisitions of 571 million in 2005 mainly relates to Saltend, together with the retail partnership with EnergyAustralia and Gearing now at 125% from 133% some final spend relating to the IPM acquisition.
Disposals of 211 million relate to the sale of Tri Energy, Italian Wind and Valley Power, together with the sale of 20% of Turbogs relating to EdP pre-emption rights.
Foreign exchange and other includes an exchange charge of 160 million on retranslation of net debt balances held to finance our overseas investments, which have increased by a similar amount.
In June 2005 we took the opportunity to refinance our existing corporate revolving credit facility of US$450 million to increase the size to US$640 million, extend the tenure to June 2008 with the option to extend for a further two years, subject to agreement by the bank syndicate and improve the commercial terms.
Business and financial review 37 Dividends from joint ventures and associates of 92 million are up 23 million from 2004, reflecting the portfolio expansion.
A summarised, reclassified presentation of the Group Balance sheet cash flow is set out below: Year ended Year ended A summarised, reclassified presentation of the Group 31 December 31December 2005 2004 balance sheet is set out below: m m As at As at Profit for the year post exceptionals 330 104 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 Adjustment for non-cash items see note below 180 91 m m Dividends received from joint ventures Non-current assets and associates 92 69 Intangibles and tangibles 4,590 3,748 Movements in working capital 21 3 Investments 1,379 1,255 Capital expenditure maintenance 72 59 Other long-term receivables 623 664 Other cash movements 3 Total non-current assets 6,592 5,667 Tax and interest paid 227 104 Net current liabilities Free cash flow 285 104 excluding net debt items 327 116 Finance costs exceptional 5 26 Non-current liabilities Refinancing costs capitalised on acquisition debt 7 22 excluding net debt items 911 748 Capital expenditure for growth projects 188 158 Net debt 2,979 2,745 Returns from investments capital Net assets 2,375 2,058 expenditure other financial investments 48 61 Gearing 125% 133% Acquisitions 571 1,195 Debt capitalisation 56% 57% Disposals 211 17 Receipt from TXU administrators exceptional 58 The increase in intangibles and tangibles of 842 million Dividends paid 37 principally reflects the acquisition of Saltend, capital expenditure Proceeds from share rights issue 2 286 on growth projects, such as Tihama, and retranslation gains of Funding from minorities 80 165 179 million, principally on our Australian and US dollar assets.
Foreign exchange and other 181 62 The increase in net current liabilities relates to 228 million of derivatives recognised in the balance sheet following the Increase in net debt 305 828 adoption of IAS 39 and provisions for power contracts that Opening net debt 2,745 692 were made on the acquisition of Saltend.
Under IFRS, the Transitional adjustment on first-time derivative contracts are revalued at each period end but have adoption of IAS 39 44 no impact on future cash flow.
Net cash debt on acquisition of subsidiaries 27 1,225 Non-current liabilities have increased by 163 million to Closing net debt 2,979 2,745 911 million principally due to derivatives recognised following the adoption of IFRS and deferred tax liabilities recognised on Non-cash items include income statement charges for interest, the acquisition of Saltend.
tax, depreciation, the share of profit of joint ventures and associates, Net debt has increased in 2005 as a result of the acquisition the exceptional profit on the TXU settlement and the reversal of of Saltend and further capital expenditure at Tihama, partially Rugeley impairment.
offset by strong cash flow generation and the disposals of Valley Power and Italian Wind.
38 International Power Annual Report 2005 Treasury policy seeks to ensure that adequate financial resources are available for the development of the Groups business while managing its currency, interest rate and counterparty credit risks.
Net debt and capital structure Secured non-recourse finance Group net debt at 31 December comprised: The Groups financial strategy is to finance its assets by means of limited or non-recourse project financings at the asset or intermediate holding company level, wherever that is practical.
2005 2004 m m During 2005 an additional 275 million of non-recourse debt was secured in relation to the financing of Saltend.
This was Cash and cash equivalents 620 565 more than offset by a reduction in debt of 185 million relating Assets held for trading 52 47 to the disposal of assets, planned principal repayments of Convertible bonds 125 158 56 million and TXU proceeds of 58 million which were Other bonds 445 449 used to repay non-recourse debt at Rugeley.
Foreign exchange and other non-cash movements increased the sterling value Secured bank loans and preferred equity 3,081 2,750 of non-recourse debt by 160 million, principally due to the Net debt 2,979 2,745 strengthening of the US dollar during 2005.
Corporate and Group debt The above net debt of 2,979 million excludes the Groups During 2005 both Standard & Poors and Moodys share of joint ventures and associates net debt of 1,625 million reviewed the credit rating at corporate level.
These obligations are generally secured maintained the rating of BB-, but upgraded the outlook from by the assets of the respective joint venture or associate negative to stable and Moodys maintained its rating of B2 borrower and are not guaranteed by International Power plc with stable outlook.
In January 2006 a rating from Fitch was or any other Group company.
In view of the significance of issued of BB with stable outlook.
this amount, it has been disclosed separately.
On 31 December 2005 we had aggregated debt financing of The Group has sufficient credit facilities in place to fund and 3,651 million denominated principally in US dollars, Australian support adequately its existing operations and to finance the dollars, sterling, Euro, Czech koruna and Thai baht.
Of this purchase of new assets.
These facilities comprise a revolving amount 187 million is due for repayment in 2006, with the credit facility and convertible bond.
The revolving credit facility majority of the remaining balance due after 2010. of US$640 million 373 million expires in June 2008 but can be extended by a further two years subject to bank approval.
Treasury and counterparty risk policy The convertible bond of US$252 million 125 million matures Treasury policy seeks to ensure that adequate financial in August 2023 but with bond holders having the right to put resources are available for the development of the Groups the bond back to the Group in August 2010, 2013, 2018 and business whilst managing its currency, interest rate and 2023.
In addition, the Group has uncommitted bilateral credit counterparty credit risks.
The Groups treasury policy is not to lines from various banks at its disposal at the corporate level.
Group treasury acts within The remaining portion of the 2% convertible bond of clearly defined guidelines that are approved by the Board.
US$51 million 29 million matured in November 2005 The major areas of treasury activity are set out opposite.
and was fully repaid at a redemption price of 112.4% of its Further information on the Groups financial risk management principal amount.
objectives and policies are included on page 53 and in notes 32 and 33 to the consolidated financial statements.
Business and financial review 39 Rugeley, UK to the Group: adjusting for this item would increase fixed rate Currency translation exposure debt to 69%.
The level of fixed interest rate debt has increased Consistent with the majority of other international companies, in 2005 as the hedging strategy for the EME international the results of the Groups foreign operations are translated into portfolio was implemented in January 2005.
Significant interest sterling at the average exchange rates for the period concerned.
rate management programmes and instruments require specific The balance sheets of foreign operations are translated into approval of the Board.
The weighted average interest of the sterling at the closing exchange rates.
In order to hedge the net fixed rate debt was 7% in 2005.
Where project finance is assets of foreign operations, borrowings are generally in the same utilised, our policy is to align the maturity of the debt with currency as the underlying investment.
The Group aims to hedge the contractual terms of the customer offtake agreement.
a reasonable proportion of its non-sterling assets in this way.
It is our policy not to hedge currency translation through foreign Counterparty credit risk exchange contracts or currency swaps.
Average and year-end The Groups policy is to manage its credit exposure to sterling rates for major currencies, which are significant to the trading and financial counterparties within clearly defined limits.
Group, were: Energy trading activities are strictly monitored and controlled Average At 31 December through delegated authorities and procedures, which include 2005 2004 2005 2004 specific criteria for the management of counterparty credit exposures in each of our key regions.
Counterparty exposure US dollar 1.82 1.83 1.72 1.92 via customer offtake agreements is monitored and managed Australian dollar 2.39 2.48 2.34 2.45 by the local asset team with assistance from Group Treasury where appropriate.
In addition, Group Treasury manages the Euro 1.46 1.46 1.46 1.41 Group-wide counterparty credit exposure on a consolidated Czech koruna 43.56 46.91 42.27 42.87 basis, with the active and close involvement of the global risk manager.
Financial counterparty credit exposure is limited to Currency transaction exposure arrangements with relationship banks and commercial paper This arises where a business unit makes actual sales and with companies which have strong investment grade purchases in a currency other than its functional currency.
Transaction exposure also arises on the remittance from overseas of dividends or surplus funds.
The Groups policy International Financial Reporting Standards is to match transaction exposure where possible, and hedge Under EU legislation, all listed companies are required to remaining transactions as soon as they are committed, by report their consolidated results under International Financial using foreign currency contracts and similar instruments.
Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the EU, for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2005.
Short-term deposits As a result of the need to present comparatives as well as Surplus funds are placed for short periods in investments that current year numbers under IFRS, our date of transition to carry low credit risk and are readily realisable in major currencies.
This is the Groups first annual report and accounts to Interest rate risk be presented under IFRS.
Comparative information, which The Groups policy is to fix interest rates for a significant portion was originally presented under UK GAAP in the 2004 of the debt 61% as at 31 December 2005 using forward rate Annual Report, has been restated on the same basis.
or interest rate swap agreements.
Turbogs interest costs are a pass through in the PPA tariff and therefore not an exposure 40 International Power Annual Report 2005 Bellingham, North America Photography by Sky High Enterprises In accordance with the exemptions available under IFRS 1, Overview of impact the Group has decided not to restate the comparatives to The financial information included in the financial statements take into account the requirements of the accounting standards has been prepared on the basis of all applicable IFRS issued applicable to financial instruments IAS 32 and IAS 39. by the International Accounting Standards Board and adopted Hence for 2004 the information presented in the financial by the EU.
As required by IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of statements in respect of financial instruments is measured, International Financial Reporting Standards the Group is recorded and presented in accordance with UK GAAP.
required to explain how the transition from UK GAAP to Derivatives have been recognised at fair value at 1 January IFRS has affected its reported financial position and financial 2005, with a corresponding charge or credit to reserves.
In accordance with these requirements we The adjustments made to the balance sheet at 1 January 2005, set out in note 42 to the accounts: to reflect the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39, are also a reconciliation of equity reported under UK GAAP to equity outlined in detail in note 42 to the financial statements.
under IFRS as at 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2004: Those areas which have the most significant impact on the a reconciliation of the profit reported under UK GAAP for the Groups reported position and financial performance during year ended 31 December 2004 to profit reported under IFRS.
2004 and as at 1 January 2005 under IFRS compared with the previously reported results under UK GAAP are: IFRS 1 states that an entity shall use the same accounting policies in its opening IFRS balance sheet, throughout all the cessation of goodwill amortisation: periods presented in its first IFRS financial statements and differences in accounting for deferred tax, principally for all periods presented thereafter.
In order to facilitate with respect to fair value adjustments on acquisition: the transition to IFRS, it also allows adoption options and exemptions in the initial application of certain IFRSs.
dividends declared and not approved at the balance The Group has applied the following options which are sheet date these are not included as liabilities in the outlined in note 1 to the financial statements : financial statements: Business combinations prior to 1 January 2004 the present value of net pension scheme obligations have not been restated in accordance with IFRS 3 recognised on balance sheet excluding actuarial gains Business Combinations.
and losses not recognised : The deemed cost of the Groups US merchant fleet, owned the recognition of a charge to the income statement by American National Power and which was impaired at for share-based payments: 31 December 2003, has been measured at its fair value at split accounting of convertible debt in order to recognise 1 January 2004. both debt and equity components: Cumulative foreign exchange differences in reserves have recognition on the balance sheet at fair value of all been deemed to be zero on adoption of IFRS.
Gains and qualifying derivatives: losses on subsequent disposals of foreign operations will be measured by reference to their carrying values translated at deferral of fair value mark to market gains and losses within 1 January 2004. hedging reserves for qualifing cash flow hedges.
The Group has recognised the pension schemes surpluses A detailed description of the IFRS transition adjustments is and deficits in full as at 1 January 2004, with a corresponding included in note 42. adjustment to reserves.
The Group has used the corridor method to recognise actuarial gains and losses arising after the date of transition.
Business and financial review 41 Accounting policy Critical accounting judgements and key sources of uncertainty derive from the determination of the: Income recognition correct revenue recognition policy based on the contractual arrangements in place and the allocation of the risks and rewards of ownership of the plant appropriate accounting treatment of receipts from contractors Recoverable amount of property, indications of impairment and the measurement of fair value using projected cash flows, together with risk plant and equipment adjusted discount rates, or other more appropriate methods of valuation Fair values on acquisition useful economic life and residual value of certain assets fair values of assets and liabilities acquired and hence how much of the purchase price is attributed to goodwill arising on acquisition of a business Consolidation policy amount of influence extent of influence the Group is in a position to exercise over the operations, strategic direction and financial policies of entities in which it holds an equity stake Items of income and expense which require items of income or expense which are material by virtue of their nature and amount which require separate separate disclosure exceptional items disclosure.
The Directors consider these items most appropriately disclosed as exceptional Taxation appropriate provisions for taxation taking into account anticipated decisions of the tax authorities assessment of the ability to utilise tax benefits through future earnings Accounting policies A discussion follows on the policies we believe to be the most on an on-going basis, whether a forecast transaction is critical in considering the impact of estimates and judgements both highly probable and whether the hedge is effective.
This on the Groups financial position and results of operations.
requires both subjective and objective measures of determination.
When our power plants sell their output under long-term Critical accounting policies and estimates purchase agreements it is usual for the power plant owning company to receive payment known as a capacity payment We prepare our consolidated financial statements in compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards for the provision of electrical capacity whether or not the IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board offtaker requests electrical output.
In these situations, where as adopted by the European Union.
As such, we are required there is a long-term contract to purchase electricity output to make certain estimates, judgements and assumptions that and electrical capacity, it is necessary for the Group to evaluate we believe are reasonable based upon the information the contractual arrangements and determine whether they available.
These estimates and assumptions affect the reported constitute a form of lease or a service contract.
Where the amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial arrangements are determined to be a form of lease an statements, the reported amounts of revenue and expenses evaluation is then required of where the substantial risks and during the periods presented and the related disclosure of rewards of ownership reside in order to determine the form contingent assets and liabilities.
For those arrangements determined to be finance leases, it is necessary to calculate the proportion On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates using of total capacity payments which should be treated as finance historical experience, consultation with experts and other methods income, capital repayment and as a fee for service provision considered reasonable in the particular circumstances to ensure and for operating leases the split between rental payments full compliance with IFRS and best practice.
Actual results may and fees for service provision.
differ significantly from our estimates, the effect of which is recognised in the period in which the facts that give rise to The Group receives amounts from contractors in respect the revision become known.
of late commissioning and under performance of new power plants.
Receipts which relate to compensation for lost revenue Our Group accounting policies are detailed on pages 83 to 87. are treated as income when the compensation is due and The table above identifies some of the areas where significant payable by the contractor.
Those receipts that relate to judgements are required, normally due to the uncertainties compensation for plants not achieving long-term performance involved in the application of certain accounting policies.
levels specified in the original contracts are recorded as a reduction in the cost of the assets.
Income recognition The majority of our income is derived from owning and Recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment operating power plants worldwide.
In merchant markets The original cost of greenfield developed power plant and other the Group enters into various types of hedging or forward assets includes relevant borrowings and development costs: contracts for the buying and selling of commodities related to this activity: principally sales of electricity and the purchase Interest on borrowings relating to major capital projects with of fuel for its own power plants.
These contracts typically fall long periods of development is capitalised during construction within the definition of derivative financial instruments and and then amortised over the useful life of the asset.
where required have to be marked to market.
Accounting for these contracts as cash flow hedges allows, to the extent the Project development costs including appropriate direct hedge is effective, the changes in value of the derivatives to internal costs are capitalised when it is virtually certain be deferred in equity.
In order to achieve cash flow hedge that the project will proceed to completion and income accounting it is necessary for the Group to determine, will be realised.
42 International Power Annual Report 2005 Our key performance indicators address two key aspects of the business: its profitability and its cash generation.
Depreciation of plant is charged so as to write down the value Where the Group owns between 20% and 50% of the equity of of the asset to its residual value over its estimated useful life: an entity and is in a position to exercise significant influence over the entitys operating and financial policies, we treat the entity as Gas turbines and related equipment are depreciated over an associate or jointly controlled entity.
Equally, where the Group 30 years to a 10% residual value, unless the circumstances holds a substantial interest but less than 20% in an entity and of the project or life of specific components indicate a has the power to exert significant influence over its operations, shorter period or a lower residual value.
we treat it as an associate or jointly controlled entity.
Coal and hydro plant is considered on an individual basis.
Exceptional items Management regularly considers whether there are any indications of impairment to carrying values of property, plant The Directors consider that items of income or expense and equipment and other assets e. g. the impact of current which are material by virtue of their nature and amount adverse market conditions.
Impairment reviews are generally should be disclosed separately if the financial statements are based on risk adjusted discounted cash flow projections that to fairly present the financial position and financial performance require estimates of discount rates and future market prices of the Group.
The Directors label these items collectively as over the remaining lives of the assets.
Determining which transactions are to be considered Fair values on acquisition exceptional in nature is often a subjective matter.
However, circumstances that the Directors believe would give rise The Group is required to bring acquired assets and liabilities to exceptional items for separate disclosure would include: on to the Group balance sheet at their fair value.
Power plant and equipment usually have long operating lives, and are often disposals of investments: bought with associated long-term contracts such as PPAs.
Hence determination of the fair values of these long-life assets discontinued operations: and contracts can require a significant amount of judgement.
All exceptional items are included under the appropriate Consolidation policy amount of influence income statement line item to which they relate.
In addition, The determination of the level of influence the Group has for clarity, separate disclosure is made of all such items in over a business is often a mix of contractually defined and one column on the face of the income statement.
subjective factors that can be critical to the appropriate accounting treatment of entities in the consolidated accounts.
We achieve Taxation influence through Board representation and by obtaining rights of veto over significant actions.
We generally treat investments The level of tax provisioning is dependent on subjective where the Group holds less than 20% of the equity as judgement as to the outcome of decisions to be made by investments available for sale.
These investments available the tax authorities in the various tax jurisdictions in which for sale are carried at market value where market prices are International Power operates.
Where quoted market prices in an active market are It is necessary to consider the extent to which deferred tax not available, and where fair value cannot be reliably measured, assets should be recognised based on an assessment of the unquoted equity instruments are measured at cost.
extent to which they are regarded as recoverable.
Business and financial review 43 Al Kamil, Oman Earnings per share basic Key performance indicators KPIs pre-exceptional Our financial KPIs address two key aspects of the business, pence per share its profitability and its cash generation.
15 13.5 Earnings per share EPS EPS is a measure of the profitability of the Group and shareholder returns.
Growth in profitability over time is indicative of the ability of the Group to add value.
The 10 8.6 Directors consider pre-exceptional EPS as the appropriate indicator of performance as it excludes significant items which, by virtue of their size or incidence, could potentially distort the year-on-year comparison.
5 2005 EPS excluding exceptional items at 13.5p is 57% ahead of 2004.
This increase results from the continued recovery in the UK and US merchant markets together with an excellent performance from the assets acquired in 2004 and 2005.
0 2004 2005 Free cash flow Power generation is a capital intensive business and hence it requires the assets within the Group to generate sufficient cash Free cash flow million to repay the initial investment in the assets, to provide returns 300 for shareholders and to provide funds for future investment 285 opportunities.
The Directors consider free cash flow to be the appropriate indicator of cash generating performance as it measures the cash generated from operating activities, excluding those cash flows relating to exceptional items.
This increase also reflects the underlying profitability of the acquired assets together with the improving margins 104 in the UK and US merchant markets.
