Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 125 40 JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES The Group has the following significant investments in joint ventures and associates.
Country of incorporation, Group registration and Accounting Type of effective Name and nature of business operation period end share shareholding Joint ventures EA IPR Retail Partnership Australia 31 December Partners' Capital 50% South East Australia Gas Pty Limited gas pipeline Australia 30 June Ordinary Shares 33% EcoElctrica LP power generation Bermuda 31 December Partners' Capital 35% Prazsk Teplrensk A. S. power generation Czech Republic 31 December Ordinary Shares 49% Hartwell Energy Limited Partnership power generation US 31 December Partners' Capital 50% Oyster Creek Limited Partnership power generation US 31 December Partners' Capital 50% Associates Derwent Cogeneration Limited power generation England and Wales 31 March Ordinary Shares 23% PT Paiton Energy power generation Indonesia 31 December Ordinary Shares 31% ISAB Energy Srl power generation Italy 31 December Ordinary Shares 34% Malakoff Berhad power generation Malaysia 31 August Ordinary Shares 18% Kot Addu Power Company Limited power generation Pakistan 30 June Ordinary Shares 36% Uch Power Limited power generation Pakistan 31 December Ordinary Shares 40% The Hub Power Company Limited power generation Pakistan 30 June Ordinary Shares 17% Carbopego Abastecimento fide Combustiveis, S. A. fuel supplies Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50% Pegop Energia Electrica, S. A. power station operations Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50% Tejo Energia - Producao e Distribuicao fide Energia Electrica, S. A. power generation Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50% Q Power QSC Qatar 31 December Ordinary Shares 40% Uni-Mar Enerji Yatirimlari A. S. power generation Turkey 31 December Ordinary Shares 33% Arabian Power Company PJSC power generation UAE 31 December Ordinary Shares 20% Shuweihat CMS International Power Company PJSC power generation UAE 31 December Ordinary Shares 20% International Power continues to equity account for Malakoff and HUBCO, despite its shareholdings being less than 20%, as it continues to exert and has the power to exert significant influence over both assets.
At both HUBCO and Malakoff, International Power continues to have significant board representation.
Held by an intermediate subsidiary Operates in Puerto Rico 41 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY The Groups accounting policies are set out in note 1 to these financial statements.
Management is required to exercise significant judgement in the application of these policies.
Areas which Management believes require the most critical accounting judgements are as follows apart from those policies involving estimation which are outlined in b below.
a Critical accounting judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies Cash flow hedge accounting The Group enters into various types of hedging or forward contracts for the buying and selling of commodities: principally sales of electricity and the purchase of fuel for its own power plants.
In merchant markets these contracts typically fall within the definition of derivative financial instruments and accordingly have to be marked to market.
Accounting for these contracts as cash flow hedges allows, to the extent the hedge is effective, the changes in value of the derivatives to be deferred in equity.
In order to achieve cash flow hedge accounting it is necessary for the Group to determine, on an on-going basis, whether a forecast transaction is both highly probable and whether the hedge is effective.
This requires both subjective and objective measures of determination.
Income recognition from long-term PPAs When power plants sell their output under long-term PPAs it is usual for the power plant owning company to receive payment known as a capacity payment for the provision of electrical capacity whether or not the off-taker requests electrical output.
In these situations, where there is a long-term contract to purchase electricity output and electrical capacity, it is necessary for the Group to evaluate the contractual arrangements and determine whether they constitute a form of lease or a service contract.
126 International Power Annual Report 2005 41 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY continued For those arrangements determined to be leases, further judgements are required to determine whether the arrangement is a finance or operating lease.
This assessment requires an evaluation of where the substantial risks and rewards of ownership reside.
For finance leases it is necessary to calculate the proportion of total capacity payments which should be treated as finance income, capital repayment and as a fee for service provision.
For operating leases it is necessary to determine the allocation of total capacity payments between rental payments and fees for service provision.
Evaluation of levels of control and influence The determination of the level of influence the Group has over a business is often a mix of contractually defined and subjective factors that can be critical to the appropriate accounting treatment of entities in the consolidated accounts.
We achieve influence through Board representation and by obtaining rights of veto over significant actions.
We generally treat investments where the Group holds less than 20% of the equity as investments available for sale.
These investments available for sale are carried at market value where market prices are available.
Where quoted market prices in an active market are not available, and where fair value cannot be reliably measured, unquoted equity instruments are measured at cost.
Where the Group owns between 20% and 50% of the equity of an entity and is in a position to exercise significant influence over the entitys operating and financial policies, we treat the entity as a joint venture or an associate.
Equally, where the Group holds a substantial interest but less than 20% in an entity and has the power to exert significant influence over its operations, we treat it as a joint venture or an associate.
This treatment is applied to our interests in Malakoff Berhad in Malaysia of which we own 18% and The Hub Power Company in Pakistan of which we own 17% refer to note 40.
Exceptional items The Directors consider that items of income or expense which are material by virtue of their nature and amount should be disclosed separately if the financial statements are to fairly present the financial position and financial performance of the entity.
The Directors label these items collectively as exceptional items.
Determining which transactions are to be considered exceptional in nature is often a subjective matter.
However, circumstances that the Directors believe would give rise to exceptional items for separate disclosure would include: i disposals of investments: ii discontinued operations: iii impairments and impairment reversals.
All exceptional items are included under the appropriate income statement line item to which they relate.
In addition, for clarity, separate disclosure is made of all items in one column on the face of the income statement.
Taxation The level of tax provisioning is dependent on subjective judgement as to the outcome of decisions to be made by the tax authorities in the various tax jurisdictions around the world in which International Power operates.
It is necessary to consider the extent to which deferred tax assets should be recognised based on an assessment of the extent to which they are regarded as recoverable.
b Key sources of estimation uncertainty Useful economic lives of property, plant and equipment The original cost of greenfield developed power plant and other assets includes relevant borrowings and development costs: i Interest on borrowings relating to major capital projects with long periods of development is capitalised during construction and then amortised over the useful life of the asset.
ii Project development costs including appropriate direct internal costs are capitalised when it is virtually certain that the contract will proceed to completion and income will be realised.
Depreciation of plant and other assets is charged so as to write down the value of those assets to their residual value over their respective estimated useful lives.
The Directors are required to assess the useful economic lives of the assets so that depreciation is charged on a systematic and proportionate basis to the current carrying amount.
It is Group policy to depreciate gas turbines and related equipment over 30 years to a 10% residual value, unless the circumstances of the project or life of specific components indicate a shorter period or a lower residual value.
Coal and hydro plants are considered on an individual basis.
Fair values on acquisition The Group is required to bring acquired assets and liabilities on to the Group balance sheet at their fair value.
Power plant and equipment usually have long operating lives, and are often bought with associated long-term contracts such as PPAs.
Hence determination of the fair values of these long-life assets and contracts can require a significant amount of judgement.
