Company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 133 Notes to the Company financial Under section 230 4 of the Companies f Deferred taxation statements Act 1985 the Company is exempt from Deferred taxation is provided on timing For the year ended 31 December 2005 the requirement to present its own profit differences, arising from the different 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES and loss account.
treatment for accounts and taxation a Basis of preparation purposes of transactions and events As the results of the Company are being The financial statements have been recognised in the financial statements of presented together with its consolidated prepared in accordance with applicable the current year and previous years.
financial statements refer to pages 79 to accounting standards, and under the Deferred taxation is calculated at the rates 131, the Company has taken advantage of historical cost accounting rules.
at which it is estimated that tax will arise.
the exemption contained in FRS 8 and has Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not The following accounting policies have therefore not disclosed transactions or discounted.
been applied consistently in dealing with balances with entities which form part of items which are considered material in the Group or investees of the Group g Derivative financial instruments for relation to the financial statements, except qualifying as related parties.
year ended 31 December 2005 as noted below.
The Company has applied the accounting b Income recognition In these financial statements the following requirements of FRS 25 and FRS 26 Dividend income from subsidiary new standards have been adopted for the prospectively with effect from 1 January undertakings is recognised in the profit first time: 2005.
Loans and receivables and long-term and loss account on receipt of the cash.
loans payable are held at amortised cost.
i FRS 20 Share-based Payments : c Pension schemes ii FRS 21 Events after the Balance h Financial guarantees The Company operates a pension scheme Sheet Date : Where the Company enters into financial by participating in the International Power guarantee contracts to guarantee the iii FRS 23 The Effects of Changes in section of the Electricity Supply Pension indebtedness of other companies within its Foreign Exchange Rates : Scheme providing benefits based on final group, the Company considers these to be pensionable pay.
The assets of the scheme iv the presentation requirements of FRS insurance arrangements, and accounts for are held separately from those of the 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure them as such.
In this respect, the Company Company.
and Presentation : treats the guarantee contract as a Pension scheme assets are measured using contingent liability until such time as it v FRS 26 Financial Instruments: market values.
Pension scheme liabilities becomes probable that the Company will Measurement : are measured using a projected unit credit be required to make a payment under the vi FRS 28 Corresponding Amounts.
method and discounted at the current rate guarantee.
of return on a high quality corporate bond The adoption of these new standards had of equivalent term and currency to the i Share-based payments no impact on the Companys profit or net liability.
The Company issues equity-settled assets with the exception of FRS 20 and share-based payments to certain FRS 21: The pension scheme surplus to the extent employees.
Equity-settled share-based that it is recoverable or deficit is i FRS 20 resulted in the recognition of payments are measured at fair value recognised in full.
The movement in the a share-based payments charge to excluding the effect of non market-based scheme surplus deficit is split between the profit and loss account of 6 vesting conditions at the date of grant.
operating charges, finance items and, in million in 2005 2004: 1 million.
The fair value determined at the date of the statement of total recognised gains grant of the equity-settled share-based ii Under FRS 21, dividends declared and losses, actuarial gains and losses.
payments is expensed on a straight-line after the balance sheet date are not For defined contribution arrangements, basis over the vesting period, based on accrued until such time as they are contributions are charged to the profit and the Companys estimate of the shares that approved at the AGM.
As a result, loss account as they fall due.
will eventually vest and where applicable, the dividends previously accrued for adjusted for the effect of non marketat 31 December 2004 in the prior d Tangible fixed assets based vesting conditions.
year Company accounts has been Tangible fixed assets are stated at original adjusted to increase the net assets of Fair value is measured using the Blackcost less accumulated depreciation and any the Company by 37 million in the Scholes pricing model.
The expected life provision for impairment in value.
used in the model has been adjusted, Depreciation is calculated so as to writebased on managements best estimate, for The recognition and measurement down the cost of tangible fixed assets to the effects of non-transferability, any requirements of FRS 17 Retirement their residual value evenly over their exercise restrictions and behavioural Benefits have also been adopted, estimated useful lives.
previously the transitional disclosures of that standard had been followed.
The depreciation charge is based on the j Foreign currencies following estimates of useful lives: The accounting policies under these new Foreign currency monetary assets and standards are set out below.
FRS 28 liabilities are translated at the rate of Years Corresponding Amounts has had no exchange at the balance sheet date.
Fixtures, fittings, material effect as it imposes the same Foreign currency non-monetary items tools and equipment 3-10 requirements for comparatives as hitherto measured in terms of historical cost are required by the Companies Act 1985. translated at the rate of exchange at the Computer equipment date of the transaction.
Exchange and software 3-5 The corresponding amounts in these differences on monetary items are dealt financial statements are restated in Leasehold improvements Life of lease with in the profit and loss account.
accordance with the new policies, other Exchange differences on non-monetary than those covered by the exceptions e Fixed asset investments items are recognised in line with whether permitted by FRS 25 and FRS 26.
FRS 25 Investments in subsidiary undertakings are the gain or loss on the non-monetary item and FRS 26 permits the corresponding stated at cost less provision for impairment.
itself is recognised in the profit and loss amounts not to be restated and the account or in equity.
Company has adopted this approach.
