Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 123 35 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES a Legal proceedings against the Company The Company is aware of the following matters, which involve or may involve legal proceedings against the Group: i Claims and potential claims by or on behalf of current and former employees, including former employees of the Central Electricity Generating Board CEGB, and contractors in respect of industrial illness and injury.
RWE npower has agreed to indemnify International Power plc on an after-tax basis to the extent of 50% of any liability that the Company may incur whether directly or indirectly as a consequence of those proceedings to the extent such liability is not insured by Electra Insurance Limited.
ii In 1994 separate complaints were made by the National Association of Licensed Opencast Operators NALOO and the South Wales Small Miners Association SWSMA to the European Commission against the Company, PowerGen plc, British Coal Corporation and HM Government.
The complaint alleges violations of EU competition law arising out of the coal purchasing arrangements entered into by the CEGB prior to 1 April 1990 and requests the Commission to find that the CEGB's practices violated EU law.
NALOO and SWSMA allege that such a finding would be grounds for a claim for damages in the English courts by their respective members.
The Commission ruled on the complaint in 1998 and did not make any findings against the Group.
Appeals against the Commissions findings were brought by NALOO and SWSMA.
The SWSMA appeal was initially ruled out of time, but on appeal a faction was allowed to proceed.
Progress with this claim will be influenced by the outcome of the NALOO appeal.
At first instance, the European Court ruled that the Commission is under an obligation to investigate the complaint by NALOO.
The Company, PowerGen plc, British Coal Corporation and the Commission appealed against the ruling to the European Court of Justice which delivered a judgment on 2 October 2003 for the main part dismissing the appeal.
In its judgment, the court decided that the Commission has the power to investigate and the matter is now with the Commission for consideration.
It is not practicable to estimate legal costs or possible damages, at this stage.
RWE npower has agreed to indemnify International Power on an after-tax basis to the extent of 50% of any liability that the Company may incur whether directly or indirectly as a consequence of those proceedings.
The Directors are of the opinion, having regard to legal advice received, the Groups insurance arrangements and provisions carried in the balance sheet, that it is remote that the matters referred to above will, in aggregate, have a material effect on the Group's financial position, results of operations or liquidity.
b Taxation The Company is aware of a number of issues which are, or may be, the subject of disputes with the tax authorities in the territories where the Group has operations, including its joint ventures and associates.
The Directors are of the opinion, having regard to the professional advice received, that adequate provision has been made for the settlement of any tax liabilities that might arise.
c Bonds and guarantees Various growth and expansion projects are supported by bonds, letters of credit and guarantees issued by the Group totalling 609 million.
Energy trading activities relating to merchant plant are supported by letters of credit and guarantees issued by the Group totalling 193 million.
d Joint ventures and associates i Legal proceedings Uch Power Limited UPL, located in Pakistan, in which International Power has a 40% share, is party to a gas supply agreement GSA with the Oil & Gas Development Authority OGDCL.
At 31 December 2005 there were unresolved disputes between UPL and OGDCL in regards to amounts owed to UPL by OGDCL and amounts owed to OGDCL by UPL.
These disputes relate to issues in 2002 and 2003 around events of force majeure claimed by OGDCL and other issues around OGDCLs failure to deliver gas in accordance with the terms and conditions of the GSA.
The Groups share of the amounts subject to dispute at 31 December 2005 are amounts receivable of 14 million and amounts payable of 16 million.
There is no recourse to International Power plc, under this claim.
ii Bonds and guarantees The Groups joint ventures and associates also have various growth and expansion projects that are supported by bonds, letters of credit and guarantees.
The Groups share of these bonds, letters of credit and guarantees amount to 53 million.
These obligations are normally secured by the assets of the respective joint venture or associate.
Any amounts guaranteed by International Power plc or any other Group subsidiary are included within bonds and guarantees disclosed in note 35 c. 36 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The key management personnel of International Power plc comprises the Chairman, Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
The compensation of key management personnel can be found in the Directors remuneration report set out on pages 64 to 75 of the Annual Report.
i Operations and maintenance contracts In the course of normal operations, the Group has contracted on an arms length basis to provide power station operation and maintenance services to joint ventures and associates.
During the year the Group derived income of 69 million 2004: 37 million from these arrangements.
Included in trade receivables is 6 million 2004: 7 million in relation to these contracts.
ii Retail supply contracts In the course of normal operations, the Group has contracted on an arms length basis to provide power and gas to its retail joint ventures.
During the year the Group derived income of 8 million 2004: nil from these arrangements.
Included in trade receivables is 1 million 2004: nil in relation to these contracts.
iii Transportation contracts In the course of normal operations, the Group has contracts in place, in relation to fuel transportation, with one of its joint ventures.
During the year, the Group incurred costs of 8 million 2004: 8 million in relation to these contracts.
There was no trade payable or receivable in relation to these contracts at 31 December 2005.
