124 International Power Annual Report 2005 iv Other contracts Mitsui & Co. of Japan Mitsui is, pursuant to the terms of the UK Listing Rules, a related party of the Company due to its interest in Saltend and the assets acquired from EME.
In 2005, TNP, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a contract with a company in the same group as Mitsui, relating to the supply of material for the 23 MW extension of its 120 MW plant.
The capital cost of this contract is JPY1,039 million 5.1million.
This contract was entered into after a competitive tendering process.
37 EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE In January 2006 International Power signed an agreement to acquire 40% of the Hidd independent power and water project in Bahrain.
Completion is expected to take place in July 2006.
Also in January 2006 Rugeley Power Limited received a further 15 million in respect of our claim for compensation for the termination of the TXU tolling agreement in November 2002.
38 EVENTS SUBSEQUENT TO THE DATE OF THE AUDITORS REPORT There are no events to report subsequent to the date of the auditors report.
39 SUBSIDIARIES The Group has the following significant investments in subsidiaries.
Country of Group incorporation and effective Name and nature of business registration Type of share shareholding Canunda Power Pty Limited power generation Australia Ordinary Shares 100% Gippsland Power Pty Limited power generation Australia Ordinary Shares 70% Hazelwood Power Partnership power generation Australia Partners Capital 92% Latrobe Power Partnership power generation Australia Partners Capital 70% Perth Power Partnership power generation Australia Partners Capital 49% Synergen Power Pty Limited power generation Australia Ordinary Shares 100% International Power Opatovice A. S. power generation Czech Republic Ordinary Shares 99% Deeside Power Development Company Limited power generation England and Wales Ordinary Shares 100% First Hydro Company power generation England and Wales Ordinary Shares 70% First Hydro Finance plc financing company England and Wales Ordinary Shares 70% IPM Eagle LLP investment holding company England and Wales Partners Capital 70% Normanglade 4 LLP financing company England and Wales Partners Capital 70% Pelican Point Power Limited power generation England and Wales Ordinary Shares 100% Rugeley Power Limited power generation England and Wales Ordinary Shares 100% Saltend Cogeneration Company Limited power generation England and Wales Ordinary Shares 70% IPR Insurance Company Limited insurance captive Guernsey Ordinary Shares 100% International Power Jersey Limited financing company Jersey Ordinary Shares 100% Al Kamil Power Company SAOG power generation Oman Ordinary Shares 65% Turbogs Produtora Enrgetica S. A power generation Portugal Ordinary Shares 60% Tihama Power Generation Company Limited power generation Saudi Arabia Ordinary Shares 60% Electro Metalurgica del Ebro SL power generation Spain Ordinary Shares 64% Ibrica fide Enrgas SL power generation Spain Ordinary Shares 70% Thai National Power Company Limited power generation Thailand Ordinary Shares 100% ANP Bellingham Energy Company, LLC power generation US Ordinary Shares 100% ANP Blackstone Energy Company, LLC power generation US Ordinary Shares 100% ANP Funding I, LLC financing company US Ordinary Shares 100% Hays Energy Limited Partnership power generation US Partners Capital 100% Midlothian Energy Limited Partnership power generation US Partners Capital 100% Milford Power Limited Partnership power generation US Partners Capital 100% All subsidiaries operate in their country of incorporation, except as indicated below.
All subsidiaries have a 31 December year end.
The Group also has a number of overseas branch offices.
Held by an intermediate subsidiary Operates in the UK Operates in Australia
