Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 125 40 JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES The Group has the following significant investments in joint ventures and associates.
Country of incorporation, Group registration and Accounting Type of effective Name and nature of business operation period end share shareholding Joint ventures EA IPR Retail Partnership Australia 31 December Partners' Capital 50% South East Australia Gas Pty Limited gas pipeline Australia 30 June Ordinary Shares 33% EcoElctrica LP power generation Bermuda 31 December Partners' Capital 35% Prazsk Teplrensk A. S. power generation Czech Republic 31 December Ordinary Shares 49% Hartwell Energy Limited Partnership power generation US 31 December Partners' Capital 50% Oyster Creek Limited Partnership power generation US 31 December Partners' Capital 50% Associates Derwent Cogeneration Limited power generation England and Wales 31 March Ordinary Shares 23% PT Paiton Energy power generation Indonesia 31 December Ordinary Shares 31% ISAB Energy Srl power generation Italy 31 December Ordinary Shares 34% Malakoff Berhad power generation Malaysia 31 August Ordinary Shares 18% Kot Addu Power Company Limited power generation Pakistan 30 June Ordinary Shares 36% Uch Power Limited power generation Pakistan 31 December Ordinary Shares 40% The Hub Power Company Limited power generation Pakistan 30 June Ordinary Shares 17% Carbopego Abastecimento fide Combustiveis, S. A. fuel supplies Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50% Pegop Energia Electrica, S. A. power station operations Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50% Tejo Energia - Producao e Distribuicao fide Energia Electrica, S. A. power generation Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50% Q Power QSC Qatar 31 December Ordinary Shares 40% Uni-Mar Enerji Yatirimlari A. S. power generation Turkey 31 December Ordinary Shares 33% Arabian Power Company PJSC power generation UAE 31 December Ordinary Shares 20% Shuweihat CMS International Power Company PJSC power generation UAE 31 December Ordinary Shares 20% International Power continues to equity account for Malakoff and HUBCO, despite its shareholdings being less than 20%, as it continues to exert and has the power to exert significant influence over both assets.
At both HUBCO and Malakoff, International Power continues to have significant board representation.
Held by an intermediate subsidiary Operates in Puerto Rico 41 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY The Groups accounting policies are set out in note 1 to these financial statements.
Management is required to exercise significant judgement in the application of these policies.
Areas which Management believes require the most critical accounting judgements are as follows apart from those policies involving estimation which are outlined in b below.
a Critical accounting judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies Cash flow hedge accounting The Group enters into various types of hedging or forward contracts for the buying and selling of commodities: principally sales of electricity and the purchase of fuel for its own power plants.
In merchant markets these contracts typically fall within the definition of derivative financial instruments and accordingly have to be marked to market.
Accounting for these contracts as cash flow hedges allows, to the extent the hedge is effective, the changes in value of the derivatives to be deferred in equity.
In order to achieve cash flow hedge accounting it is necessary for the Group to determine, on an on-going basis, whether a forecast transaction is both highly probable and whether the hedge is effective.
This requires both subjective and objective measures of determination.
Income recognition from long-term PPAs When power plants sell their output under long-term PPAs it is usual for the power plant owning company to receive payment known as a capacity payment for the provision of electrical capacity whether or not the off-taker requests electrical output.
In these situations, where there is a long-term contract to purchase electricity output and electrical capacity, it is necessary for the Group to evaluate the contractual arrangements and determine whether they constitute a form of lease or a service contract.
