Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 83 iv The Group has elected to apply set out below.
These have been applied Notes to the consolidated IFRS 2 Share-based Payments to consistently in dealing with items which financial statements equity instruments that were granted are considered material in relation to the FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2005 on or after 7 November 2002.
Group's financial statements, with the 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES exception of those accounting policies v The Group has elected to measure the relating to IAS 32 and IAS 39 on financial a General information property, plant and equipment of its US instruments.
This is a result of the Groups International Power plc the Company operations at the date of transition to decision to adopt the IFRS 1 exemption and is a public limited company incorporated and IFRSs at its fair value and use that fair not restate comparatives for IAS 32 and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The value as its deemed cost at that date.
These accounting policies are address of its registered office is disclosed on vi The Group has taken the exemption from denoted with an asterisk and have only been the last page of this Annual Report.
The the requirement to restate comparative applied from 1 January 2005 and not to the consolidated financial statements of the information for IAS 32 Financial 2004 comparatives.
The accounting policies Company for the year ended 31 December Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation under UK GAAP applied to financial 2005 comprise the Company and its and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: instruments in 2004 are also included in this subsidiaries together referred to as the Recognition and Measurement in note and denoted with double asterisks.
Group and the Groups interest in joint accordance with IFRS 1 and has applied ventures and associates.
The parent company A full list of the UK GAAP accounting these standards prospectively from 1 financial statements present information policies is provided in the Groups financial January 2005 with no restatement of about the Company as a separate entity and statements for the year ended 31 December comparatives.
As a consequence, the not about its Group.
Reconciliations of the income Group has continued to apply UK GAAP of the Group are described in note 2. statement for the year ended 31 December in respect of financial instruments for the 2004 and the balance sheet and total equity comparative period presented.
The b Statement of compliance at 31 December 2004 from UK GAAP to impact of adopting IAS 32 and IAS 39 at European Union EU law IAS Regulation IFRS are included in note 42, together with 1 January 2005 is disclosed in note 42.
EC 1606 2002 requires that the narrative describing the key GAAP consolidated financial statements of the differences applicable to the Group.
d Adopted IFRS not yet applied Group, for the year ended 31 December A reconciliation of the balance sheet at The following Adopted IFRSs were available 2005, be prepared in accordance with 31 December 2004 to the balance sheet for early application but have not been applied International Financial Reporting Standards at 1 January 2005 to reflect the adoption by the Group in these financial statements.
IFRSs issued by the International of IAS 32 and IAS 39 is also included in Accounting Standards Board as adopted IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures this note, along with explanations of key by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
These annual applicable for years commencing on or after differences.
financial statements of the Group have been 1 January 2007.
The application of IFRS 7 in The preparation of the consolidated financial prepared in accordance with Adopted IFRSs.
2005 would not have affected the results or statements in conformity with Adopted IFRSs net assets as the standard is concerned only The Company has elected to prepare its requires management to make judgements, with disclosure.
The Group plans to adopt it parent company financial statements in estimates and assumptions that affect the in 2007. accordance with UK GAAP.
The parent application of policies and reported amounts company financial statements are presented The Group has not adopted amendments of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
on pages 132 to 138. to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 in relation to financial The estimates and associated assumptions are guarantee contracts which will apply for based on historical experience and various c Transitional arrangements periods commencing on or after 1 January other factors that are believed to be On transition to IFRS, an entity is required 2006. reasonable under the circumstances, the to apply IFRS retrospectively, except where results of which form the basis of making the Where the Group enters into financial an exemption is available for adoption judgements about carrying amounts of assets guarantee contracts to guarantee the under IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of and liabilities that are not readily apparent indebtedness of other companies within its International Financial Reporting Standards.
Actual results may differ group, the Group considers these to be The impact of the transition from UK GAAP from these estimates.
insurance arrangements, and accounts for to Adopted IFRSs is explained in note 42. them as such.
In this respect, the Group The estimates and underlying assumptions The following is a summary of the key treats the guarantee contract as a are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions IFRS 1 elections made by the Group: contingent liability until such time as it to accounting estimates are recognised in i The Group has elected to apply the becomes probable that the Group will be the period in which the estimates are revised IFRS 1 exemption, in relation to required to make a payment under the if the revision affects only that period, or in business combinations, to apply guarantee.
the period of the revision and future periods IFRS 3 Business Combinations if the revision affects both current and future The Group does not expect the prospectively from 1 January 2004. periods.
Judgements and estimates made by amendments to have any impact on the As a result, the carrying amount management that have a significant effect on financial statements for the period of goodwill under UK GAAP at the consolidated financial statements are commencing 1 January 2006.
31 December 2003 is the deemed discussed in note 41. cost of goodwill at 1 January 2004 e Basis of preparation for Adopted IFRS purposes.
f Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements The consolidated financial statements ii The Group has elected to adopt the have been prepared on the historical cost incorporate the financial statements of the IFRS 1 option which permits the basis, except for certain derivative financial Company and entities controlled by the cumulative foreign currency translation instruments, financial instruments held for Company its subsidiaries up to reserve to be deemed zero at 1 January trading, financial instruments classified as 31 December each year.
Control is achieved 2004. available for sale, which are carried at where the Company has the power to govern fair value, and the property, plant and iii With respect to pension schemes the the financial and operating policies of an equipment of the Groups US operations at Group has elected to recognise the investee entity so as to obtain benefits from 1 January 2004 which were held at deemed schemes surpluses and deficits in its activities.
In assessing control, the potential cost, being fair value on adoption of IFRS.
full as at 1 January 2004, with a voting rights that are currently exercisable or corresponding adjustment to reserves.
The principal accounting policies adopted are convertible are taken into account.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued changes in fair values translated at exchange rates prevailing on the of the forward contracts are taken to balance sheet date.
Income and expense On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and the income statement in the period.
items are translated at the average exchange contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are rates for the period which approximates to measured at their fair values at the date Other power plants sell their output under actual rates.
Exchange differences arising, if of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of long-term power purchase agreements any, are classified as equity and transferred to acquisition over the fair values of the PPAs.
Under such arrangements it is usual the Groups translation reserve.
Such identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as for the Group to receive payment for the translation differences are recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost provision of electrical capacity whether or not income or as expenses in the period in which of acquisition below the fair values of the the offtaker requests the electrical output the operation is disposed.
identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on capacity payments and for the variable costs acquisition is credited to the income statement of production energy payments.
In such Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising in the period of acquisition.
The interest of situations, revenue is recognised in respect on the acquisition of a foreign entity are minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys of capacity payments as: treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign proportion of the fair values of the assets and entity and translated at the closing rate.
i finance income in accordance with liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, any losses Exchange differences arising from the note 1 p where the PPA is applicable to the minority interest in excess of translation of the net investment in foreign considered to be or to contain the minority interest are allocated against the operations and of related hedges are taken to a finance lease: interests of the parent, except when there is a the translation reserve.
They are released to ii as operating lease rentals, on a straightbinding obligation to fund those losses and the the income statement upon disposal.
In minority is in a position to do so.
line basis in accordance with note 1 p respect of foreign operations, any differences where the PPA is considered to be or that have arisen before 1 January 2004, the The results of subsidiaries acquired or to contain an operating lease: or date of transition to IFRS, are presented as disposed of during the year are included part of retained earnings.
iii as revenue in accordance with the in the consolidated income statement from when control commences or up to when contractual terms, to the extent that the i Goodwill control ceases, as appropriate.
capacity has been made available to the Goodwill arising on consolidation represents contracted offtaker during the period.
Where necessary, adjustments are made the excess of the cost of acquisition over Under lease arrangements, those payments to the financial statements of subsidiaries the Groups interest in the fair value of the to bring the accounting policies used into which are not included within minimum identifiable assets and liabilities and contingent line with those used by the Group.
lease payments are accounted for as liabilities of a subsidiary, joint venture or revenue outlined in iii above.
associate at the date of acquisition.
All intra-group transactions, balances, Energy payments under PPAs are income and expenses are eliminated on Goodwill is recognised as an asset and consolidation.
recognised in revenue as energy sales in all reviewed for impairment annually and when cases as the contracted power is delivered.
there are indications of impairment.
Any g Revenue recognition impairment is recognised immediately in Where the PPAs extend over more than one Certain power plants sell their output in the income statement and is not accounting period, revenue for energy sales merchant markets, where electricity is sold subsequently reversed.
is recognised in each accounting period at through existing power exchanges, pool the fair value of the Groups performance On disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture arrangements or through bilateral contracts under the contract in each period.
or associate, the attributable amount of with third parties.
In these markets, revenue goodwill is included in the determination Liquidated damages LDs, in respect of from energy sales is either recorded at the of the profit or loss on disposal.
spot price obtained through pool or spot late commissioning, are included in other mechanisms when the electrical output is operating income.
Proprietary trading Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the delivered or as set out below, when electricity income is recognised on the basis of date of transition to IFRSs has been retained completed contracts and the mark to is delivered in accordance with the terms of at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to any related hedging or forward contracts.
market value of outstanding contracts at being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK i Because power is a non-financial item, GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated forward contracts entered into and h Foreign currencies and is not included in determining any which continue to be held for the Foreign currency monetary assets and subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
purpose of delivery and sale of power liabilities are translated at the rate of generated by our own power plants exchange at the balance sheet date.
j Other intangible assets known as own use contracts can be Foreign currency non-monetary items Emission allowances An intangible asset is accounted for under accruals measured in terms of historical cost are accounting, i. e. revenue for energy recognised on receipt of allocated emission translated at the rate of exchange at the sales is recognised as output is allowances and recorded at the fair value on date of the transaction.
Exchange differences delivered in accordance with the allocation.
The fair value of the grant is also on monetary items are dealt with in the recognised on receipt and deducted from the forward contract.
Exchange differences on value of the intangible asset.
As a result no ii All other forward contracts, which non-monetary items are recognised in line net asset or liability is shown on the balance are considered to be derivatives and with whether the gain or loss on the nonsheet at initial recognition.
As emission do not qualify for own use, are monetary item itself is recognised in the allowances are utilised they are charged to income statement or in equity.
recognised at fair value with changes in the income statement within costs of sales.
fair value recorded in the income In order to hedge its exposure to certain To the extent that these allowances were statement.
Where possible, the Group foreign exchange risks, the Group enters received by way of grant a corresponding applies cash flow hedge accounting so into forward contracts and options refer credit is also booked to cost of sales.
that changes in fair values are deferred to note 1 o, the accounting policy on in a hedging reserve within equity and Emission allowances are recognised at cost derivative financial instruments for details of only reclassified to earnings when the when purchased.
Forward contracts for sales the Groups accounting policies in respect hedged transaction affects earnings.
In and purchases of emission allowances are of such derivative financial instruments.
At the balance sheet addition, to the extent that there is The net assets of the Groups overseas ineffectiveness in the cash flow hedge date the net carrying amount of emission accounting of forward contracts, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are allowances held is compared with the fair Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 85 value to assess for impairment.
Project development costs are principally n Impairment of assets excluding incurred in identifying and developing goodwill A provision is made for the estimated investment opportunities and typically At each balance sheet date, the Group shortfall between emission allowances include feasibility studies, pre-bid costs, reviews the carrying amounts of its held and the anticipated requirement and legal, professional and other related property, plant and equipment, other is charged to the income statement on a advisory costs.
These costs including intangible assets and those other pro-rata basis according to current and appropriate direct internal costs are investments measured at cost, to determine expected future emissions throughout the recognised as expenses as incurred, except whether there is any indication that those accounting period based on the market that directly attributable costs are assets have suffered an impairment loss.
capitalised when it is virtually certain that If any such indication exists, the recoverable the project will proceed to completion and amount of the asset is estimated in order Commodity contracts In the money income will be realised.
Such capitalised costs to determine the extent of the impairment commodity contracts, acquired in business are amortised over the life of the related loss, if any.
combinations, which qualify as either own property or contract.
use contracts or non derivatives in Recoverable amount is the higher of fair accordance with IAS 39 are classified as value less costs to sell and value in use.
l Investments in joint ventures intangible assets and carried at cost less In assessing value in use, the estimated and associates accumulated amortisation and impairment future cash flows are discounted to their A joint venture is an entity over whose losses refer to accounting policy note 1 n present value using a pre-tax discount rate activities the Group has joint control, where cost represents fair value at the that reflects current market assessments established by contractual agreement.
The intangible asset is then of the time value of money and the risks amortised on a systematic basis in An associate is an entity over which the specific to the asset for which the estimates accordance with the pattern in which the Group is in a position to exercise significant of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
future economic benefits of the contract is influence, but not control or joint control, If the recoverable amount of an asset or expected to be consumed by the entity.
through participation in the financial and cash-generating unit is estimated to be less operating policy decisions of the investee.
k Property, plant and equipment than its carrying amount, the carrying Property, plant and equipment are stated at The results, assets and liabilities of joint amount of the asset or cash-generating original cost less accumulated depreciation ventures and associates are incorporated in unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
and any provision for impairment in value.
these financial statements using the equity An impairment loss is recognised as an The property, plant and equipment of the method of accounting except when classified expense immediately.
Groups US operations which had been as held for sale.
The results are presented At each balance sheet date, an assessment revalued to fair value on 1 January 2004, after interest, tax and minority interests.
is made to determine whether there is any the date of transition to Adopted IFRSs, are Investments in joint ventures and associates indication that an impairment loss recognised measured on the basis of deemed cost, are carried in the balance sheet at cost as in prior periods may no longer exist or has being the revalued amount at the date adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the decreased.
Where such an indication exists, of that revaluation.
In the case of assets Groups share of the net assets of the joint an impairment loss is reversed to the extent constructed by the Group, related works, venture or associate, less any impairment in that the assets carrying value does not commissioning and borrowing costs as the value of individual investments.
Losses exceed the carrying amount that would defined under IAS 23 Borrowing costs of the joint ventures and associates in excess have been determined, net of depreciation refer to accounting policy note 1 u are of the Groups interest in those joint or amortisation, if no impairment loss had included in cost.
Assets in the course of ventures and associates are not recognised been recognised.
construction are included in property, plant unless the Group has a legal or constructive and equipment on the basis of expenditure obligation to fund those losses.
o Derivative financial instruments incurred at the balance sheet date.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over for year ended 31 December 2005 Depreciation is calculated so as to writethe Groups share of the fair values of the As stated previously, in accordance with down the cost of property, plant and identifiable net assets of the joint venture IFRS 1, the Group has applied the accounting equipment to its residual value evenly over or associate at the date of acquisition is requirements of IAS 32 and IAS 39 its estimated useful life.
Estimated useful recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of prospectively with effect from 1 January 2005, lives are reviewed periodically, taking into the cost of acquisition below the Groups with no restatement of comparatives.
account commercial and technological share of the fair values of the identifiable As explained in note 1 g, the Groups obsolescence as well as normal wear and net assets of the joint venture or associate operating activities expose it to price risks tear, provision being made where the at the date of acquisition i. e. discount on associated with selling its generation output.
carrying value may not be recoverable.
acquisition is credited to the income The Group is also exposed to price risks statement in the period of acquisition.
The depreciation charge is based on the associated with the purchase of its fuel following estimates of useful lives: Where a Group company transacts with a requirements and to financial risks of changes joint venture or associate of the Group, in foreign currency exchange rates and interest Years profits and losses are eliminated to the rates.
The Group uses a range of derivative extent of the Groups interest in the relevant instruments, including energy based futures Civil works 25-80 joint venture or associate.
Losses may and forward contracts, swaps and options to provide evidence of an impairment of the hedge its risk to changes in power prices, fuel Power stations 20-60 asset transferred in which case appropriate costs, foreign exchange rates and interest Fixtures, fittings, tools provision is made for impairment.
Derivative financial instruments are used and equipment 3-10 for hedging purposes apart from energy m Other investments based futures contracts, some of which are Computer equipment Other investments consist of available for and software 3-5 used for proprietary trading purposes.
sale investments in equity instruments Combined cycle gas turbine The use of financial derivatives is governed which are measured at market prices where CCGT hot gas path parts, by the Groups risk management policies available.
Where quoted market prices in an on average 2-4 approved by the Board of Directors, which active market are not available, and where provide written principles on the use of Leasehold improvements Life of lease fair value cannot be reliably measured, financial derivatives consistent with the unquoted equity instruments are measured Groups risk management strategy.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued risks and characteristics are not closely the agreement result in the continued related to those of the host contract and recognition of property, plant and Derivative financial instruments are the host contract is not carried at fair value.
equipment, rather than a finance lease recognised initially, and subsequently, at fair receivable, which is depreciated over its value.
The gain or loss on subsequent fair Any unrealised gains or losses on such economic life.
value measurement is normally recognised separated derivatives are reported in net in the income statement unless the income.
The amounts due from lessees under derivative qualifies for hedge accounting finance leases are recorded in the balance Derivative financial instruments for when recognition of any resultant gain or sheet as financial assets, classified as finance year ended 31 December 2004 The loss depends on the nature of the item lease receivables, at the amount of the net Group has taken advantage of the exemption being hedged see below.
investment in the lease after making within IFRS 1.36A which allows the Group provision for bad and doubtful debts.
not to comply with IAS 32 and IAS 39 in Cash flow hedges Changes in the fair the presentation of comparative information Operating leases Group as lessor value of derivative financial instruments that within this first set of IFRS financial statements An operating lease is any lease other than are designated and effective as hedges of and to apply UK GAAP in the presentation a finance lease.
Thus where the Group future cash flows are recognised directly in of comparative information relating to determines a long-term PPA to be or to equity and the ineffective portion which financial instruments within the scope of contain a lease, and where the Group retains does not meet the hedge accounting FRS 4.
In relation to the presentation and the principal risks and rewards of ownership requirements of IAS 39 is recognised preparation of 2004 comparatives the of the power plant, the arrangement is immediately in the income statement.
Groups policy was as follows.
Amounts accumulated in equity are The Group uses a range of derivative For operating leases, the power plant is recycled to the income statement in the instruments, including energy based futures capitalised as property, plant and equipment period in which the hedged item also and forward contracts, swaps and options to and depreciated over its economic life.
However, if hedge its risk to changes in power prices, fuel the hedged item results in the recognition Rental income from operating leases is costs, foreign exchange rates and interest of a non-financial asset or liability, the recognised on a straight-line basis over the rates.
Derivative financial instruments are amounts accumulated in equity are term of the arrangement.
used for hedging purposes apart from transferred from equity and included in the Operating leases Group as lessee energy based futures contracts, some of initial measurement of the cost of the asset which are used for proprietary trading Rentals payable under operating leases are or liability.
Interest differentials on derivative charged to income on a straight-line basis Hedge accounting is discontinued when the instruments are charged to the income over the term of the relevant lease.
hedging instrument expires or is sold, statement as interest costs in the period to Benefits received and receivable as an terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies which they relate.
incentive to enter into an operating lease for hedge accounting.
At that time, for Only energy based futures contracts used are also spread on a straight-line basis over forecast transactions, any cumulative gain or for proprietary trading purposes are marked the lease term.
loss on the hedging instrument recognised to market using externally derived market in equity is retained in equity until the q Inventories prices with subsequent movements in the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a fair value being reflected in the income Plant spares, operating stocks of fuel and hedged transaction is no longer expected statement.
consumables are valued at the lower of cost to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss and net realisable value.
Cost comprises recognised in equity is transferred to the direct materials and, where applicable, p Leasing income statement.
A lease is defined as an agreement whereby direct labour costs and those overheads Changes in the fair value of derivative the lessor conveys to the lessee, in return that have been incurred in bringing the financial instruments that do not qualify for for a payment or a series of payments, the inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is calculated using the hedge accounting are recognised in the right to use a specific asset for an agreed income statement as they arise.
The definition can include weighted average method.
arrangements such as long-term PPAs, Fair value hedges For an effective hedge where power plants are specifically r Cash and cash equivalents of an exposure to changes in the fair value, Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank designated to fulfill the requirements of balances and cash held by the Group and the hedged item is adjusted for changes in an agreement.
fair value attributable to the risk being short-term deposits with an original maturity Finance leases Group as lessor hedged with the corresponding entry in net of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts Where the Group determines a long-term income.
Gains or losses from remeasuring that are repayable on demand and form PPA to be or to contain a lease, and where part of the Groups cash management are the derivative, or for non-derivatives, the the offtaker has the principal risks and foreign currency component of its carrying included as a component of cash and cash rewards of ownership of the power plant amount, are recognised in net income.
equivalents for the purpose of the cash through its contractual arrangements with flow statement.
Hedge of a net investment in a foreign the Group, the arrangement is considered operation Hedges of net investments in a finance lease.
As discussed in note 1 g, s Loans and bonds foreign operations are accounted for on a capacity payments are apportioned between New loans and bonds are stated at net similar basis to cash flow hedges.
Effective capital repayments relating to the provision of proceeds received after deduction of issue gains or losses on the hedge are recognised the plant, finance income and energy sales.
The issue costs of debt instruments in equity, with ineffective gains or losses The finance income element of the capacity are charged to the income statement over recognised in the income statement.
payment is recognised as revenue, using a the life of the instrument at a constant rate Cumulative gains or losses in equity are rate of return specific to the plant to give a of return on the carrying amount.
taken to the income statement on disposal constant periodic rate of return on the net of the foreign operation.
The energy sales t Convertible bonds element of the capacity payment is Convertible bonds are regarded as Embedded derivatives Derivatives recognised as revenue as it is earned.
embedded in other financial instruments compound instruments, consisting of a or other non-financial host contracts are liability component and an equity Arrangements that do not convey the right component.
At the date of issue, the fair treated as separate derivatives when their to use a specific asset through the term of Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 87 value of the liability component is estimated x Environmental liabilities deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
using the prevailing market interest rate for Provision for environmental liabilities is Deferred tax assets and deferred tax similar non-convertible debt.
The difference made when expenditure on remedial work liabilities are only offset to the extent that between the proceeds of issue of the is probable and the Group is obliged, either there is a legally enforceable right to offset convertible bonds and the fair value assigned legally or constructively through its current tax assets and current tax liabilities, to the liability component, representing the environmental policies, to undertake such they relate to taxes levied by the same embedded option to convert the liability into work.
Where the amount is expected to be taxation authority and the Group intends to equity of the Group, is included in equity.
incurred over the long-term, the amount settle its current tax assets and liabilities on recognised is the present value of the Issue costs are apportioned between the a net basis.
estimated future expenditure and the liability and equity components of the unwinding of the discount is included within z Pension schemes convertible bonds based on their relative finance costs.
carrying amounts at the date of issue.
Payments to defined contribution pension The portion relating to the equity component plans are charged as an expense as they fall y Tax is charged directly against equity.
Payments made to state managed The tax expense represents the sum of the defined benefit pension plans are dealt with The interest expense on the liability expected tax payable on taxable income for as payments to defined contribution plans component is calculated by applying the the year and deferred tax.
Taxable profit where the Groups obligations under the prevailing market interest rate for similar differs from accounting profit, as reported plans are equivalent to those arising in a non-convertible debt to the liability in the income statement, because it defined contribution pension plan.
The excludes items of income or expense that difference between this amount and the are taxable or deductible in other years and For defined benefit pension plans, the cost interest paid is added to the carrying it further excludes items that are never of providing benefits is determined using amount of the convertible bond.
The Groups liability the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at for current tax is calculated using tax rates u Borrowing costs that have been enacted or substantively each balance sheet date.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the enacted by the balance sheet date.
The corridor method is applied in acquisition, construction or production of Deferred tax is the tax expected to be recognising actuarial gains and losses.
qualifying assets, which are assets that Gains and losses in an individual scheme payable or recoverable on differences necessarily take a substantial period of time to between the carrying amounts of assets are recognised to the extent they exceed be prepared for their intended use or sale, are and liabilities in the financial statements the greater of 10% of the gross assets or added to the cost of those assets, until such and the corresponding tax bases used in gross liabilities of the scheme.
The amount time as the assets are substantially ready for recognised in the following year is the the computation of taxable profit, and their intended use or sale.
Investment income is accounted for using the balance sheet excess amortised over the remaining earned on the temporary investment of liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities average service lives of the employees specific borrowings pending their expenditure are generally recognised for all taxable in the scheme and is recognised in the on qualifying assets is deducted from the income statement.
temporary differences and deferred tax borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
assets are recognised to the extent that The net defined benefit obligation All other borrowing costs are recognised in it is probable that taxable profits will be recognised in the balance sheet represents net income in the period in which they are available against which deductible the present value of the defined benefit incurred.
temporary differences can be utilised.
obligations adjusted for unrecognised Such assets and liabilities are not recognised actuarial gains and losses and unrecognised v Provisions if the temporary difference arises from service costs and as reduced by the fair Provisions are recognised when the Group goodwill, not deductible for tax purposes, value of the plan assets.
Any asset resulting has a present obligation as a result of a past or from the initial recognition other than in from this calculation is limited to event, and it is probable that the Group will a business combination of other assets and unrecognised actuarial losses and past be required to settle that obligation.
liabilities in a transaction that affects neither service cost plus the present value of Provisions are measured at the Directors the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
available refunds and reductions in future best estimate of the expenditure required contributions to the plan.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for to settle the obligation at the balance sheet taxable temporary differences arising on date, and are discounted to present value investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures aa Share-based payments where the effect is material.
Where the Group is able to The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equitycontrol the reversal of the temporary w Decommissioning costs settled share-based payments are measured difference and it is probable that the Provision is made for the estimated temporary difference will not reverse in at fair value excluding the effect of non decommissioning costs at the end of the the foreseeable future, no deferred tax market-based vesting conditions at the useful economic life of the Groups power date of grant.
The fair value determined at liability is recognised.
stations and generating assets, if and when the date of grant of the equity-settled a legal or constructive obligation arises, The carrying amount of deferred tax assets share-based payments is expensed on a on a discounted basis.
The amount provided is reviewed at each balance sheet date and straight-line basis over the vesting period, represents the present value of the reduced to the extent that it is no longer based on the Groups estimate of the expected costs.
An amount equivalent to probable that sufficient taxable profits will shares that will eventually vest and where the initial provision is capitalised within be available to allow all or part of the asset applicable, adjusted for the effect of non property, plant and equipment and is to be recovered.
depreciated over the useful lives of the Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates related assets.
The unwinding of the Fair value is measured using the Blackthat are expected to apply in the period discount is included within finance costs.
The expected life when the liability is settled or the asset Where there is a subsequent change in used in the model has been adjusted, based is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or estimates of decommissioning costs, the on managements best estimate, for the credited in the income statement, except present value of the change is recognised effects of non-transferability, any exercise when it relates to items charged or credited in the income statement.
directly to equity, in which case the
