Independent auditors report to the members of Interserve Plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 We have audited the individual Company accounts and notes of Interserve Basis of audit opinion Plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the balance We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards sheet and the related notes 33 to 48.
These individual company accounts on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
and notes have been prepared under the accounting policies set out An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant therein.
to the amounts and disclosures in the individual Company accounts and notes.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and The corporate governance statement and the directors remuneration judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the individual report are included in the Group annual report of Interserve Plc for Company accounts and notes, and of whether the accounting policies the year ended 31 December 2005.
We have reported separately are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and on the Group accounts and notes of Interserve Plc for the year adequately disclosed.
ended 31 December 2005 and on the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the individual accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work Company accounts and notes are free from material misstatement, has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not information in the individual Company accounts and notes.
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Opinion or for the opinions we have formed.
In our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the individual Company accounts and notes give a true and fair view, The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting individual Company accounts and notes in accordance with applicable law Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom 2005: and Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
the individual Company accounts and notes have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Our responsibility is to audit the individual Company accounts and notes in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the individual Company accounts and notes give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework and whether the individual Company accounts and notes have been properly prepared in accordance Deloitte & Touche LLP with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you if the directors report is Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors not consistent with the individual Company accounts and notes, if the London, United Kingdom Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received 13 March 2006 all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the directors report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the individual Company accounts and notes.
