8185 Intertek AR p72 76 KM 01 03. qxp 3 3 06 1:32 pm Page 75 Corporate and Shareholder Information Shareholders Enquiries and Electronic Communications Share dealing service www.
co. uk A share dealing service for the purchase of sale of shares in Intertek Any shareholders with enquiries relating to their shareholding should, is available through Cazenove & Co, whose details are as follows: in the first instance, contact Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Cazenove & Co postal service Shareholders who would prefer to view documentation electronically 20 Moorgate can elect to receive automatic notification by e-mail each time the London Company distributes documents, instead of receiving a paper version EC2R 6DA of such documents, by registering a request at the Lloyds TSB Registrars Telephone 44 20 7155 5155 website, www.
ShareGift There is no fee for using this service and you will automatically receive The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation confirmation that a request has been registered.
Should you wish to scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares whose value makes change your mind or request a paper version of any document in the it uneconomic to sell them.
Details of the scheme are available from: future, you may do so by contacting the Registrar by e-mail or by post.
co. uk, you will need to have your Telephone 44 20 7337 0501. shareholder reference available when you first log in, which may be found on your dividend voucher, share certificate or form of proxy.
Share price information Information on the Companys share price is available from the The facility also allows shareholders to view their holding details, Investor Relations pages of www.
com, and from the UK find out how to register a change of name or what to do if a share via the FT Cityline Service certificate is lost, as well as download forms in respect of changes Telephone 0906 003 2361 of address, dividend mandates and share transfers.
calls are charged at 60p per minute at all times.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2005 75
