Accounting policies The Company is unable to separately identify its share of the Basis of accounting underlying assets and liabilities of the Groups defined benefit These accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention schemes to which it participates on a consistent and reasonable and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
basis and therefore accounts for these schemes as a defined The policies are consistent with the previous year.
contribution scheme, in accordance with the provisions of FRS 17.
Implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the profit The Group will implement International Financial Reporting and loss account in respect of pension costs is the contributions Standards IFRS, also known as International Accounting Standards payable in the year.
Differences between contributions payable in with effect from 1 April 2005, as required under European the year and contributions actually paid are shown either as accruals legislation.
The transition date for adoption of IFRS has been or prepayments in the balance sheet.
determined in accordance with IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of Further information on pensions and post-retirement benefits is International Financial Reporting Standards, as 1 April 2004. disclosed in note 6.
Basis of consolidation Goodwill The consolidated profit and loss account and balance sheet On acquisition, the fair value of net assets is assessed and incorporate the accounts of Invensys plc and its subsidiary adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies of businesses undertakings together with the Groups share of the results of acquired into alignment with those of the Group.
The difference associated undertakings for the financial year to 31 March 2005. between the price paid for new interests and the fair value of The results of subsidiary undertakings sold or acquired during the identifiable net assets acquired is capitalised and amortised over its year are included in the profit and loss account up to, or from, economic life, depending on the nature of the acquisition, for a the date control passes.
Any costs of integrating the acquired business are taken to the profit and loss account.
Goodwill is Foreign currencies currently amortised over a period of 12 to 20 years.
The trading results of overseas subsidiaries and associated undertakings are translated into sterling at average rates of Goodwill relating to acquisitions prior to 5 April 1998, the date exchange ruling during the year.
The retranslation of the retained that FRS 10, Goodwill and Intangible Assets became applicable to earnings of overseas operations to closing rates is dealt with as a the Group, has been written off to reserves.
Goodwill previously movement in reserves.
eliminated against reserves is charged to the profit and loss account Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries, including goodwill, are in so far as it relates to closures and disposals in the year.
translated into sterling at closing rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and any exchange differences are taken to reserves.
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are depreciated to their residual values on a Currency differences arising from the translation at closing rate straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives at the following of the investment in subsidiaries and associated undertakings are rates applied to original cost: taken to reserves, together with exchange gains and losses arising on foreign currency borrowings which finance foreign currency Freehold land Nil investments.
Freehold buildings 2 to 2.5% All other exchange differences are included in the profit and loss Leasehold properties Over the period of the lease account for the year.
Plant and machinery 7 to 35% Computer software systems 10 to 25% Turnover Turnover represents the invoiced value of goods supplied by the Impairment of tangible fixed assets and goodwill Group excluding inter-company transactions, sales by associated Impairment reviews are undertaken if there are indications that undertakings and sales taxes.
Turnover relating to long-term fixed asset carrying values may not be recoverable.
The discount contracts represents the value of work performed during the year.
rate used is the Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital, as adjusted for the particular risks associated with the incomeResearch and development generating unit concerned.
Research and development expenditure is expensed as incurred.
Leased assets Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in The service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees tangible fixed assets at fair value.
Each asset is depreciated over the during the year is charged to operating profit or loss in the year.
shorter of the lease term or its useful life.
Obligations related to The full cost of providing amendments to benefits in respect of past finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, service is also charged to operating profit or loss in the year.
The are included as appropriate within creditors.
The interest element of expected return on the assets of the schemes during the year based the rental obligation is allocated to accounting periods during the on the market value of scheme assets at the start of the financial lease term to reflect a constant rate of interest on the remaining year is included within other finance charges income FRS 17. balance of the obligation for each accounting period.
Rentals under This also includes a charge representing the expected increase in operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a liabilities of the schemes during the year, arising from the liabilities straight-line basis.
of the scheme being one year closer to payment.
Differences between actual and expected returns on assets during the year are Investments in subsidiary undertakings recognised in the statement of recognised gains and losses in the Investments in subsidiary undertakings are held at cost less year, together with differences from changes in assumptions.
The provisions for impairment where a permanent diminution in value net deficit on defined benefit pension schemes is reported on the has been identified.
balance sheet within the pension liability.
This is net of related deferred tax.
Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2005 41 Accounting policies continued Stocks Derivative instruments Stocks and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost and The Group primarily uses forward foreign currency contracts and estimated net realisable value.
Cost comprises the cost of raw interest rate swaps to manage its exposures to fluctuations in materials and an appropriate proportion of labour and overheads.
interest and foreign exchange rates.
These instruments are Provision is made for obsolete and slow-moving items and for accounted for as hedges when designated as hedges at the inception unrealised profits on items of inter-company manufacture.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for financial trading purposes.
The net realisable value of long-term contracts has been arrived at Interest rate swaps having regard to estimated cost to completion.
A prudent level of Interest rate swaps are revalued to fair value for disclosure in note 27. profit attributable to the contract activity is taken up if the final They are not shown on the consolidated balance sheet.
Interest outcome of such contracts can be reliably assessed.
On all contracts, payments and receipts are accrued and included in net interest full provision is made for any losses in the year in which they are payable as an adjustment of the interest expense of the designated first foreseen.
Cash and borrowings Foreign exchange swaps and forwards Cash and short-term deposits at the balance sheet date are Where foreign exchange swaps and forwards are used to adjust the deducted from bank loans and overdrafts where formal rights of currency profile of net borrowings which are matched to net assets set-off exist.
of subsidiaries, realised and unrealised gains and losses are taken directly to reserves.
Where foreign exchange forwards are used to Taxation hedge foreign currency trade debtors and creditors, realised and Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that unrealised gains and losses are recognised in the profit and loss have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where account.
Where the instrument is used to hedge against future transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in transactions, gains and losses are not recognised until the an obligation to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, in the transaction occurs.
future, with the following exceptions: Debt instruments i Provision is made for tax on gains arising from fair value Borrowings are stated at net proceeds received after deduction of adjustments of fixed assets or gains on disposal of fixed assets that issue costs.
The issue costs of debt instruments are amortised at a have been rolled over into replacement assets only to the extent constant rate on the carrying amount of the related debt, over the that, at the balance sheet date, there is a binding agreement to life of the instrument.
dispose of the assets concerned.
However, no provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to tax only where the replacement assets are sold.
ii Provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable.
iii Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
42 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2005
