Transition to International Financial Reporting Standards Under IAS 38, intangible assets will be amortised over their useful Companies listed on security exchanges within the European Union lives, which for current projects are between five and 10 years.
EU are required under European legislation to adopt International The Group does not expect any of its intangible assets to have Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for accounting periods indefinite useful lives.
beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
The adoption of IFRS will first apply to the Groups financial statements with effect from 1 April IAS 32 and IAS 39, Financial Instruments 2005.
The Group, therefore, will present its consolidated quarterly The Group enters into derivative instruments to limit its exposure and full year financial results for the year ended 31 March 2006 in to interest rate and foreign exchange risk.
Under UK GAAP, these accordance with IFRS.
instruments are measured at cost and accounted for as hedges, whereby gains and losses are deferred until the underlying The transition date for adoption of IFRS is 1 April 2004, determined transaction occurs.
Under IFRS, derivative instruments are in accordance with IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International recognised on the balance sheet at fair value.
In order to achieve Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 1. hedge accounting under IFRS, certain criteria must be met regarding documentation, designation and effectiveness of the hedge.
When a During 2004 05 the Group undertook a project, overseen by derivative is used to hedge the change in fair value of a recognised an IFRS Steering Committee and reporting regularly to the Audit asset, liability or firm commitment, the change in fair value of both Committee, to manage and implement the transition to IFRS.
This the hedging instrument and the hedged item are recognised in the involved an analysis of each standard to identify the differences income statement when they occur.
For a hedge of changes in the between the Groups existing accounting policies under UK GAAP future cash flows relating to a recognised asset, liability or probable and IFRS, the effect on the reporting process and the system forecast transaction, the change in fair value of the hedging changes required.
The additional data required to restate the instrument is recognised in equity until those future cash flows occur.
Groups results and its financial position in accordance with IFRS with effect from the transition date has been collected and the The Group will apply IAS 32 and IAS 39 for the first time for the ongoing reporting and consolidation systems are being modified year ended 31 March 2006.
As permitted by the transitional to meet IFRS requirements.
exemption available under IFRS 1, IAS 32 and IAS 39 will not be applied to the comparative information presented in those financial The assessment of the impact of the transition to IFRS is based statements which will be prepared on the existing UK GAAP basis.
on all International Financial Reporting Standards, including International Accounting Standards IAS and interpretations issued IAS 21, The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and its Under UK GAAP the Group has been able to designate external committees, published by 31 March 2005.
These are subject to foreign currency borrowings held by holding companies in the ongoing review and amendment by the IASB and subsequent United Kingdom as a hedge of foreign currency denominated assets endorsement by the European Commission and therefore may including goodwill previously written off to reserves.
Further standards and interpretations may also be issued foreign exchange gains and losses on the borrowings were matched that will become applicable for the Groups financial year ending against the gains and losses on the assets and recognised in reserves.
The IFRS in force at the time the Group prepares Goodwill previously written off to reserves is not recognised as a its first IFRS financial statements may, therefore, require different qualifying asset under IFRS, and is therefore not available to offset accounting policies from those used for this assessment.
The Group the foreign exchange gains and losses arising on the borrowings.
has assumed that the European Commission will endorse the As a result there will now be exchange differences that will recent amendment to IAS 19, Employee Benefits Actuarial Gains impact the income statement.
These will be disclosed within net and Losses, Group Plans and Disclosures, which allows actuarial finance costs.
gains or losses to be taken directly to reserves as permitted under UK GAAP by FRS 17, Retirement Benefits FRS 17.
Under both IAS 21 and UK GAAP, foreign exchange gains and losses Key changes in accounting under IFRS on intra-group loans are recognised in the income statement unless The differences between UK GAAP and IFRS that have been the loans qualify as part of the Groups net investment in its foreign identified as having the most significant effect on the Groups operations, in which case the exchange differences are recognised reported results are as follows: in reserves.
However, IAS 21 is stricter in defining the criteria that have to be met for a loan to qualify as part of the net investment IAS 38, Intangible Assets in foreign operations.
As a result, some of the Groups intra-group IAS 38 requires the costs incurred on development projects that loans are considered not to meet the IAS 21 criteria for inclusion meet certain criteria to be recognised as intangible assets in the in the net investment in foreign operations, and under IFRS the balance sheet.
The Groups policy under UK GAAP is to expense all gains and losses arising on them will be recognised in the income such costs as they are incurred.
The application of the IAS 38 criteria statement rather than in reserves.
results in the costs of a number of current and recent development projects being recognised as intangible assets in the balance sheet IFRS 3, Business Combinations under IFRS.
However, it has not been possible in all cases to assess Under IFRS 3, goodwill recognised in the balance sheet will no accurately whether costs expensed under UK GAAP prior to the longer be amortised.
Instead it will be tested for impairment at IFRS transition date met the IAS 38 criteria for recognition at the the date of transition to IFRS and annually thereafter, or more time they were incurred.
IFRS does not permit such assessments frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it to be performed retrospectively and with the benefit of hindsight, might be impaired.
so where contemporary records were insufficiently detailed or unavailable it has not been possible to recognise the asset under On the disposal of a business, IFRS does not require any related IAS 38.
Procedures are now in place to monitor research and goodwill previously written off to reserves to be transferred to the development projects against the IAS 38 criteria and recognise income statement.
The recognition in the income statement of their costs as intangible assets when they meet those criteria.
disposals made after the date of transition will be restated to reflect this.
70 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2005 The presentation of the balance sheet under IFRS differs from the The Group will adopt the exemption under IFRS 1 from restating requirements under UK GAAP in a number of respects.
These business combinations prior to the date of transition to IFRS.
include requirements to analyse all assets and liabilities, including The Group will apply IFRS 3 prospectively from IFRS transition.
provisions, between current and non-current: categorise computer No significant business combinations have been undertaken software, treated as tangible fixed assets under UK GAAP, as since the transition date.
intangible assets: and present deferred tax assets separately from deferred tax liabilities, rather than as a single net amount.
Other areas of change IAS 12 requires that deferred taxation is provided on substantially The Group does not propose early adoption of IFRS 5, Non-current all differences between the book and tax bases of assets and Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, ahead of its liabilities except those arising from goodwill that is not deductible effective date which is 1 April 2005 for Invensys.
This is wider than under UK GAAP, which specifically does not permit the recognition of certain timing differences, The adoption of IFRS by EU member states applies only to including those that relate to revaluations where no sale is in process, consolidated financial statements.
Invensys will continue to present or where it is probable that rollover relief or losses will be applied its Company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
The application of IFRS will result in the recognition Consequently Company financial statements will be presented of additional deferred tax balances including those relating to separately from the Group financial statements.
undistributed overseas retained earnings which are intended to be repatriated in the foreseeable future.
Subject to any constraints Other first-time adoption exemptions arising from the legal requirements of those territories, the Group In addition to the first-time adoption exemptions already referred intends to repatriate overseas earnings from territories where to above, the Group will adopt the following optional exemptions overseas funds exist in excess of local operating requirements.
available under IFRS 1: In accordance with IAS 19, Employee Benefits, additional liabilities employee benefits the approach to accounting for actuarial will be recognised on transition for accumulating compensated gains and losses on the Groups pension schemes under IFRS will absences earned as a result of services rendered.
be consistent with UK GAAP, FRS 17.
The corridor approach will not be applied, and gains and losses will be recognised in full as IFRS 2, Share-Based Payment IFRS 2, will require the recognition a reserve movement: and of all share-based payments in the income statement, although cumulative translation differences cumulative translation this will have only a limited impact on the Groups reported results differences on foreign operations will be deemed to be zero at for the year to 31 March 2005.
The charge will be calculated using IFRS transition: only post-transition translation differences will be the Black-Scholes model because of the relatively small number taken to the income statement on the subsequent disposal of a of relevant share options extant.
As permitted by the transitional foreign operation.
exemption available under IFRS 1, the requirements of IFRS 2 will not be applied to equity instruments granted before 7 November 2002 and those vesting before 1 April 2005.
Presentation of the financial statements under IFRS With effect from 1 April 2005 the Group will present its financial statements in accordance with IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 1.
Where IAS 1 does not provide definitive guidance on presentation, for example in relation to aspects of the income statement, the Group proposes to adopt a format consistent with UK GAAP requirements.
This will assist in comparing results with prior years.
Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2005 71
