Shareholder information Financial calendar instead of paper documents in the post.
E-mails will refer to AMEC annual and interim reports, documents relating to our annual general March Preliminary announcement for the year ended 31 December.
April Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December.
meeting and any other shareholder communications and will normally be from our registrar, Capita Registrars.
E-mails will May Annual general meeting.
September Interim report for the half year ended 30 June.
contain links to the appropriate web site where the documents can be viewed.
Interim and preliminary announcements notified to the London Stock Exchange are available on the internet at www.
Copies Shareholders how to register If you are an AMEC shareholder and wish to receive electronic of annual reports and accounts are also available upon written request from: communications, you will need your investor code, which is printed in the bottom right-hand corner of your AMEC share certificates WILink and dividend tax vouchers.
Hook Rise South, Surbiton, Surrey KT6 7LD You must register with Capita Registrars to receive electronic United Kingdom shareholder communications as follows: Payment of dividends 1 Go to www.
com plantatree Interim ordinary dividend announced in September and paid in January.
2 Follow the Shareholders how to register instructions Final ordinary dividend announced in March and paid in July.
Once you confirm your details, Capita Registrars will e-mail you to Shareholders who do not have dividend payments made directly into verify the change.
Every time Capita Registrars receives a shareholder their bank or building society accounts through the Bankers Automated request to switch from paper to e-communications, we will ask Clearing System BACS may do so by contacting the companys The CarbonNeutral Company to plant a tree.
You can opt to return to paper communications at any time by Dividend reinvestment plan amending your details with Capita Registrars.
Shareholders who A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP is available for the convenience decline to register for e-communications will continue to receive of shareholders who would prefer the company to utilise their dividends paper documents.
for the purchase, on their behalf, of additional shares of the company If you have any questions about electronic shareholder communications, instead of receiving cash dividends.
contact Capita Registrars on 44 0 870 162 3100, visit their web site The DRIP provides for shares to be purchased in the market on, or at www.
com or e-mail at ssd@capitaregistrars.
com as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter, any dividend payment date at the price then prevailing in the market.
Further details Electronic shareholder information AMECs web site has a facility whereby shareholders can link to of the DRIP may be obtained from: the companys registrar, Capita Registrars, via its web site in order Capita Registrars to gain access to general shareholder information as well as personal The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU shareholding details.
If you wish to access details of your personal United Kingdom shareholding you will need your investor code, which is printed in Tel: 44 0 870 162 3100 the bottom right-hand corner of your AMEC share certificates and E-mail: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com or visit the web site at dividend tax vouchers.
com To access these services: Electronic communications 1 Select the Investors home page at www.
com Electronic shareholder communication 2 Select Electronic communications from the main menu.
AMEC is working with The CarbonNeutral Company formerly 3 Select the Electronic shareholder services link.
Future Forests to reduce the impact of shareholder communications 4 Follow the instructions at the Capita Registrars web site.
on the environment as well as cutting the cost of printing and If you have any questions about electronic shareholder information, distribution.
For every shareholder that elects to receive communications electronically, AMEC will plant a tree on their behalf contact Capita Registrars on 44 0 870 162 3100, visit their web site at www.
com at the Donkleywood Forest project in Northumberland.
Further information on The CarbonNeutral Company and the Donkleywood Registered office project is available at www.
com pdfs projects AMEC plc .
pdf Sandiway House, Hartford, Northwich, Cheshire CW8 2YA United Kingdom Choosing electronic shareholder information means you will receive an e-mail every time any new shareholder information is published Registered in England No 1675285 AMEC plc annual report 2005 117
