Notice of annual general meeting Notice is hereby given that the annual general meeting of the company will B the authority to allot, given to the directors by this resolution, be in be held at The Crosse Keys, 9 Gracechurch Street, London, EC3V 0DR on substitution for any and all authorities previously conferred on the directors Thursday 10 November 2005 at 10.00am for the following purposes: for the purposes of section 80 of the Act, without prejudice to any allotments made pursuant to the terms of such authorities.
Ordinary business 1 To receive the report of the directors and the audited accounts of the 10 THAT: company for the financial year ended 24 July 2005. conditionally, on the passing of the resolution numbered 9 above and in place of all existing powers, the directors be and are hereby empowered, pursuant 2 To receive and approve the directors remuneration report for the year to section 95 of the Act, to allot equity securities as defined in section 94 2 ended 24 July 2005. of the Act for cash, pursuant to the authority conferred by the resolution numbered 9 above, as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to such 3 To declare a final dividend for the year ended 24 July 2005 of 2.82 pence allotment, such power to expire unless previously varied, revoked or per ordinary share of 2 pence in the capital of the company.
renewed by the company in general meeting at the earlier of 15 months from the date of passing of this resolution and the conclusion of the annual 4 To re-elect Mr Hutson as a director.
general meeting of the company held to approve the report and accounts of the company for the financial year of the company ending on 30 July 2006 5 To re-elect Mr Clarke as a director.
save that the directors shall be entitled, before such expiry, to make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted 6 To re-elect Mrs McMeikan as a director after such expiry, and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement, as if the power conferred by this resolution had 7 To re-appoint  LLP as auditors of the company and not expired and to be limited to: to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
i the allotment of equity securities for cash in connection with or pursuant Special business to an issue or offer, by way of rights, open offer or otherwise in favour of the To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions, in the case holders of equity securities, where the equity securities respectively of the resolutions numbered 8 and 9, as ordinary resolutions and, in the case attributable to the interests of such holders are proportionate as nearly as of the resolutions numbered 10 and 11, as special resolutions.
may be to the respective number of equity securities held by them on the record date for such allotment, subject only to such exceptions, exclusions or 8 THAT: other arrangements which are, in the opinion of the directors, necessary or the J D Wetherspoon plc 2005 Deferred Bonus Scheme the Scheme, the expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems main provisions of which are summarised in Appendix 1 attached, be and is under the laws of any territory or the requirements of any recognised hereby approved and adopted and the directors be and are hereby authorised regulatory body or any other stock exchange or otherwise in any territory: and to take all action deemed necessary to carry the Scheme into effect.
ii the allotment otherwise than as referred to in subparagraph i above of 9 THAT: equity securities for cash, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 172,000.
A the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised, pursuant to section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, to exercise all 11 THAT: or any powers of the company to allot relevant securities as defined in that the company be and is hereby authorised, pursuant to section 166 of the Act, section to such persons, at such times and on such terms as they think to make market purchases as defined by section 163 3 of the Act of proper, up to a maximum nominal amount of 1,150,000 during the period ordinary shares in the capital of the company on such terms and in such the period of authority from the date of the passing of this resolution until manner as the directors of the company shall determine, subject to the the earlier of: following conditions: i 15 months from the date of the passing of this resolution: and i the maximum number of ordinary shares which may be purchased is 25,931,578: ii the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the company held to approve the report and accounts of the company for the financial year of the ii the price at which ordinary shares may be purchased shall not exceed company ending on 30 July 2006: 105% of the average of the middle-market quotations for the ordinary shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five on which date such authority will expire, unless previously varied, revoked or business days preceding the date of purchase and shall not be less than the renewed by the company in general meeting save that, during the period of nominal value, from time to time, of an ordinary share, in both cases authority, the directors shall be entitled to make an offer or agreement which exclusive of expenses: and would or might require relevant securities to be allotted in pursuance of such an offer or agreement, as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired : and ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 37 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING iii this authority unless previously revoked, varied or renewed will expire at Notes: the earlier of the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the company held to approve the report and accounts of the company for the 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the annual general meeting is financial year of the company ending on 30 July 2006 and 30 April 2007, entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead except that the company may, before such authority expires, enter into a of him or her.
A proxy need not be a member of the company.
contract of purchase under which such purchase may be completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiry of the authority.
2 A form of proxy is enclosed which holders of ordinary shares in the company are invited to complete and return in the envelope provided.
By order of the board Completion and return of the form of proxy, in accordance with the instructions on it, will not prevent such shareholders from attending and voting at the annual general meeting in person, should they so wish.
Jim Clarke Company Secretary 3 To be valid for the annual general meeting, the instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is 2 September 2005 executed or a notarially certified copy of such authority must be deposited at the offices of the companys registrars, Computershare Investor Services plc, Registered office: PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 7NH, not later than 10.00am on 8 November 2005, being 48 hours before the time appointed for Wetherspoon House the holding of the annual general meeting.
Central Park Reeds Crescent 4 There are available for inspection at the registered office of the company Watford during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public WD24 4QL holidays excepted and there will be available for inspection at the place of the annual general meeting from at least 15 minutes prior to and until the conclusion of the annual general meeting: a copies of the directors service agreements with the company, other than those agreements expiring or determinable by the company without payment of compensation within one year: b the register of directors interests: and c the rules of the deferred bonus scheme.
5 Only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the company as at 10.00am on 8 November 2005 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after that time will be disregarded in determining the right of any person to attend or vote at the meeting regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Appendix 1 1 Eligibility Under the Scheme, the remuneration committee the committee may make annual bonus awards awards to executive directors and employees of the company and its subsidiaries.
It is currently intended to make awards to executive directors, general managers and certain other senior staff.
Save in exceptional circumstances, no person who becomes an eligible person part of the way through a financial year may be granted an award in respect of that year.
2 Awards The amount of awards shall be dependent on the performance of the company.
The performance criteria and the methodology used to measure performance shall be set by the committee at the time of granting the award.
The amount of an award shall be calculated by the committee, by reference to the performance of the company over the financial year on or around the time of the announcement of the results for that financial period.
If events have occurred which cause the committee to consider that the criteria and methodology chosen at the time of granting the award have become unfair or impracticable, it may, in its discretion, amend them.
38 J D WETHERSPOON PLC NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The performance target, in respect of the awards proposed to be made in forfeitable shares.
The proportion shall normally be calculated by dividing the respect of the financial year ending 30 July 2006, is based on the increase in number of months elapsed from the award of such shares to the date on which cash profits per share.
Cash profits is defined as profit before the tax employment ceased by the number of months elapsed from the award of such excluding exceptional items, after adding back depreciation, deducting deferred shares until their original release date.
Participants who are not good capital invested in existing pubs and deducting corporation tax payable on leavers shall not be entitled to receive any further deferred shares and shall profits before tax before exceptional items.
The committee may, at its discretion, determine that any leaver shall be entitled to receive or retain a higher or lower proportion.
Cash profits for the year to 24 July 2005 were as follows: 000 A good leaver is a person who ceases to be a director or employee of a Profit before taxation before exceptional loss 46,055 group company by reason of injury, disability or redundancy within the Depreciation 48,157 meaning of the Employment Rights Act 1996, retirement at age 65 or any Capital invested in existing pubs 14,173 other age, with the consent of the company or wrongful or unfair dismissal Corporation tax 14,270 by his or her employer as determined by the board or as finally adjudicated by a court or tribunal of competent jurisdiction or for any other reason, if the Cash profits 65,769 committee, in its absolute discretion, so determines.
Average shares in issue 185, 524,467 5 Takeover If there is a takeover before the award date in respect of an award, the participant shall be entitled to an immediate cash payment, but Cash profits per share 35.5 pence shall not be entitled to receive any deferred shares or forfeitable shares.
The amount of the payment shall be determined by the performance criteria and methodology notified to the participant at the time of grant, subject to any For each 1% by which the companys cash profits per share for that year amendments which the committee considers appropriate in the circumstances exceeds its cash profits per share for the previous year, each participant shall including, if appropriate, a reduction in the amount of the award, to reflect be entitled to an amount equal to 2% of his or her basic salary excluding any the proportion of the relevant financial period which has expired.
other bonuses or benefits in kind.
It is anticipated that the maximum award in any one financial year will be 100% of applicable salary.
In the event of a takeover after the award date, all deferred shares shall be transferred to participants as soon as practicable and all forfeitable shares No awards will be made more than 10 years after the date on which the shall cease to be subject to the risk of forfeiture.
Scheme is adopted by the company.
6 Reorganisation If there is a reorganisation before the award date, any 3 Award Shares Awards shall be satisfied by the transfer to the participant award shall be varied in such manner as the committee considers of shares in the company.
The number of shares to which the participant will appropriate, and any deferred shares to which a participant is entitled be entitled the award shares will be equal to the amount of the award as following a reorganisation shall be shares in the new holding company.
determined by the committee by reference to the performance criteria, divided by the market value of a share at that time using the average price If there is a reorganisation after the award date, all rights to receive deferred for the 5 dealing days following the announcement.
30 days after the shares shall be varied to become rights to receive an appropriate number of determination of the amount of the award the award date, one-third of the shares in the new holding company.
award shares to which participants are entitled will be transferred to them.
They will also either a be granted the right to receive a further third of the 7 Variation On any variation of the share capital of the company or any award shares in one years time and the remaining third of the award shares special dividend, the number and or nominal value of any deferred shares in two years time such shares being deferred shares or b be allocated may be varied in such manner as the committee may, in its absolute the remaining two-thirds of the award shares in the form of forfeitable discretion, determine to be fair and reasonable.
shares half of which will cease to be subject to forfeiture after one year and half of which shall cease to be subject to forfeiture after two years.
8 Withholding The rules of the Scheme provide that the company may withhold any amounts or make such arrangements as may be necessary or It is envisaged that all shares required under the Scheme will be purchased desirable to meet any liabilities to tax or National Insurance contributions in the market by an employee benefit trust funded by the company.
arising in respect of participants participation in the Scheme.
The committee may determine that any award shall alternatively be satisfied 9 Assignment Awards under the Scheme shall not be transferable or by payment in cash subject to the deduction of income tax and employee assignable.
10 Amendment The provisions of the Scheme relating to the persons to 4 Termination of Employment Participants who cease to be employed by whom or for whom bonus awards may be made, the maximum entitlement a group company before the award date, in circumstances in which they for any one participant and the basis for determining a participants are good leavers, shall have the amount of their award reduced to reflect entitlement to, and the terms of, shares or other securities, cash or other the proportion of the financial period to which the award relates for which benefits to be provided and for the adjustment thereof if there is a variation they were employed.
If they are not good leavers they shall not be of capital cannot be altered to the advantage of participants, without the entitled to any part of their award.
The committee may, at its discretion, prior approval of shareholders in general meeting except for minor determine that any leaver shall be entitled to receive a higher or lower amendments to benefit the administration of the Scheme, to take account of proportion of his or her award.
a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment of the participants in the Scheme or for the Participants who cease to be employed by a group company after the award company or for members of its group.
date, in circumstances in which they are good leavers, shall be entitled to receive a proportion of their deferred shares or to retain a proportion of their 11 General Benefits under the Scheme will not be pensionable.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 39 Designed by WLG Design Limited Printed by Perivan Group English language advice by www.
co. uk J D Wetherspoon plc Wetherspoon House Central Park Reeds Crescent Watford WD24 4QL Telephone 01923 477777 www.
