Statement of accounting policies For the 53 weeks ended 30 January 2005 The principal Group accounting policies are set out below.
The policies Tangible fixed assets have all been applied consistently throughout the current and preceding Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost, net of depreciation.
is provided using the straight-line method at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset over its expected useful economic life, as follows: Accounting period Every accounting period ends on the Sunday which falls before, but closest Freehold property 40 years to 31 January, resulting in accounting periods of either 52 or 53 weeks.
Short leasehold property Period of lease Plant, fixtures and fittings 5-20 years Basis of accounting The Financial statements are prepared under the historical cost Investments convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
Fixed asset investments are shown at cost, less provision for impairment.
Basis of consolidation Stocks The acquisition method of accounting has been adopted under which the Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Provision results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the is made for obsolete, slow moving or damaged items where appropriate.
accounting period are included in the Consolidated profit and loss account from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
Taxation In the Companys Financial statements, investments in subsidiary Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at undertakings are stated at cost less an amount representing goodwill amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws written off to reserves in 1988.
Provisions for temporary fluctuations in that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance sheet date.
Only dividends received and receivable are credited to the Companys Profit and loss account.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the Balance sheet date where transactions No Profit and loss account is presented for JJB Sports plc, as permitted or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985. to pay less tax in the future, have occurred at the Balance sheet date.
Timing differences are differences between the Groups taxable profits and its results as stated in the Financial statements that arise from the Goodwill inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from Goodwill consists of: those in which they are recognised in the Financial statements.
Goodwill purchased on the acquisition of unincorporated businesses A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore which is stated at cost.
Amortisation has been provided to write off recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be the cost of this goodwill over its estimated useful life in equal annual regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits instalments based upon the unexpired period of the property lease from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be which relates to the business acquired: and deducted.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration given apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to over the fair value of the separately identifiable net assets acquired, reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or together with associated costs.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions during substantively enacted by the Balance sheet date.
and since the accounting period ended 31 January 1999 is being amortised over twenty years.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions in earlier Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
accounting periods was written off against reserves on acquisition and would be charged or credited in the Profit and loss account on the subsequent disposal of the business to which it related.
37 Statement of accounting policies continued Foreign currencies Pension costs Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the local For defined benefit schemes operated by T. J. Hughes Ltd, which was currency at actual exchange rates at the date of the transaction.
disposed of on 14 November 2003, the amount charged to the Profit and loss account in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the benefits, in the accounting periods during which T. J. Hughes Limited was end of the accounting period are reported at the rates of exchange a subsidiary, was the estimated regular cost of providing the benefits prevailing at that date.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in accrued in the accounting period, adjusted to reflect variations from that exchange rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as cost.
The regular cost was calculated so that it represented a an exchange gain or loss in the Profit and loss account.
substantially level percentage of current and future payroll.
Variations from regular cost were charged or credited to the Profit and loss account For the purpose of consolidation, the closing rate method is used, under as a constant percentage of payroll over the estimated average which translation gains or losses are shown as a movement on reserves.
remaining working life of scheme members.
Defined benefit schemes The Profit and loss accounts of the foreign subsidiary undertakings are were funded, with the assets of the scheme held separately from those translated at the average exchange rate for the accounting period.
of the Group, in separate trustee administered funds.
Differences between the amounts charged to the Profit and loss account and amounts funded were shown as either provisions or prepayments in the Operating leases Balance sheet.
The Groups principal leased assets are land and buildings acquired under operating leases which are generally subject to periodic rent reviews.
For defined contribution schemes, the amount charged to the Profit and Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over loss account in respect of pension costs and other retirement benefits the lease term, even if the payments are not made on such a basis.
represents the contributions payable in the accounting period.
Differences between contributions payable in the accounting period and Any contributions receivable on acquiring short leasehold properties are contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments credited to the Balance sheet and released to the Profit and loss account on the Balance sheet.
over the term of the lease.
Rent free periods are treated as deferred income and are released to operating profit over the accounting periods up to the date of the first rent review.
The cost of other operating leases in respect of plant, fixtures and fittings is charged to operating profit on a straight line basis over the accounting periods of the lease.
Debt Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds after deduction of issue costs.
The carrying amount is increased by the finance cost in respect of the accounting period and reduced by payments made in the period.
Turnover Turnover represents sales of goods through retail stores and income generated from the provision of sports and leisure facilities, excluding VAT, in the normal course of business.
Turnover generated from the provision of sports and leisure facilities is recorded in the accounting period during which the facility is made available to members.
