Operating and Financial Review Environmental Catalysts and Technologies Operations Environmental Catalysts and Technologies achieved good growth in profits in autocatalysts, with all the growth coming Johnson Matthey has operations in 34 countries and employs in Europe and Asia.
Profits were lower in North America.
It is organised into four global divisions: In Johnson Mattheys financial year global light duty vehicle sales Catalysts, Precious Metal Products, Pharmaceutical Materials grew by 2.9%, with most of the growth arising in Asia where and Colours & Coatings.
Sales in Europe increased by 1.7%, with most of the growth coming in Eastern Europe.
In North Catalysts Division America light duty vehicle sales were slightly up but domestic production fell by 1.8% with an increased number of imports Description of the Business mainly from Asia.
Catalysts Division consists of three global businesses: Light Vehicle Sales and Production Environmental Catalysts and Technologies ECT Year to 31st March ECT comprises Johnson Mattheys global autocatalyst, heavy 2005 2004 change millions millions % duty diesel and stationary source emission control businesses.
We are a world leading manufacturer of catalysts for vehicle North America Sales 19.46 19.35 0.6% exhaust emission control and a leader in catalyst systems for Production 15.56 15.85 -1.8% the reduction of volatile organic compound emissions from Europe Sales 17.98 17.68 1.7% industrial processes.
Manufacturing takes place in the USA, UK, Production 20.30 19.90 2.0% Belgium, Mexico, Argentina, South Africa, Japan, Malaysia, India Asia Sales 13.68 13.14 4.1% Production 21.10 19.70 7.1% and China.
R&D facilities are in the USA, UK, Sweden, Japan and Brazil.
Global Sales 62.09 60.36 2.9% Production 63.00 60.80 3.6% Source: Global Insight Process Catalysts and Technologies PCT PCT manufactures base and precious metal process catalysts, ECTs strong performance in Europe reflected the fine chemicals and electrochemical products.
Our platinum group metal pgm refining business recovers spent catalysts continued growth in diesel car sales where Johnson Matthey has leading technology.
For the year to 31st March 2005 diesel and other secondary material and also refines primary pgms from global mining operations.
Manufacturing facilities are in the car sales in Western Europe accounted for nearly half the market for cars.
There is increasing focus on reducing particulate UK, USA, Germany, India and China.
Our Research Chemicals business is based in the USA, UK and Germany.
emissions from diesel vehicles in Europe and Johnson Matthey has been working closely with many of the leading car companies to develop catalysed soot filters CSFs which Fuel Cells remove particles from diesel exhaust emissions.
CSFs are likely Johnson Matthey is the world leader in catalysts and catalysed to be required on all diesel cars in Europe from 2010, but components for fuel cells.
many car manufacturers plan to fit these devices much earlier.
We are investing in new production capacity to manufacture Performance in 2004 05 CSFs and expect sales to grow in 2005 06.
Catalysts Divisions sales rose by 4% to 1,184 million.
At Our autocatalyst businesses in Asia benefited from strong constant exchange rates the increase was 7%.
In India, where Johnson Matthey has a strong market the value of precious metals fell by 3% to 698 million.
position, car sales grew by 25% while the growth rate in car At constant exchange rates sales excluding the value of sales slowed in China but was still 12.5% up on prior year.
We precious metals rose slightly.
Sales growth was held back by are expanding our factory in Shanghai and we have also put in lower pass through substrate costs associated with the a new production facility next to our technical centre in Japan.
increasing proportion of diesel catalysts sold.
This has been well received by customers and we expect to The divisions operating profit increased by 2% to see additional sales in Japan in 2005 06.
In North America car 111.5 million.
At constant exchange rates operating profit production fell, particularly in the final quarter of our financial grew by 6%.
year when domestic production was down 4.5%.
Autocatalyst volumes were also down and Johnson Mattheys profits in the region were lower than last year.
In South America vehicle production showed a strong recovery and our facility in Argentina was well ahead of prior year.
Johnson Matthey 6 Figure 1 Figure 2 HDD On Road Regulation Development Light Duty Petrol-engined Vehicle NOx Emission Standards 0.20 0.75 Japan 2003 Current Standards 0.15 0.50 US 2002 3 4 EU III 0.10 0.25 Japan 2009 0.05 US 2010 Japan 2005 EU V EU IV US 2007 0 0 1992 1997 2002 2005 2007 2010 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5 5.0 5.5 6.0 NOx g kw-hr California US Federal Japan Europe China In 2003 04 ECT benefited from strong sales of heavy duty control of hydrocarbons HC, carbon monoxide CO and diesel HDD retrofit products in Japan supported by an PM emissions from heavy duty diesel vehicles.
This has resulted incentive programme from the Tokyo Metropolitan Government.
in the generation of millions of hours of operating data on a There were no similar sized programmes in 2004 05 and wide variety of HDD engines and places the company in a consequently revenues from HDD retrofit products were strong position to assist HDD original equipment manufacturers down.
The outlook for HDD sales to original equipment as they prepare to meet tougher emissions standards.
New legislation on HDD vehicle Control of NOx emissions from diesel engines presents emissions EU IV will come into effect in Europe for new some formidable challenges as diesel exhaust contains a great models in October 2005 and for all new vehicles in October deal of oxygen and thus is a strongly oxidising atmosphere.
New legislation in the US starts in January 2007.
The The removal of NOx, however, requires a reducing atmosphere great majority of truck and bus manufacturers will be using one containing very little oxygen or a reductant that can aftertreatment devices to meet this legislation and Johnson selectively reduce the NOx in the presence of excess oxygen.
Matthey has leading technology to meet the new standards.
Therefore, in order to achieve the reduction of all four Tightening emissions standards worldwide are the most pollutants HC, CO, PM and NOx it is necessary to use highly important driver of ECTs business.
Following closely behind sophisticated systems.
There is no single solution to fit all these first waves of on road heavy duty diesel emissions applications.
Johnson Matthey has a full tool box of HDD regulations are a series of tighter standards which will come emission control technologies which will enable customers to into effect in Europe, Japan and the United States over the next meet continuously tightening standards, whichever approach five years.
These are illustrated in figure 1 and require major they choose.
reductions in the emissions of both particulate matter PM In addition to on road HDD emissions legislation, which and oxides of nitrogen NOx.
This presents significant will undoubtedly continue to tighten beyond 2010, there is challenges for manufacturers of HDD engines and vehicles.
also legislation in place in the European Union and the United While engine modifications can often be used to lower the States that will take effect from 2011 requiring off road or level of one of these pollutants, this results in an increase in the non road vehicles such as construction, mining and agricultural other.
For example an engine can often be made to run at a equipment to meet the same tight emissions standards.
This is lower temperature to reduce NOx emissions but this will an additional new market that will be of a similar size to the result in higher emissions of PM.
As legislation tightens it will on road HDD market and will have similar technology force the use of highly sophisticated catalyst systems.
Again Johnson Matthey is well positioned to estimated that by the end of 2008, this HDD legislation will benefit from this legislation.
have created a market for catalysts worth $600 million per Emissions standards for light duty gasoline and diesel annum in sales excluding the value of precious metals.
vehicles also continue to tighten around the world.
Figure 2 The success of Johnson Mattheys Continuously illustrates legislated limits for emissions of NOx in the worlds Regenerating Trap CRT technology in retrofit programmes major car markets.
Emission standards for HC and CO are also has established the CRT technology as the benchmark for following this worldwide trend and, as outlined above, there is Annual Report and Accounts 2005 7 PM g kw-hr NOx g mile Operating and Financial Review increasing focus on particulate emissions from diesels in The dramatic rise in the price of oil has continued to Europe.
This will undoubtedly spread to other parts of the focus investment on the economic use of natural gas, both world as the use of light duty diesel engines increases.
as a precursor for transport fuel and as a petrochemical Continuously tightening emissions standards bring new intermediate.
This, coupled with increased demand for technical challenges to our customers which require innovative, hydrogen in oil refineries worldwide driven by the need to high performance catalysts to meet them.
This will drive the reduce the sulphur content of fuels, has and will continue to growth of our autocatalyst business well into the next decade drive demand for the AMOG business products and will allow and beyond.
it to grow ahead of general economic indicators.
The high price of oil also benefited Tracerco, PCTs oil processing services business which saw record demand during Process Catalysts and Technologies 2004 05.
In addition to increased sales of services and Process Catalysts and Technologies performed well in 2004 05 equipment to production platforms and refineries, Tracerco with sales and profits comfortably ahead of the previous year.
continues to benefit from good demand for its hydrocarbon At the end of last year we announced the acquisition of the tagging products.
This results from action taken by various AMC group of companies AMC, the market leading supplier governments around the world to detect and prevent fuel of Sponge Nickel catalysts located in Tennessee, USA.
Nickel catalysts are extensively used in the pharmaceutical High oil prices also help to boost interest in the gas to and speciality chemicals industries and are often the first liquids process, which turns often stranded natural gas into catalysts to be evaluated when designing a new chemical sulphur free diesel fuel for which there is a growing market process.
The former AMC business, now Johnson Matthey driven by tightening fuel standards.
During the year we have Catalysts, Tennessee, performed in line with our expectations made progress in developing our technologies for the two key and made a welcome contribution in its first full year of stages of this process: syngas generation and Fischer Tropsch ownership.
Our other catalyst businesses also had a good year, Our Polymers, Chemical Catalysts and Edible Oils PCEO nowhere more so than the Ammonia, Methanol, Oil and Gas business recovered from the effect of last years rapid rise in AMOG business which saw strong growth in income from nickel prices and hydrogenation catalysts in general had a good both licensing and catalyst sales and another excellent year.
Market overcapacity and anticipation of the expiry of a performance from its gas processing and purification segments.
key patent softened income in polymers but important The development of a new class leading methanol flowsheet successes in a number of new product areas look likely to came a stage closer with the formation of OneSynergy, a stabilise this business in the near term.
partnership with Davy Process Engineering and Aker Kvaerner The platinum group metal refining business continued to take advantage of Johnson Mattheys new catalyst and to be adversely affected by the weak palladium price and process technologies for both methanol synthesis and overcapacity in the market.
After an extensive review we reforming chemistry.
decided to restructure the business in the UK and reduce Johnson Matthey 8 the intake of low grade materials which had left us with large Precious Metal Products Division quantities of residues which are difficult to process.
An exceptional Description of the Business charge of 10.2 million has been taken to cover the cost of this Precious Metal Products Division is organised into two groups: rationalisation.
One objective of the restructuring will be to reduce the quantity of precious metals held in the refinery and thereby release over 20 million of cash from inventory reduction.
Platinum Our Research Chemicals business continued its recent Consists of our worldwide platinum marketing and fabrication record of strong growth in 2004 05.
During the course of the activities.
Marketing is headquartered in London with support year we acquired the operations of Lancaster Synthesis from facilities in Philadelphia and Hong Kong.
We are the worlds Clariant AG.
The acquisition was temporarily delayed as a result leading distributor of platinum group metals and the sole of a serious fire at Lancasters UK premises in late July.
However marketing agent for Anglo Platinum, the worlds largest the deal was completed at the end of September at a producer of platinum.
Our platinum fabrication business makes significantly reduced cost.
The Lancaster business represents a a wide range of platinum group metal products primarily in the good fit with our Research Chemicals business and excellent UK and USA.
progress has been made in integrating stock and order management systems while maintaining the value of the Gold and Silver Lancaster brand with its strong market franchise.
Comprises our worldwide gold and silver refining and bullion manufacturing operations.
Johnson Matthey is a market leader Fuel Cells in the refining of gold and silver.
The business serves the The annual cost of our Fuel Cells business reduced by worlds mining industries and recycles secondary scrap material.
The market for stationary fuel Gold and silver refining operations are located in the USA, cells has not grown as quickly as our customers had expected Canada and Hong Kong.
but developments in automotive fuel cells continue to be very encouraging.
At this stage in the development of fuel cells the Performance in 2004 05 emphasis is very much on establishing durability in real world Precious Metal Products Divisions sales grew by 4% to applications.
This inevitably takes time, particularly for a number 3,069 million, reflecting more buoyant trading conditions of the stationary applications for which durability requirements for platinum group metals pgm and higher average prices.
At constant exchange rates sales grew by 8%.
Operating profit During the year we transferred most of our UK fuel cell increased by 3% to 45.4 million, despite the revised terms activities including product development to our facility at of the renewed contracts with Anglo Platinum and adverse Swindon, while longer term research remains at our technology exchange translation.
At constant exchange rates operating centre at Sonning Common.
This will allow the business to profit was 6% up.
operate more efficiently with integrated marketing, product development and production teams based at Swindon working Platinum in close collaboration with key customers to meet nearer term targets, while the research group at Sonning Common focuses The price of platinum reached its peak for 2004 05 of $937 oz in April, a 24 year high, driven by good physical demand and on the next generation of materials needed for mass automotive markets in the future.
After a sharp correction in late April and early May, which saw the price fall back to $783 oz, The first fuel cell vehicles to be manufactured in any quantity will be powered by hydrogen.
In California, the State the price of platinum followed an upward trend for the rest of the year.
The average price was $848 oz, a 14% increase government is taking action to develop a network of filling stations for hydrogen powered vehicles.
Total consumption of platinum edged up marginally in cars has shown that customers are prepared to pay a premium for environmentally friendly vehicles.
Most of the worlds 2004 05, with the autocatalyst sector underpinning demand.
The increase in market share of diesel cars in Europe and major car companies are continuing to invest heavily in the development of fuel cell vehicles as concerns over fuel security, tightening emission controls for diesel powered trucks in Japan were key drivers.
However, purchases of platinum for jewellery global warming and air quality become more pressing.
manufacture fell in 2004 05 as a result of the strength and volatility of the platinum price.
Demand in the key Chinese market declined, while consumption in North America and Japan also suffered.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 9 Operating and Financial Review Supply of Platinum 2000-2004 Demand for Platinum 2000-2004 Supply of Palladium 2000-2004 Demand for Palladium 2000-2004 Million oz Million oz Million oz Million oz South Africa Others Russia Autocatalyst Jewellery Industrial South Africa Russia Others Autocatalyst Electronics Dental Other net net 7 9 7 9 8 8 6 6 7 7 5 5 6 6 4 4 5 5 4 4 3 3 3 3 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 Supplies of platinum expanded faster than demand as The divisions pgm manufacturing business continued its South African output exceeded 5 million oz for the first time.
profitable growth, benefiting from good customer service and Although platinum demand again exceeded supplies, the technical leadership.
Demand for our pgm catalyst, sheet and market deficit was reduced to the lowest level for six years.
wire products for industrial applications was strong throughout The palladium price also reached its peak for 2004 05 in the year.
Our medical parts business, based in California, also April, touching $333 oz as investors extended their already recorded excellent growth.
Increased usage of nitinol in medical substantial long positions.
However, production and stocks were device applications in both Europe and the US, resulted in a more than adequate to meet demand and the price fell back strong demand for products from our San Jose factory.
The average price for the Business levels at our precision machining factory in San year was $219 oz, an increase of 9% on 2003 04.
Diego, where we completed our first full year since relocating Physical demand for palladium climbed steeply in 2004 05. to an expanded facility, were also strong.
To increase our Most of this increase came from the jewellery sector, led by product offering of key medical device components, we the rapid development of palladium jewellery manufacturing acquired, in May 2004, a manufacturer of medical hypotubes in China.
Demand in the autocatalyst sector was also up as based in Temecula, California.
The business had a very successful US car companies increased their market purchases, having first year and we are now well positioned at all of our run down their stocks in 2003. production facilities to take advantage of continued growth in Growth in demand was almost exactly matched by a the medical devices market.
rise in supplies, particularly from Russia where a considerable volume of metal was sold from government stocks.
Total Gold and Silver supplies exceeded demand by a significant margin, leaving In September 2004 the board took the decision to close the palladium in surplus for the fourth consecutive year.
groups UK gold and silver refinery.
Tight refining margins and the The price of rhodium staged a sharp recovery in 2004 05. weaker US dollar resulted in a loss in 2003 04 of 1.6 million Growing auto demand and increased speculative interest after metal interest and a similar performance in the first five resulted in a tight and illiquid market.
The average price more months of 2004 05.
The closure was completed on schedule, than doubled to $1,203 oz in 2004 05, reaching a peak of by the end of March 2005, at a cost of 13.2 million.
As part $1,665 oz in February 2005. of the closure programme a significant proportion of the Despite the revised terms of the new Anglo Platinum customers from our UK refinery were successfully transferred contract and adverse foreign currency translation, profits from to our refineries in Salt Lake City and Toronto, where spare the divisions marketing and trading operations were higher capacity existed.
This boosted profits in North America which than in 2003 04.
Commission income benefited from higher finished ahead of 2003 04.
Refining volumes in Hong Kong average metal prices and trading margins improved as a result were good in 2004 05 but fell short of the exceptional prior of more favourable platinum and rhodium markets.
However, sales of Johnson Matthey group products into the burgeoning Chinese economy more than compensated for this.
Johnson Matthey 10 year of operation and we expect to achieve further growth in Pharmaceutical Materials Division this specialist market in 2005 06.
During the year we continued Description of the Business our programme of capacity expansion at the Macfarlan Smith Pharmaceutical Materials Division is a global, integrated supplier site, particularly in support of growth in specialist opiates.
of active pharmaceutical ingredients APIs, which provides services to pharmaceutical companies through every phase West Deptford of the development of a new product.
As anticipated, our active pharmaceutical ingredient The divisions Macfarlan Smith UK and West Deptford manufacturing business in the US, which is based in West USA businesses provide a full range of commercial scale Deptford, NJ, saw its profits fall in the second half of 2004 05 manufacturing services for APIs to both generic and branded as the contribution from carboplatin was reduced following the pharmaceutical companies.
Both businesses specialise in the expiry of the patent in October 2004.
Now that the patent has manufacture of low volume, high value products, especially expired we expect to supply to both Bristol-Myers Squibb and controlled drugs.
generic producers but at lower margins.
Sales of other products Pharma Services USA provides contract research and grew, including opiates where we have successfully transferred development and manufacturing services to pharmaceutical manufacturing technology from Macfarlan Smith.
companies from pre-clinical through to commercial launch.
Growth in sales of opiate drugs will continue as an The Pharmaceutical Materials Ireland business specialises increasing number of customers obtain regulatory approvals in the manufacture of prostaglandin APIs, which are very low to market products containing APIs manufactured at West volume, high value, chemically complex molecules.
Sales of non-opiate controlled drugs also improved during the year and significant progress was made on the Performance in 2004 05 development of several attractive generic products which will reach commercialisation over the next few years.
Pharmaceutical Materials Divisions sales fell by 6% to 132 million.
Adjusting for exchange translation the drop in sales was 2%.
The fall in sales reflected lower selling prices for Pharma Services carboplatin, which went off patent in October 2004, and lower During the year we changed the name of Pharm-Eco to revenues from contract research, partly offset by increasing Pharma Services to better reflect its market segment.
Although sales of controlled drugs.
Operating profit fell by 5% to manufacturing continued to grow, contract research revenues 40.0 million partly as a result of adverse exchange translation.
were down in the second half of the year and profits were At constant exchange rates the fall in operating profit was 2%, below last year.
in line with the drop in sales.
In 2004 05 Pharma Services increased its investment in the development of several low volume, generic APIs.
While these will take several years to reach commercial approval this Macfarlan Smith will serve to broaden the portfolio of the Pharma Services Macfarlan Smith, which is based in Edinburgh, UK and business and counteract the somewhat lumpy profile of the manufactures controlled drugs for sale to generic contract research and development side of the business.
pharmaceutical companies, performed well in the year.
Sales and profits were both ahead of last year with most of the growth coming from high margin specialist opiate products.
Ireland The world market for drugs to manage severe pain is growing During 2004 05 Cascade Biochem, which we acquired in 2002, at around 6% per annum as medicine is able to treat more was consolidated into its Cork, Ireland facility and renamed acute conditions: the worlds population ages: and people are Pharmaceutical Materials Ireland.
The business has continued to generally less tolerant of pain.
Overall growth of the opiates expand its customer base and geographic coverage during the market is driven primarily by the introduction of new year.
Regulatory filings of new generic products containing our applications and new dosage forms for specialist opiates such prostaglandin APIs have been made by our customers and are as oxycodone, hydromorphone and buprenorphine, the currently in review stages.
Our products are also being qualified markets for some of which are growing at double digit rates.
for new generic drug dosage forms targeted for sale in major Macfarlan Smiths new facility to manufacture low volume, world markets.
high potency products mainly analgesics, which we announced last year, has made a valuable contribution to profits in its first Annual Report and Accounts 2005 11 Operating and Financial Review adversely impacted European tile producers who are major Colours & Coatings Division exporters to other parts of the world.
More than 50% of the Description of the Business tiles manufactured in Italy and Spain are exported outside the Colours & Coatings Division is ranked among the worlds top euro zone.
As a consequence, prices and volumes in Europe integrated suppliers of decorative products and associated raw remained under pressure.
However, there was good growth in materials for ceramics and glass.
The division is structured into China, India and Brazil where Johnson Matthey has production two businesses: Colour Technologies and Ceramics.
facilities and is well represented.
Demand was also strong in Eastern Europe, especially Poland and Russia, and our sales into the region showed good growth.
Ceramics The Ceramics business is realising the benefits of Headquartered in Spain, our Ceramics business is a leading investments made in recent years to position it as one of the global supplier of raw materials and intermediate products to lowest cost, high quality producers in the world.
While growth the ceramic industries.
The business has a presence in all the rates in the more mature markets like Western Europe are major geographical regions with core manufacturing facilities modest, the business is strongly cash generative and there are a in Spain, Italy, UK, Brazil, USA, Malaysia, India and China.
number of important growth opportunities in Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Asia.
During 2004 05 the Ceramics Colour Technologies business started work on the expansion of its manufacturing Headquartered in the Netherlands, our Colour Technologies facility in China and it has plans for further expansion in both business manufactures black obscuration and silver conductive China and India over the next few years to meet rapidly enamels for automotive glass.
It also makes colours, enamels growing demand in the Asia region.
and decorative precious metal products for other glass applications such as bottles and architectural glass as well as for Colour Technologies tableware and other ceramic applications.
Colour Technologies performed well in 2004 05.
Sales to the automotive sector increased, particularly sales of both black Performance in 2004 05 obscuration enamels and conductive silver paste.
This was We restructured Colours & Coatings Division during the year mainly due to increased market penetration in the United following the sale of Pigments & Dispersions in September States and South America and the launch of innovative new 2004 for 22.2 million after costs.
Several other sites are in products with enhanced technical and processing the process of being closed, the largest of which is the divisions characteristics.
Demand for decorative products for other decal factory in Stoke-on-Trent.
An exceptional charge of glass applications was also up, benefiting from new product 10.3 million has been taken to cover the cost of these introductions which are helping the business to consolidate closures.
The decorative precious metals, glass coatings and its market leading position in this segment.
tableware businesses have been renamed Colour Technologies During the year Colour Technologies launched new ranges and will be transferred to Precious Metal Products Division of lead free enamels for architectural and appliance glass and included in that divisions results next year.
The remaining applications and the business remains fully committed to business, Structural Ceramics, has been renamed Ceramics and minimising the environmental impact of its products.
Towards will be shown as a stand alone division in 2005 06. the end of the year it launched ranges of inorganic inks for Sales for the division, excluding Pigments & Dispersions, both ink jet and digital printing applications.
At constant exchange Following the announcement of the closure of the decal rates sales grew by 12%.
Operating profit increased by 13% to factory in Stoke-on-Trent, the ceramic side of Colour 27.4 million.
At constant exchange rates profits grew by 17%.
Technologies business has been refocused on a much reduced range of decorative products for the tableware industry.
Sales Ceramics into this industry in 2004 05 were at the same level as the Our Ceramics business had sales of 166 million and prior year, despite the continued contraction of the UK contributed about two thirds of the profits of the division.
Going forward, the business has a small It supplies decorative materials for ceramic products, mainly flexible team with innovative products and a commitment to to the tile industry.
The business achieved good growth in world class technical support and it is hoped that it will see sales and profits in 2004 05.
Demand for tiles in the Western a return to growth from this much reduced base.
European market was flat and the strength of the euro Johnson Matthey 12 Emissions Control Research & Development Over the next five years, advanced compression-ignition engines Research and development is the lifeblood of Johnson are expected to deliver much better fuel economy than the Mattheys high technology businesses.
We maintain a high level engines currently available.
Apart from lowering carbon dioxide of R&D expenditure to ensure the continuous flow of new emissions, the new engines will produce very low SOx oxides products and technologies to provide our customers with cost of sulphur emissions by running on ultra low sulphur diesel, effective solutions to legislated and technical requirements.
biodiesel and gas to liquids GTL fuels.
Even so, their exhausts In 2004 05 Johnson Matthey spent 58.2 million on research will still contain the other common pollutants from internal and development.
combustion engines: carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons, NOx oxides of nitrogen and particulates.
Johnson Matthey Technology Centre At the Johnson Matthey Technology Centre we are already designing exhaust aftertreatment systems for 2010 and beyond, The Johnson Matthey Technology Centre JMTC, located at when conventional three-way gasoline and diesel catalysts will Sonning Common, UK is the groups main centre for longer no longer meet the demands of new engine technologies.
It employs over 120 scientists, specialists in the The experience that we have gained over 30 years means fields of catalysis, precious metals, materials science and many that we have an extensive knowledge base on which to build other disciplines in which Johnson Matthey operates.
By inputting performance measurements into state of the art facilities for preparing and testing catalysts and mathematical models, we are even able to predict how other products as well as a world class analytical science group, potential catalysts would perform on vehicles that do not equipped with the latest tools to characterise and understand yet exist.
the materials with which Johnson Matthey works.
Among the technologies we are developing is a very simple In addition to projects directly sponsored by the operating strategy for destroying NOx.
Known as hydrocarbon-SCR, this divisions to meet their long term objectives, JMTC also runs a technology does not require a special reductant to be carried set of core science projects to extend the groups knowledge on board the vehicle, but relies on a small amount of fuel being of the science at the heart of many of its businesses, injected into the exhaust.
Our biggest challenge is to avoid the particularly in the fields of catalyst engineering, modelling, fuel immediately combusting.
In order to achieve this we are preparation and characterisation.
This knowledge can then be engineering a catalyst surface that provides a reaction pathway applied to accelerate and improve product development across for the fuel molecules to react with NOx, before they can the group.
JMTC works in close collaboration with an extensive network of technology centres and development groups within Johnson Mattheys global businesses.
Examples of two long term projects currently underway at JMTC are described below followed by a review of R&D activities within the operating divisions.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 13 Operating and Financial Review Hydrogen and materials processing as well as a great deal of experience Using hydrogen in a fuel cell allows electricity to be produced in the area of hydrogen storage and use.
These skills have been without passing through a combustion process.
Ultimately the brought together at JMTC to address this important challenge.
hydrogen must come from a renewable source but society can In conjunction with a group of UK and European universities still reap the benefits of using hydrogen as a fuel improved air we have developed new techniques for alloying and activating quality and reduced dependence on a single fuel source even magnesium to produce a solid state hydrogen store that if it is produced from non-renewable resources.
Johnson operates at significantly lower temperatures than could previously Matthey research is successfully extending existing processes have been achieved.
We have now run a fuel cell coupled with and developing new catalyst materials to allow a wide range a demonstration hydrogen store, giving us valuable insight into of different feed stocks to be converted into hydrogen.
These the heat balance required in a full size system.
include difficult feed stocks such as diesel as well as carbon neutral biofuels.
Catalysts Division The purity of the hydrogen produced is also an issue as Environmental Catalysts and Technologies continues to invest carbon monoxide CO, a by-product of hydrogen production in state of the art equipment and dedicated personnel for the from hydrocarbon reforming, is a potent poison of conventional development and testing of catalysts to fulfil its customers fuel cell catalysts.
Our research teams are working both to needs for products which meet ever tightening emissions improve the performance of fuel processors in order to reduce legislation around the world.
Through this investment in R&D, the level of CO generated and to develop novel fuel cell Johnson Matthey has become a leader in diesel emission electrocatalysts that possess a degree of CO tolerance.
control technologies for both heavy and light duty diesel In the longer term, radically different technologies will applications.
For heavy duty diesel applications we offer a emerge to power the hydrogen economy, such as catalytic complete tool box of high technology solutions to meet water splitting and solar reforming.
All pose real technical tightening emissions limits for both oxides of nitrogen NOx challenges, but open up new applications for Johnson Mattheys and particulates.
We are also at the leading edge of catalysed core technologies in catalysis, coatings and purification.
The soot filter technology for removal of particulates from light Johnson Matthey Technology Centre is collaborating with duty diesel exhausts.
In addition, Johnson Matthey continues experienced partners in European Union sponsored projects to invest in the development of improved products for the across these areas.
Such participation allows us to explore treatment of exhaust from gasoline engines.
these new business opportunities and to build relationships During the year our R&D facility in Kitsuragawa, Japan was with other technology leaders from their outset.
significantly expanded, with the addition of a new CVS testing A key enabling technology for fuel cell powered vehicles facility for on vehicle catalyst evaluation and test cells for is the development of a safe and efficient on board hydrogen catalyst ageing.
This investment supports Johnson Mattheys store.
This is a pressing technical need as the car companies growing business with Asian vehicle manufacturers.
move toward the commercialisation of fuel cell cars.
Johnson Process Catalysts and Technologies has focused its Matthey has wide ranging expertise in nanoparticles, coatings research activities around a number of core science projects.
Johnson Matthey 14 The intent is to gain critical mass in developing key generic The division has also increased its R&D effort on new technologies which can be applied to more than one product medical alloys.
In particular we are focusing on novel alloys to group.
With a widely diverse palette of catalyst manufacturing improve strength, flexibility, magnetic resonance imaging MRI and development tools PCT has seen significant benefits from compatibility and radiopacity for a wide range of medical this approach.
One area of focus is steam reforming.
Here, we have commissioned a major new investment in testing capacity Pharmaceutical Materials Division which will underpin the science behind developments in syngas Pharmaceutical Materials Divisions research and development preparation for both gas to liquids and methanol process is focused on commercial products to be manufactured and designs.
We are also investing in an R&D project aimed at marketed by the divisions four business units.
Technology developing more efficient routes for manufacturing polyesters.
required for the manufacture of commercial scale products Development work, in collaboration with a number of includes primarily the development of chemical manufacturing customers, focused on the reduction of the trans-fatty acids processes and methods for the analysis of these products.
This content of hydrogenated oils is beginning to win new business.
technology is essential to achieve competitive market positions During the year the Fuel Cells business moved all of its and to obtain regulatory approval for products.
product development activities, the majority of which had Contract drug development services offered by Johnson previously been carried out at the Johnson Matthey Technology Matthey Pharma Services include medicinal chemistry, process Centre at Sonning Common, to its new manufacturing facility in development and initial scale-up of potential new drugs.
This reflects the organisation of R&D across the Each of Pharmaceutical Materials Divisions businesses has Johnson Matthey group where development work is carried developed substantial chemical know-how in its respective out within the operating divisions and longer term, fundamental market niches and they collaborate closely on new technical research is carried out at the Johnson Matthey Technology challenges.
Combined with Johnson Mattheys core expertise Centre.
JMTC now has a greater responsibility for the in catalysis, chiral catalysis and organometallic chemistry, the fundamental science of fuel cells.
This work is critical to the division offers the pharmaceutical marketplace a unique range business success in the long term fuel cells market.
Cells business and its JMTC based research group are working closely with customers and suppliers to demonstrate that the Colours & Coatings Division advanced materials they currently have under development will meet the demands of future mass markets.
This is particularly Colours & Coatings Division continues to place great emphasis true in the area of catalysis where increased stability and higher on product and process development, both of which are key activity are key goals.
to our ability to grow sales and sustain margins.
Considerable resources are dedicated to research both at the Johnson Precious Metal Products Division Matthey Technology Centre and at the major European facilities in the Netherlands, Italy, Spain and UK.
The research structure, Precious Metal Products Divisions global research and focused on the core areas of fundamental chemistry, cost development programmes focus on several key areas of new reduction technologies and product development, has continued product and technology development.
Work continues on to deliver innovative solutions for the market during the year.
catalysts for ammonia oxidation which reduce the formation of Some examples include new ranges of lead free enamels for unwanted by-products, in particular nitrous oxide.
The Kyoto architectural and appliance glass applications and inorganic inks Treaty, which was ratified by a number of countries in February for both ink jet and digital printing applications.
Going forward, 2005, lists nitrous oxide as one of five greenhouse gases.
With management remains focused on delivering a pipeline of market significant financial incentives available for reducing emissions, driven research and product developments to underpin this has created a high level of interest within the divisions future profitability.
Products that utilise technology jointly developed with Process Catalysts and Technologies are performing well in customer trials.
We expect to commercialise these in 2005 06.
