Our expansion into Lincoln and Grimsby is Group Earnings During the year, we have recorded a taxation credit continuing as planned, with the infrastructure build The strength of the Groups performance is of 5.6 million 2004: 0.2 million.
This credit arises due for completion in June 2005.
We have already reflected in the growth of operating profit, before from the recognition of a deferred tax asset secured significant contracts in this area, including discontinued operations, exceptional items reflecting our current view as to the utilisation APS Student Services Limited, the University of and amortisation of intangible fixed assets, to of unclaimed capital allowances in the Group.
Profit after tax was 12.6 million compared to a loss Again, our internet services have received industry Group depreciation costs have reduced in the year of 118.4 million in the prior year.
endorsement, with Eclipse Internet being to 37.5 million 2004: 52.6 million.
This reduction named by ISPA as Best Heavy Business Broadband reflects, in part, the impact of the accelerated write Group Financing and Investment service provider.
down of our network assets undertaken in 2004 The Groups net debt has increased by 69.4 million coupled with a tight control on capital investment over the year to 163.6 million 2004: 94.2 million.
During the second half of the year we have invested aimed at improving operating margins.
The increase is driven by net investment in in and developed our capability in the provision of acquisitions and disposals of 72.2 million.
outsourced directory enquiries DQ services and Amortisation of intangible assets of 8.7 million secured a significant contract with Independent 2004: 2.5 million has increased as a result of The major part of the net debt increase relates Radio News.
the goodwill arising on the consolidation of the to the cash element of the consideration paid for acquisitions of Eclipse and Omnetica.
We are Omnetica in December 2004, an amount of During the year our experience and capability in currently amortising this goodwill over ten years.
At this time, the Group entered into a the contact centre market was recognised at the new 225 million five year bank facility to finance both European DQ Awards, where we were named Best The Group reported a pre-tax profit on the sale of the acquisition and ongoing funding requirements.
the satellite and broadcast business in April 2004 of 2.9 million.
In February 2005, the Group sold Investment to fund continued growth and drive Publishing Services its shares in Intelsat for 0.9 million, realising operational improvement in the business has Turnover in Publishing Services increased to a profit of 0.3 million.
During the year the Group continued, with capital expenditure of 36.9 million 12.7 million 2004: 12.4 million, a 2.4% increase has taken an exceptional charge of 0.1 million to in the year 2004: 37.2 million.
The small decline in EBITDA to write down our investment in the Spectrum Venture 7.2 million 2004: 7.4 million reflects the reduction Management Fund.
Cash financing costs increased during the year in the volume of work for BT towards the end of to 11.1 million 2004: 6.7 million reflecting both the year.
Reported profit on ordinary activities before interest increased borrowings and the costs associated with and tax of 15.6 million compares to a loss of arranging the new facility.
Our Publishing Services business continues to 111.1 million in the prior year.
perform well in the East Yorkshire area, underpinned Group net cash flow before acquisitions, disposals by the strong performance of our Hull Colour Net interest payable and similar charges of and before interest in the year was 14.0 million Pages directory.
8.6 million have increased from 7.5 million in the 2004: 14.3 million.
This includes the cash impact prior year.
Interest costs for the Group increased in of the exceptional restructuring undertaken in the In addition to the publication of our traditional the second half of the year as a result of the increase prior year of 3.0 million.
regional directories, we have provided directory in debt arising from the acquisitions of Omnetica publishing services to BT as it has re-established and Eclipse.
The anticipated sale of the French The net debt position of the Group will benefit from its presence in the UK classified directories market.
operations of Omnetica will have a favourable the anticipated disposal of the French operations of As anticipated, the volume of work on this shortimpact on interest costs in the next financial year.
Omnetica for a cash consideration of 47 million.
term BT contract has declined materially during The disposal, which is subject to French Competition the second half of the year.
Authority approval, should be completed during the summer of 2005 and the proceeds will be used to repay debt.
9 Operating and financial review Kingston Communications HULL PLC Annual Report 2004-05 Dividend Cash flow liquidity and capital structure Pensions In light of the improved financial performance of the Net cash outflow before financing was 70.8 million The Company continues to support the pension Group, the Board is proposing a final dividend of compared to an inflow last year of 7.6 million.
requirements of its employees through schemes 0.54 pence per share, resulting in a full year dividend This was due principally to the acquisitions and described in detail in note 28 to the financial payment of 0.9 pence per share.
The decision disposals made by the Group in the year and statements.
In line with the experience of many reflects the progress the Group has made to date increased financing costs.
At the year end the other companies the Defined Benefit Schemes and the Boards confidence in the Groups prospects.
net debt position of the Group had increased by operated by the Company are currently in deficit As outlined at the time of our interim results, our 69.4 million to 163.6 million.
The Company, however, future policy is to increase dividends in line with views the funding of the schemes from a long underlying earnings before amortisation of The Group continues to maintain tight control over term perspective and continues to meet the intangible fixed assets.
Subject to shareholder cash flow through a combination of improving funding obligations set on a triennial basis by approval at the Companys Annual General Meeting profitability, active working capital management qualified actuaries.
on 22 July, the final dividend will be payable on and careful consideration of any capital investment 29 July to shareholders registered at the close of programmes.
The ongoing funding requirements of Outlook business on 24 June 2005. the Group, currently anticipated to meet the needs The Group has accelerated its strategic repositioning of the business, can be met from the syndicated as a provider of integrated, converged Profit before and after taxation loan facility.
communications services in the UK.
The acquisitions Reported profit before tax was 7.0 million compared of Omnetica, Technica and Eclipse, followed by to a loss of 118.6 million last year.
Net interest Treasury policies and controls the sale of Omneticas French and Italian operations, payable was 8.6 million compared to 7.5 million A centralised treasury function supports the have reduced our exposure to increasingly last year.
operational activities of the Group and operates commoditised basic telecommunication services, within a treasury policy approved by the Board.
leading to a clear focus on the UK market.
At the The total tax credit of 5.6 million 2004: 0.2 million same time, we have added substantial breadth and reflects the movements in deferred tax balances, The main functions of Group Treasury are to ensure depth to the Groups capabilities.
combined with prior year adjustments.
adequate funding to meet the needs of the Group, and to manage the financial risks of the Group The new financial year has begun in line with our International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS that arise from the nature of its funding structure expectations as we start to see early benefits from With effect from 1 April 2005, the Group will be and operating cash flows through appropriate the initial stages of the integration of the businesses.
adopting International Financial Reporting Standards hedging strategies.
We look forward to delivering further improvement IFRS in its consolidated financial statements.
in the Groups overall performance in the year ahead.
We have undertaken a specific project to review Procedures are in place to monitor and manage the transition to IFRS and to determine the impact financial exposures, prevent unauthorised of these adjustments on reported results.
We are transactions and prevent transactions of a speculative on track to meet its reporting obligations, and the nature.
The Group Treasury function is subject to first set of results the Group will publish under IFRS an annual review by Internal Audit.
will be the interim statement for the six months ending 30 September 2005.
The Group will also More detail on the financial risks faced by the Group be restating its comparative results for the six months and management of those risks is contained in note ended 30 September 2004 and the year ended 26 to the financial statements.
31 March 2005, in accordance with IFRS.
