International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS TRANSITION BALANCE SHEET AT 31 MARCH 2004 The group will commence financial reporting under IFRS with effect from 1 April 2005.
The first published results under IFRS will be the interim results for the six month period to 30 September 2005, with comparative figures restated under IFRS.
There is no present intention to report subsidiary company accounts under IFRS.
The start point for this restatement of comparative figures is the group balance sheet at 31 March 2004.
The work on the preliminary transition balance sheet has been completed and the reconciliation of shareholders funds in moving from UK GAAP to IFRS is set out below.
New standards and interpretations that come into effect or that are adopted early before the first report under IFRS may result in adjustments to this reconciliation before it constitutes the final IFRS opening balance sheet.
m Shareholders funds under UK GAAP 1,714.3 Deferred tax in full A 351.7 Pension fund deficit B 70.7 Infrastructure renewals accounting C 62.3 Retranslation of goodwill to closing rate D 30.0 Dividends when approved IAS 10 E 69.5 Financial instruments marked to market F 9.8 Taxation related to share-based payments G 1.0 Shareholders funds restated under IFRS 1,384.9 A The discounting of deferred tax is no longer permitted under IFRS IAS12.
Under UK GAAP the deferred tax had been discounted from 542.8m to 191.8m.
In addition deferred tax is provided at 30% on rollover relief which was not provided for under UK GAAP.
B The full pension deficit for both UK and US schemes net of deferred tax will now be recognised in the balance sheet under IAS19.
C Infrastructure renewals accounting is not permitted under IAS16: renewals expenditure must be analysed between revenue and capital and treated accordingly.
Use has been made of the transition option to apply fair value as deemed cost as at 1 April 2004.
D Use has been made of the transition option within IFRS1 to re-translate Aquarion goodwill from sterling into US dollars.
E The final proposed dividend is reversed as it does not meet the definition of a liability.
F Hedging documentation was put in place as at 31 March 2004 and therefore IAS39 has been applied from this date.
Use has not been made of the option to defer application for a year.
The majority of the instruments held by the group qualify for hedge accounting treatment.
Deferred tax has been accounted for on the unrealised gains and losses.
G Under UK GAAP tax relief on share based payments in excess of amounts charged to the profit and loss account is a permanent difference.
Under IFRS it is a temporary difference giving rise to a deferred tax asset.
KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 73
