5 Summary of significant accounting policies continued The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award vesting date.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the number of awards that, in the opinion of the directors of the Group at that date, based on the best available estimate of the number of equity instruments, will ultimately vest.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of earnings per share as shown on page 53, note 14.
The Group has an employee share incentive plan and an employee share trust for the granting of non-transferable options to executives and senior employees.
Shares in the Group held by the employee share trust are treated as treasury shares and presented in the balance sheet as a deduction from equity.
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 in respect of equity-settled awards and has applied IFRS 2 only to equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested on 1 January 2005.
6 Total revenue An analysis of the Groups revenue for the year is as follows: Year ended 2005 Year ended 2004 m m Continuing operations Betting and Gaming 11,505.5 10,125.7 Other income 0.5 0.2 11,505.0 10,125.9 Discontinued operations Hotel accommodation and related services 1,743.6 1,676.1 Management fees 47.6 41.5 Joining fees and subscriptions 52.7 50.0 Franchise fees 5.5 3.6 1,849.4 1,771.2 13,354.4 11,897.1 7 Segment information The Groups operating businesses are organised and managed separately into three segments according to the nature of the services provided.
The Retail Betting segment comprises all activities connected with the UK shop estate, the European business and pools betting.
The Other Betting segment comprises Telephone betting and eGaming.
The Hotels segment comprises all activities connected with the ownership, operation and management of hotels and healthclubs.
The unallocated associates amounts relate to an associate that was previously classified as part of the hotel segment but was not included within the conditional disposal agreement of the hotels division to Hilton Hotels Corporation HHC.
The discontinued operation is disclosed in note 15.
There are no inter-segment sales and transfers.
Assets and liabilities comprise operating assets and liabilities less financial and tax items.
For geographic segments, revenue is attributed to the five principal geographic areas of the world based on the location of the customer.
