NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS 1 Corporate information The consolidated accounts of Hilton Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors on 22 February 2006.
Hilton Group plc is a limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom whose shares are publicly traded.
The addresses of its registered office and principal place of business are disclosed in the introduction to the Annual Report.
The principal activities of the Group are described on page 45, note 7.
2 Basis of preparation The consolidated accounts of Hilton Group plc and all its subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union.
The consolidated accounts are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest million m to one decimal place except when otherwise indicated.
To assist in understanding of underlying performance, the Group has defined the following items of income and expense as non-trading in nature: Profits losses on disposal of non-current assets Profits losses on disposal of business and investments Unrealised gains losses on derivative financial instruments that provide an economic hedge but for which hedge accounting is not available Litigation settlements.
The non-trading items have been included within the appropriate classification in the consolidated income statement.
3 First-time application The Group has adopted IFRS from 1 January 2004 the date of transition with the exception of IAS 32 and IAS 39 which were adopted on 1 January 2005.
A reconciliation of equity and the profit and loss is shown in note 40, page 87.
In accordance with IFRS 1 the Group is entitled to a number of voluntary and mandatory exemptions from full restatement, which have been adopted as follows: Business combinations The basis of accounting for pre-transition combinations under UK GAAP has not been revisited.
The initial carrying amount of assets and liabilities acquired in such business combinations is deemed to be equivalent to cost.
Property, plant and equipment The Group has elected to retain UK GAAP carrying values of freehold and leasehold hotels including revaluations as deemed cost at transition.
Employee benefits The cumulative net deficit on defined benefit pension schemes and similar benefits at transition date has been recognised in full in equity.
Share-based payments IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that had not vested at 1 January 2005.
Financial instruments The Group has elected not to present comparative information in accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39: Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
For the year ended 31 December 2004, financial assets and financial liabilities are accounted for on the basis of UK GAAP.
