NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1 Basis of accounting The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention.
They have been drawn up to comply with applicable UK accounting standards.
The Company has taken advantage of the provision of FRS 1 revised which exempts companies which are part of a group for which a consolidated cash flow statement is prepared, from preparing a cash flow statement.
The required consolidated cash flow statement has been included within the consolidated accounts of the Group.
2 Change in accounting policies Pension The Company has adopted FRS 17 Retirement Benefits in full during the year.
This has resulted in a change in accounting policy for pensions.
Defined benefit pension scheme assets and liabilities measured under FRS 17 now appear on the balance sheet.
The expected return on pension assets, interest on pension scheme liabilities and charges calculated by the actuaries in respect of current service costs are included in the profit and loss account.
Actuarial gains and losses are reflected directly in equity.
This has resulted in a reduction in shareholders funds of 64.9m at 31 December 2003, and 67.9m at 31 December 2004.
Share-based payments The Company has adopted FRS 20 Share-based payments during the year.
In accordance with the transition provisions in FRS 20, its provisions have been applied to all grants after 7 November 2002 that had not vested on 1 January 2005.
This has resulted in a reduction in reported profit before tax for the year ended 31 December 2004 of 2.0m and a reduction in shareholders funds of nil at 31 December 2003 and at 31 December 2004.
Post Balance Sheet Events The Company has adopted FRS 21 Events after the Balance Sheet Date during the year.
Under FRS 21, dividends declared after the balance sheet date should not be reported liabilities and therefore the Company will no longer accrue for dividends at period ends.
This has resulted in an increase in shareholders funds of 87.4m at 31 December 2003 and 95.3m at 31 December 2004.
3 Summary of significant accounting policies Investments Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less provision for any impairment.
Foreign currencies Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at year end rates of exchange.
Differences arising on equity investments denominated in foreign currencies are taken to reserves.
Other exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Taxation Deferred tax is recognised as an asset or liability, at appropriate rates, in respect of transactions and events recognised in the accounts of the current and previous periods which give the entity a right to pay less, or an obligation to pay more, tax in future periods.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent it is probable that there will be suitable taxable profits from which they can be recovered.
No provision is made for any taxation on capital gains that would arise from the future disposal of any fixed assets shown in the accounts at valuation, except to the extent that at the balance sheet date there is a binding sale agreement.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
Share-based payment transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted.
The fair value is determined using a binomial model, further details of which are given on page 79, note 35 of the Consolidated IFRS accounts.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of Hilton Group plc market conditions.
