NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS continued 4 Changes in accounting policies continued The amount of the adjustment for each financial statement item affected is as follows: 31 December 1 January 2005 2005 m m Consolidated balance sheet Non-current assets Interests in associates and other investments 0.1 0.1 Derivatives 51.7 52.7 Other financial assets 2.2 3.0 Current assets Trade and other receivables 0.8 0.8 Derivatives 8.5 4.9 Current liabilities Interest-bearing borrowings 31.6 20.7 Derivatives 41.7 33.5 Trade and other payables 0.7 Corporation tax payable receivable 2.4 5.8 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 40.8 18.0 Convertible loan note 20.3 26.0 Derivatives 5.1 38.8 Deferred tax liabilities 5.0 5.0 Equity Equity component of convertible loan note 34.3 34.3 Reserves 20.1 22.5 Consolidated income statement Net finance cost income trading 2.3 non-trading 8.1 Income tax expense 2.4 IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations The Group has applied IFRS 5 prospectively from 1 January 2005 in accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 5, which has resulted in a change in accounting policy on the recognition of a discontinued operation.
5 Summary of significant accounting policies Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts comprise the accounts of the parent Company Hilton Group plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year.
The underlying accounts of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent Company, using consistent accounting policies.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
All intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Subsidiaries are consolidated, using the purchase method of accounting, from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at the fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the accounts of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
38 Annual Report and Accounts 5 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Investment in associates The Groups investments in its associates are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
These are entities in which the Group has significant influence, but which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investees.
The accounts of the associates are used by the Group to apply the equity method.
The investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associates, less any impairment in value.
The income statement reflects the share of the results of operations of the associates.
To the extent that losses of associates exceed the carrying amount of the investments, the Group discontinues including its share of further losses and the investments are reported at nil value.
Additional losses are only provided if the Group has an obligation to a third party.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the associates equity, the Group recognises its share of any changes and discloses this, when applicable in the statement of changes in equity.
Foreign currency translation The presentation and functional currency of Hilton Group plc and the functional currencies of its UK subsidiaries, is sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in sterling at the foreign currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the consolidated income statement with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings that provide a post tax hedge against a net investment in a foreign entity.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences on those borrowings are also dealt with in equity.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at the date of initial transaction.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency shall be translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
The main functional currencies of the overseas subsidiaries are the Euro, Swedish Krona, Canadian Dollar and Danish Krone.
As at the reporting date the assets and liabilities of these overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and their income statements are translated at the weighted average exchange rates for the year.
The post tax exchange differences arising on the retranslation since the date of transition to IFRS are taken directly to a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation shall be recognised in the income statement.
Goodwill Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the acquirers interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary or associate at the date of acquisition.
In accordance with IFRS 3, with effect from 1 January 2004, goodwill is not amortised but reviewed annually for impairment and as such is stated at cost less any provision for impairment of value.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
On acquisition, any goodwill acquired is allocated to cash-generating units for the purposes of impairment testing.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Intangible assets Acquired both separately and from a business combination Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and those acquired as part of a business acquisition are capitalised separately from goodwill if the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The useful lives of these intangible assets are assessed to be either finite or indefinite.
Where amortisation is charged on assets with finite lives, this expense is taken to the income statement through the depreciation and amounts written off non-current assets line item.
Useful lives are also reviewed on an annual basis.
Annual Report and Accounts 39 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS continued 5 Summary of significant accounting policies continued The costs relating to internally generated intangible assets, principally software costs, are capitalised if the criteria for recognition as assets are met.
Other expenditure is charged against profits in the year in which the expenditure is incurred.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment annually either individually or at the cash generating unit level.
A summary of the policies applied to the Groups intangible assets is as follows: Management contract Software Key money Brand Licences Useful lives Finite Finite Finite Indefinite Indefinite Method used 30 years 3-5 years 10 years Not Not straight-line straight-line straight-line depreciated depreciated 2004: not 2004: 3-5 2004: 10 or revalued or revalued applicable years years Internally generated or acquired Acquired Acquired Acquired Acquired Acquired and internally generated Impairment testing recoverable amount testing Amortisation Amortisation Amortisation Annually and Annually and method method method where an where an reviewed at reviewed at reviewed at indicator of indicator of each financial each financial each financial impairment impairment year-end year-end year-end exists exists An intangible asset is derecognised upon disposal, with any gain or loss arising calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item included in the income statement in the year of disposal.
Property, plant and equipment Plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Land and buildings are also measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset as follows: Buildings 50 years or estimated length of life of the building, or lease, whichever is less to estimated residual value.
Plant, vehicles and equipment 4 to 25 years as considered appropriate to write down cost to estimated residual value on a straight-line basis over the term of their estimated useful lives.
The carrying values of plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets or cash-generating units are written down to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of plant and equipment is the greater of net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement in the depreciation and amounts written off on non-current assets line item.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal, with any gain or loss arising calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item included in the income statement in the year of disposal.
Leases Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
40 Annual Report and Accounts 5 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments, other than contingent rentals, are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Contingent rentals, which are determined by turnover or profit performance of individual hotels, are charged when incurred.
Where a minimum guarantee exists, a charge is made to the income statement, based on planned performance, to the extent that the individual hotel is expected to exceed minimum guarantee levels, or at the minimum guarantee level if there is a projected shortfall in performance.
A regular assessment is carried out, based on the actual performance of the individual hotels, and any difference is charged to the income statement.
Recoverable amount of non-current assets At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cashgenerating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Fair value estimation In the case of the convertible bond, bank loans and other loans due in more than one year, the fair value of financial liabilities, for disclosure purposes, are estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at current market interest rates, which include the credit margin used when the debt was issued.
The fair value of a derivative financial instrument is the present value of all future cash flows discounted at mid-swaps rate and is translated at the spot exchange rate.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is calculated using the first-in-first-out method.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts and deposits with an original maturity of greater than three months.
Income tax Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences: except where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor the tax profit: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Annual Report and Accounts 41 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS continued 5 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised: except where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor the tax profit: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
Income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity are recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales tax except: where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of goods and services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable: and receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales tax included.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the balance sheet.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
The amortisation of the discount is recognised as a finance cost.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Convertible bond The convertible bond is regarded as a compound instrument, consisting of a liability component and an equity component.
The component of the convertible bond that exhibits characteristics of a liability is recognised as a liability in the balance sheet, net of issue costs.
On the issue of the convertible bond, the fair value of the liability component is determined using the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt: and this amount is carried as a long-term liability on the amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or redemption.
The difference between the proceeds of issue of the convertible bond and the fair value assigned to the liability component is included in equity, representing the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the Group.
The value of the conversion option is not changed in subsequent years.
42 Annual Report and Accounts 5 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components of the convertible bond based on their relative carrying amounts at the date of issue.
The portion relating to the equity component is charged directly against equity.
The interest expense on the liability component is calculated by applying the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt to the liability component of the instrument.
The difference between this amount and the interest paid is added to the carrying amount of the convertible loan note.
Derecognition of financial instruments Financial assets The derecognition of a financial asset takes place when the Group no longer controls the contractual rights that comprise the financial asset, which is normally the case when the instrument is sold, or all the cash flows attributable to the instrument are passed through to an independent third party.
Financial liabilities A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as cross currency swaps, foreign exchange swaps and interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially accounted for at cost and subsequently re-measured to fair value.
The gains or losses on re-measurement are taken to the income statement except where the derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge or a net investment hedge.
The derivative financial instruments taken out as hedges were designated and documented as hedges on the date that the relevant derivative contract was committed to, as one of the following: A hedge of the fair value of an asset and liability fair value hedge : A hedge of the income cost of a highly probable forecasted transaction or commitment cash flow hedge : or A hedge of a net investment in a foreign entity net investment hedge.
In relation to fair value hedges that meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from re-measuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the income statement.
In relation to cash flow hedges that meet the conditions for hedge accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
When the hedged firm commitment results in the recognition of an asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the acquisition cost or other carrying amount of the asset or liability.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement in the same year in which the hedged firm commitment affects the income statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement for the year.
In relation to net investment hedges the post-tax gains or losses on the translation at the spot exchange rate of the hedged instrument are recognised in equity.
The portion of the post-tax gains or losses on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
The interest element of the fair value of the hedging instrument is taken to the income statement.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the income statement for the year.
For the accounting policy applicable under UK GAAP for the 2004 comparative information, refer to note 28 2.
Annual Report and Accounts 43 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS continued 5 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Pensions and other post-employment benefits The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes throughout the world.
The major schemes are defined benefit pension funds with assets held separately from the Group.
The pension cost relating to the defined benefit schemes is assessed in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the statement of recognised income and expenditure in the periods in which they arise.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
The Groups contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to the income statement in the period to which the contributions relate.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Dividends Dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at the year end are not recognised in the accounts until they have been approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting.
Revenue Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
The following specific recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised: Betting and Gaming Turnover is a combination of total amounts staked by customers on betting activities including Fixed Odds Betting Terminals FOBTs, number bets and sports betting and net takings from amusement with prizes machines AWPs excluding VAT.
Hotels Revenue in respect of hotel accommodation and related services is recognised at the point at which the services are rendered.
Management fees Management fees are recognised in accordance with the terms of the agreement.
Joining fees and subscriptions Joining fees and subscriptions in respect of health and fitness memberships are recognised over the membership period.
Franchise fees Franchise fees received for the provision of initial and subsequent services are recognised as revenue as the services are rendered.
Franchise fees charged for the use of continuing rights granted by the agreement, or for other services provided during the period of the agreement, are recognised as revenue as the services are provided or the rights used.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense when incurred.
Share-based payment transactions Certain employees including directors of the Group receive remuneration in the form of equity-settled share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled transactions.
Equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted.
The fair value is determined using a binomial model, further details of which are given on page 79, note 35.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of Hilton Group plc market conditions.
