16 Intangible assets continued Although licences are required to be renewed every three years, this is a formality for regulatory purposes and Ladbrokes has a very strong track record of renewing all its betting permits and licences at minimal cost.
Software relates to the cost of software acquisition and the capitalised costs in respect of internally generated software.
Goodwill relates to the deferred tax liability arising on acquisitions.
Intangible assets included in discontinued operations: The brand name comprises the cost attributed to the Hilton International brand name on its acquisition in 1987.
The carrying amount of the brand was determined by discounting the incremental cash flows generated by the brand and was limited to the excess of purchase price over the underlying net assets.
The carrying amount of the brand is maintained through marketing expenditure and development activity and is thus considered to have an indefinite life.
Hilton International has a very good track record of development activity including management contracts and more recently franchises and is one of a handful of internationally recognised hotel chains, which clearly creates high market entry barriers for potential competitors.
Capitalised goodwill relates to the acquisition of Stakis plc in 1999 and the acquisition of Scandic Hotels AB.
Subsequent to 1 January 2004, goodwill is no longer amortised and is annually tested for impairment.
Management contracts relate to the value of the management contract entered into simultaneously on disposal of hotel property.
17 Impairment testing of goodwill, brands and licences The Group tests annually for impairments, or more frequently if there are indications that licences, goodwill and the brand might be impaired.
As at 31 December 2005, the goodwill and the brand relating to the hotel division are classified as discontinued operations and no impairment testing for these assets was required.
Goodwill of 35.4m 2004: nil relating to the continuing operations is allocated to the cash generating unit that comprises the Retail Betting segment.
Licences have been allocated to the individual Retail Betting cash generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from the asset.
The carrying value of licences at 31 December 2005 was 340.4m 2004: 233.1m.
The recoverable amount of the Retail Betting CGUs are determined from value in use calculations.
To calculate this, cash flow projections covering a five-year period are based on financial budgets approved by senior management.
Cash flow projections are those achieved in the current year adjusted for expected growth.
The discount rate applied to cash flow projections is 10% 2004: 10% and cash flows beyond the budget period are extrapolated using a 2.5% growth rate 2004: 2.5%.
This rate does not exceed the average long-term growth rate for the relevant markets.
The goodwill attributable to the discontinued operations had been allocated on acquisition to the appropriate groups of hotel CGUs that were expected to benefit from the business combination.
The carrying amount of goodwill was allocated as follows as at 31 December 2004.
2004 m Carrying amount of goodwill in discontinued operations Stakis 573.7 Scandic 608.2 LivingWell 2.5 Total goodwill 1,184.4 The brand had been allocated to the Group of Hotels CGUs that are expected to benefit from the asset, all of which are part of the discontinuing operations.
2004 m Carrying amount of the brand in discontinued operations Hotels 276.7 Total brand 276.7 Annual Report and Accounts 57
