3 First-time application continued Under UK GAAP, all derivative financial instruments used for hedging purposes are recognised by applying the accrual method.
Under the accrual method, the net interest received or paid is recognised on an accrual basis in the Groups income statement.
The notional principal of an interest rate swap is recorded off balance sheet.
For cross currency swaps, the swapped currency is recorded on the balance sheet.
Changes in the derivatives fair values are not recognised.
IAS 32 and IAS 39 address the accounting for financial instruments.
IAS 32 covers disclosure and presentation whilst IAS 39 covers recognition and measurement.
IAS 39 requires the measurement, at fair value, of a wide range of financial assets and liabilities and derivatives.
The accounting for the movements in fair value is dependent on the designation of the relevant financial instrument as part of a hedging relationship.
For derivatives, any changes in fair value are accounted for in income immediately unless the derivative is part of a designated hedging relationship.
Under IAS 39, the Groups 300m convertible bond is required to be split into debt and equity components, net of issue costs.
Under UK GAAP, the convertible bond was recorded at nominal value.
The effect of adopting IAS 39 at 1 January 2005 is shown as a movement in Hilton Group shareholders equity for 2005.
The adoption of these new standards has resulted in a change to the Groups accounting policy as described in note 4.
4 Changes in accounting policies The Group has adopted the new and revised standards mandatory for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
The changes in accounting policies result from adoption of the following new or revised standards: IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation: IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
The principal effects of these changes in policies are discussed below.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement The Group adopted IAS 32 Financial Instruments, Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments, Recognition and Measurement on 1 January 2005.
The transitional rules of IAS 32 and IAS 39 have not been applied since Hilton Group plc has adopted the relief provided by IFRS 1 regarding the restatement of the comparative information.
