3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award vesting date.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the number of awards that, in the opinion of the directors of the Company at that date, based on the best available estimate of the number of equity instruments, ultimately vest.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Pensions The Company is the principal employer of the Hilton Group Pension Plan, a funded defined benefit Group plan.
The pension cost relating to the scheme is assessed in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries using the projected credit unit method.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly in equity in the periods in which they arise.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
The Companys contributions to the scheme are fully recharged to the other employers participating in the scheme.
Onerous contracts Provision is made for future rental expenses and related costs of leasehold property net of estimated sublease income where space is either vacant or not planned to be used for ongoing operations.
Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
ESOP trusts Where the Company holds its own equity shares through an ESOP trust these shares are shown as a reduction in equity.
Any consideration paid or received for the purchase or sale of these shares is shown in the reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds and no gain or loss is recognised within the profit and loss account or directly in equity on the purchase, sale or cancellation of these shares.
4 Profit and loss account of the parent Company As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the profit and loss account of the parent Company has not been separately presented in these accounts.
The parent Company profit for the year was 702.7m 2004 restated: 195.1m.
5 Dividends paid and proposed 2005 2004 Pence per share pence pence Interim 3.80 3.60 Final 6.60 6.00 10.40 9.60 A final dividend of 6.60p per share 2004: 6.00p amounting to a total dividend of 106.0m 2004: 95.9m was declared by the directors at their meeting on 22 February 2006.
In addition the Board also proposes a special dividend of 233.40p which will be paid at the same time as the final dividend of 6.60p.
These accounts do not reflect these dividends payable.
The 2004 final dividend of 6.00p 95.9m and the 2005 interim dividend of 3.80p 60.9m were paid in 2005.
