32 Employee share ownership plans The Hilton Group Share Ownership Trust HGSOT is used in connection with the Companys Executive Deferred Bonus Plan the Plan.
The HGSOT may also be used in connection with the Companys other share-based plans, including the Hilton Group International Share Option Scheme.
The Trustee of the HGSOT, Computershare Trustees CI Limited, purchases the Companys shares in the open market, as required, on the basis of regular reviews of the anticipated liabilities of the Group, with financing provided by the Company.
Under the Plan, awards of shares are made either in the form of conditional shareholdings for UK executives or nil priced options for overseas executives once the bonuses for the year ending 31 December have been finalised.
Awards will vest two years after the award date.
Shares in the trust have been conditionally gifted to employees.
Shares are forfeited by employees who leave, other than for specified reasons, within the vesting period.
All expenses of the HGSOT are settled directly by the Company and charged in the accounts as incurred.
The Hilton Group plc Employee Share Ownership Plan HGESOP is currently used in connection with the Companys OWN share plan the OWN plan.
The trustee of the HGESOP, Computershare Trustees Limited, purchases the Companys shares in the open market, as required, using i deductions made from the salaries of participants in the OWN plan and ii dividends paid on the shares held by the HGESOP.
To match those shares acquired using participants salary deductions, one additional share is issued by the Company to the trust for every two held per employee.
These shares are forfeited by employees who leave, other than for specified reasons, within the one year conditional vesting period.
As at 31 December 2005, the HGESOP held 891,020 shares of which all are held on behalf of OWN plan participants.
All expenses of the HGESOP are settled directly by the Company and charged in the accounts as incurred.
The Stakis 1998 Employee Share Ownership Trust SEST was used in connection with the Stakis plc 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme the Stakis scheme.
At 31 December 2005 the SEST held 103,722 shares which did not back any options.
Dividends payable on these shares have been waived.
All expenses of the SEST are settled directly by the Company and charged in the accounts as incurred.
The following table shows the number of shares held in trust which have not yet vested unconditionally, and the associated reduction in shareholders funds.
HGSOT HGESOP SEST Total Shares Cost of Shares Cost of Shares Cost of Shares Cost of held shares held shares held shares held shares No.
