com Shareholder information Lonmins shares are quoted on the London and Johannesburg Transcontinental Automated Payment System TAPS stock exchanges, and ADRs representing Lonmin shares are TAPS permits shareholders resident in certain countries to receive also traded in an over-the-counter market in the USA.
dividend payments to their local bank and in their local currency.
All eligible shareholders have been or will be sent information on UK share register information TAPS by Lloyds TSB Registrars.
All holdings of the companys shares are maintained on the companys UK share register, with the exception of those held Dividend Reinvestment Plan on the South African branch register.
The register is administered A Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP is available through which by Lloyds TSB Registrars, who offer a range of shareholder eligible shareholders may invest the whole of their cash dividends in information online, including facilities to check shareholdings, additional Lonmin Plc shares.
Shareholders on the registers on the update personal details and cast votes at general meetings record date for the recommended final dividend, 13 January 2006, as well as providing practical help on transferring shares at may participate in the plan in respect of that dividend, provided their www.
Up-to-date information on the Company application forms are received by 25 January 2006.
Copies of is contained in the Companys website at www.
com, the DRIP brochure and application form have been sent to eligible which also includes a link to the registrars website.
shareholders on the registers up to 8 July 2005 and are being sent to those who are newly entered on the registers between then and South African branch register information 13 January 2006.
Further copies are available from the registrars The South African branch register is administered by or can be downloaded from the registrars website.
Computershare Investor Services 2004 Pty Limited.
American depositary receipts ADRs Contact details for both registrars can be found in Corporate The company has a sponsored Level 1 ADR programme for Information on page 70. which The Bank of New York acts as the depositary.
Each ADR represents one ordinary share of the company.
The ADRs trade Dividends in the over-the-counter OTC market under the symbol LOMNY.
Currency of dividends When dividends are paid to shareholders, the depositary makes The Company declares dividends in US dollars.
Subject to the equivalent payment in US dollars to ADR holders.
shareholder approval, the final dividend of 42 cents per share for the year ended 30 September 2005 will be paid on 8 February Contact details can be found in Corporate Information on page 70.
2006 to shareholders on the registers at the close of business on 13 January 2006.
The dividend will be paid in sterling to UK Further information for UK domiciled shareholders shareholders unless they elect to receive US dollar dividends Capital Gains Tax calculated at the US dollar to sterling exchange rate on 20 January For capital gains tax purposes, shareholders disposing of shares in 2006 and in Rand to shareholders on the SA branch register either Lonmin Plc or Lonrho Africa Plc after 7 May 1998, who held calculated at the US dollar to Rand exchange rate on 29 December shares prior to that date, should apportion the base cost of their 2005.
The dividend will be paid in US dollars to all other overseas original Lonmin Plc shares between the two companies.
Based on shareholders unless they elect to receive sterling dividends or the closing share prices on 7 May 1998 of Lonmin Plc and Lonrho have mandated their dividend payments to a UK bank or Africa Plc, this apportionment would be 80.49% for Lonmin Plc participate in TAPS.
Elections to receive an alternative currency and 19.50% for Lonrho Africa Plc.
US dollars or sterling should comprise a signed request to Lloyds TSB Registrars at the address shown on page 70 to be received The Companys capital reduction was completed on 22 February by 5.00 p. m. on 13 January 2006.
For the purposes of assessing any liability to capital gains tax, UK-shareholders should apportion 13.33% of the base cost Dividend payment to your bank account of their original shareholding to the capital reduction and the The company can pay UK registered shareholders dividends balance to their-new holding of ordinary shares of $1 each.
direct to their bank or building society account.
This means that dividends will normally be in shareholders accounts on the same day as the payment is made and tax vouchers will be posted to the shareholders registered addresses.
Shareholders wishing to adopt this method of payment should contact the registrars.
71 Shareholder information The market price of Lonmin Plc ordinary shares at 31 March 1982 was 38.9 pence as adjusted for subsequent capitalisation issues, and 155.6 pence as adjusted for the consolidation of the Companys shares on 24 April 1998 and 125.3 pence as adjusted for the fide-merger of Lonrho Africa Plc on 7 May 1998.
Lonmin Corporate Individual Savings Accounts ISAs Carr Sheppards Crosthwaite offers the Lonmin Corporate Stocks & Shares ISA from which dividend income and capital gains are completely-free of UK tax for investment in Lonmin Plc shares.
UK registered shareholders may subscribe to the Lonmin CorporateISA up to-a maximum currently of 7,000 annually for a maxi ISA or alternatively one stocks-and-shares mini ISA of 3,000, by direct transfer of eligible employee shares and or by sale and reinvestment of existing Lonmin Plc shares.
Contact details can be found in Corporate Information on page 70.
Carr-Sheppards Crosthwaite is regulated by the FSA.
This is not a recommendation that shareholders should subscribe to the ISA.
The advantages of holding shares in an ISA vary according to individual circumstances and shareholders who are in any doubt should consult their financial adviser.
ShareGift Lonmin is proud to support ShareGift, an independent charity share donation scheme administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation registered charity number 1052686.
Those shareholders who hold only a small number of shares, the value of which make them uneconomic to sell, can donate the shares to ShareGift who will sell them and donate the proceeds to a wide range of charities.
Further information about ShareGift can be obtained from their website at www.
org and a ShareGift transfer form can be downloaded from the Companys website.
Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2005 72 Transformation delivers Our Business Lonmin is the worlds third largest primary Platinum producer.
Our Marikana operations are located on the western limb of South Africas Bushveld complex and we have recently acquired a mine near Zebedelia in South Africas Limpopo province.
We are committed to transforming our business to deliver value to all our stakeholders.
We would like to thank Musa Percy Khumalo, Metals Account Clerk, Precious Metals Refinery, whose photograph appears on the front cover.
growth, value and empowerment Contents 1 Financial Highlights 2 Financial Review 7 Directors Report 10 Corporate Governance 15 Remuneration Committee Report 28 Audit Committee Report 31 Nomination Committee Report 32 Auditors Report 33 Consolidated profiit and loss account 34 Consolidated balance sheet 35 Consolidated cash flow statement 35 Net cash inflow from operating activities 36 Statement of total consolidated recognised gains and losses 36 Consolidated historical cost profits and losses 36 Reconciliation of movement in equity shareholders funds 37 Lonmin Plc company balance sheet 38 Notes to the accounts 68 Principal Group companies 69 Five year financial record 70 Corporate information 71 Shareholder information Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2005 Lonmin Plc Lonmin Plc 4 Grosvenor Place Annual Report London SW1X 7YL For the year ending 30 September 2005 Transformation delivers www.
com Lonmin Plc Annual Review For the year ending 30 September 2005 Transformation delivers Transformation delivers Our Business at a Glance Lonmin is the worlds third largest primary platinum producer.
Our four mines are located in South Africa, three in the Marikana area and one in Limpopo province.
We process the 916,420 concentrate from our mines through Ounces of Platinum produced our Smelter and Refineries to deliver finished metal to market.
2005 2004 Profits Turnover $1,128m $1,030m continuing operations $1,122m $1,030m acquisitions $6m Total operating profit loss $353m $261m continuing operations $363m $303m acquisitions $ 10 m discontinued operations $ 42 m 1 Underlying earnings per share 116.4c 96.9c continuing operations 124.9c 96.9c acquisitions 8.5 c Earnings per share 115.0c 137.9c continuing operations 127.0c 88.4c acquisitions 12.0 c discontinued operations 49.5c 2 Dividends per share 72.0c 72.0c Cash flow Trading cash flow per share 191.2c 229.2c continuing operations 204.6c 229.2c acquisitions 13.4 c Free cash flow per share 39.5c 70.7c continuing operations 54.3c 70.7c acquisitions 14.8 c Balance sheet Equity shareholders funds $812m $744m Net borrowings $588m $275m 3 Interest cover 13.9 times 30.4 times 4 Gearing 41% 27% 1 Underlying earnings per share are calculated on attributable profit excluding exchange, the effect of a change in the South African tax rate on the opening deferred tax balance, exceptional items and reorganisation costs as disclosed in note 9 to the accounts.
2 The Board recommends a final dividend of 42.0 cents payable on 8 February 2006 to shareholders on the registers on 13 January 2006.
3 Interest cover is calculated on Group operating profit excluding exceptional items divided by net interest excluding exchange.
4 Gearing is calculated on the net borrowings attributable to the Group divided by the net borrowings attributable to the Group plus equity shareholders funds.
growth, value and Contents 1 Our Business at a Glance 2 Chairmans Statement 4 Chief Executives Review 10 Our Operations 18 Sustainable Development 20 Our People 22 Our Board 24 Our Markets 26 Operating Statistics 28 Corporate Information www.
com 2,243 20,824 Cost R of own Marikana Workers covered by New Era production per PGM ounce Labour Agreement net of by product credits empowerment Transformation delivers Chairmans Statement Dear Shareholders, development of our Marikana to working closely with him as he operations has given us a strong develops the Incwala business.
The year to 30 September 2005 production growth profile.
We are has been a transformational one for now expecting production for 2006 The current focus in South Africa is on Lonmin as we have continued our of around 1 million ounces of Platinum.
the development of beneficiation in the journey to the creation of a world We are targeting around 1.3 million South African mining industry.
We are class mining company.
Lonmin ounces of Platinum production keen to work with the Government today has a clear pathway to in 2010. in this area to seek solutions which achieve growth and a strategy truly benefit South Africa and South to deliver value to all shareholders.
Hand in hand with our growth profile, Africans.
As a company we already the management team is transforming provide over 10% of our total PGM We have achieved a great deal the Lonmin businesses into a model production a year to be used for during the year.
In November 2004 of operational excellence in areas autocatalyst manufacture in Port we adopted our Charter which sets such as safety, productivity and Elizabeth in South Africa.
In addition out clearly Lonmins mission and the costs.
This process will take time and we are continually seeking innovative values which drive the Company, the will not be without its ups and downs ways to beneficiate in terms of job Board and our employees.
Operational but is essential if we are to continue creation opportunities around our results for the year are covered in the to be successful in a South African mines.
To this end in October 2005, Chief Executives Review but I would environment of rising cost inflation we signed a unique partnership like to extend my thanks to the and a continued strong Rand.
agreement with Sandvik Mining & management team and all of Lonmins Construction, the provider of our employees and contractors who have As a South African based business mechanised equipment.
Under the worked very hard during the year, we are committed to deliver the terms of this partnership Sandvik has especially in the wake of Novembers requirements of the Mining Charter.
agreed to work with us to develop jobs smelter explosion to allow us to We have made considerable around the mines by expanding its recover production and control progress in this area during the service delivery in the area and is our costs.
year and believe we have complied also assessing the possibility of with all the requirements for the manufacturing equipment locally.
We set out at the beginning of the year conversion of our mining licences to to identify further areas for growing new order mining licences.
Our Black During the year the market for our key the Lonmin business.
On 22 March Economic Empowerment Partner, output Platinum has remained strong.
2005 we announced an offer for the Incwala Resources has continued On the demand side the growth in shares of Southern Platinum Corp. to provide invaluable support and demand for autocataysts continues a Canadian company which was the guidance in this area during the year.
to be driven by emissions legislation majority owner of the Messina mine In July 2005 Ian Farmer relinquished which is both tightening in the near Polokwane in South Africas his position as acting Chief Executive developed world and being introduced Limpopo Province.
The offer was of Incwala and the Incwala Board by developing countries.
Industrial successful and added to our portfolio appointed Arne H Frandsen, uses of Platinum have also seen strong a resource base in excess of 20 million previously of JP Morgan Chase, as growth this year with applications such ounces to a depth of 1,000 metres.
We welcome as the use of Platinum kilns for flat This acquisition plus the continued Arne to his new role and look forward glass manufacture expanding.
Supply Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2005 www.
com... clear strategy has been constrained with the strength Shell International Renewables joined in cost control, safety, productivity, of the Rand limiting the development of us in April and Dr Sivi Gounden, community relationships, sustainable projects in South Africa.
We see those currently Chief Executive of Bateman development and labour relations.
dynamics continuing in 2006 giving Engineering BV joined us in October.
I look forward to this process another strong year for the market.
I welcome them both to the Board continuing in 2006 as we deliver on and look forward to continuing to our stated strategy to grow value.
n The Palladium market remains in work with them in the future.
fundamental oversupply and is likely to continue to do so over the next Lonmin has made substantial year as the heavily loaded Palladium progress during the year and I would catalysts of the 1990s are recycled.
like, on behalf of the non-executives The market for Rhodium has been on the Board, to congratulate the Sir John Craven very strong during 2005.
With 85% chief executive and his team on all Chairman of Rhodium demand coming from the they have achieved in the financial 15 November 2005 autocatalyst industry it has benefitted year to 30 September 2005.
The from the same positive dynamics management team has our continued driving Platinum.
wholehearted support as they continue the transformation of the We have appointed two non-executive Lonmin business into a world class directors to the Lonmin Board in the mining company, delivering on our past year Karen fide Segundo, growth strategy and focusing the formerly Chief Executive Officer of Company on achieving best practice Transformation delivers Chief Executives Review Dear Shareholders, have achieved a new annual record Operational excellence smelting performance despite the Operational excellence embodies the Lonmin today is on a journey to explosion.
The lessons learned in this concept of benchmarking yourself become a world class natural incident have broad application to against the best performing assets in resources company.
This journey how we run the Company and class in the world and being judged entails rethinking all of our systems, manage change.
This is structures and symbols to enable us the business equivalent of being a to be benchmarked against the best 2005 Financial Results top 10 Olympic athlete.
Our goal is operations in the world and deliver For the year to 30 September 2005, to achieve this level of operational the expectations of the South African turnover increased by $98 million to fitness by introducing the practices Government for transformational $1,128 million as a decrease in sales and disciplines that the best change.
volumes was more than offset by a companies in the world employ 17% increase in the average price to achieve excellent outcomes.
The elements we need to achieve are: realised for our basket of metals Operational excellence in safety, sold.
From continuing operations, Safety production, cost control and asset excluding the effect of the Limpopo No company can be judged excellent integrity: acquisition, EBITDA was up 18.8% to if its employees suffer serious injuries Outstanding employee enrolment: $424 million and underlying earnings in the workplace.
While for safety Excellence in environmental per share increased from 96.9 cents Lonmin is rated as one of the top performance and community per share in 2004 to 124.9 cents performing mining companies in engagement: and per share.
South Africa we regrettably suffered Clarity of reporting and good six employee fatalities at our corporate governance, Net borrowings amounted to $588 Marikana operations during the all aligned with a clear strategic million at 30 September 2005 with financial year.
This is a decrease from direction.
the main component being the the previous year but no number convertible bonds of $216 million and other than zero serious injuries and Through this Review we will report our bank loans including the facility for fatalities is acceptable.
progress on our journey to achieve the purchase of Southern Platinum these goals.
The financial year did not of $382 million.
Gearing was To address the safety issues in our get off to the best start when, on 18 41% compared with 27% at operations we have introduced a November 2004, we experienced a 30 September 2004. number of key new programmes steam explosion in our No.
1 furnace including comprehensive fatal risk that stopped all throughput for nine Net cash inflow from operating operational protocols, detailed weeks.
This accident, our second in activities was $377 million during investigations of all safety incidents, two years, caused us to do some 2005, a 6% decrease on last years DuPont Visible Felt Leadership safety deep soul searching about how we figure of $400 million.
After interest and training, mid-shift safety breaks and run our operations and manage our finance costs of $27 million and tax significantly greater safety auditing risks.
With the help of external payments of $79 million, trading cash by management.
consultants and using our in house flow amounted to $271 million.
Capital Six Sigma team we completely expenditure was of $190 million and Production reformed how we operate our smelter.
dividends of $102 million 72 cents per Our goal for the year was to produce As a consequence of this work, we share were paid during the year.
The Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2005 www.
com operational excellence smelter accident in November At Limpopo we are in the process of as costs in South Africa have been made it look as though there was implementing a comprehensive rampsteadily rising.
A key part of our journey no possibility of achieving anything up plan that will raise production to to achieve operational excellence has close to that number and we had 75,000 Platinum ounces per year been to refocus our strategy on cost to re-evaluate all of our mining and by 2007.
Progress with this plan is control to ensure we manage our cost processing plans to develop a on schedule.
This year Limpopo base whatever the Rand US dollar comprehensive recovery plan.
We contributed 11,524 ounces of Platinum exchange rate.
have executed this plan well as the and 25,741 ounces of PGMs to our year has progressed and we finished total production in slightly over three At the beginning of the year we the year with overall production of months of production.
introduced a number of initiatives to 916,420 ounces of Platinum and control costs.
The most important of 1,704,249 ounces of PGMs.
Costs these is the introduction of a Six Sigma Although Lonmin has always been programme in all our operations.
Six Looking forward, we will continue to the lowest cost primary Platinum Sigma is a data driven continuous ramp up our underground production producer, the traditional driver for the improvement programme which can from our new shaft development business was to maximise production.
be applied to evaluate any repetitive and match our Marikana mining rate This attitude worked well in an process to assess how things can be to a long-term production profile of environment where the Rand was very done more efficiently.
We have been around 1 million ounces of Platinum weak against the US dollar.
In the last very pleased with the contribution from per annum.
few years the Rand has strengthened the Six Sigma programme in 2005 against the US dollar at the same time which delivered R206 million of net Transformation delivers Chief Executives Review benefit.
The Six Sigma programme operate the smelter and allowed us to Management is key to building a high is continuing to gain traction in the fide-bottleneck this part of the system.
To this end we business and we expect further As is often the case, removal of one have made a number of changes to substantial additional benefits of bottleneck shows up others in different our team in the last year.
I would like R300 million in 2006. parts of the operation and we have to welcome Alistair Ross to the role identified further areas for work of President, Platinum Operations, We are changing our cost reporting both downstream in our refineries Khumo Seopela as Vice President, to more accurately reflect the and upstream in our mines and Platinum, Human Capital, Alex performance of our continuing concentrators.
We will work to continue Shorland-Ball as Vice President, operations and bring us in line with to address these during 2006.
Investor Relations & Communications, international standards for cost Ricus Grimbeek as Vice President, reporting in the gold industry.
Our Employee enrolment Mines, Marikana, Barnard Mokwena C1 cost of metal production from Our employees are one of our core as Group Manager, Platinum, continuing operations net of base assets as well as our largest cost.
We Corporate Communications and metal by product credits was R2,243 need them to be fully engaged in the Mohlaba Makumbila as Group in 2005 versus R2,186 in 2004. business and its success.
These changes have due to language difficulties and the significantly strengthened our team.
In 2006 we will continue to increase paradigm of cheap labour, Lonmins In the coming year we will continue our focus on cost control and are relationship with its employees was in to look at the strength of our targeting C1 costs of our metal the command and control style with management team and make production from our Marikana little attempt made to create a team changes where necessary.
operations net of by product credits atmosphere or to really engage of between R2,300 to R2,400 per with people.
We are committed Environmental excellence and PGM ounce.
to addressing this by improving community engagement communication with our employees Mining by its nature has great Asset integrity and and creating team based structures.
potential to impact the environment.
fide-bottlenecking In areas where we have effective For Lonmin to be judged excellent, we Asset integrity and the fideteams working, we have seen need to be sure that as a company bottlenecking of our operations are dramatic improvements in both we are living in harmony with our key to Lonmin achieving the level of costs and productivity.
neighbours in our local community operational fitness required for us to and causing no permanent harm to reach our goal of becoming world We signed the groundbreaking New the environment.
We need to be sure that each Era Labour Agreement in June which of our operations is running to its came into force on 1 October 2005.
During 2005 we have made optimum potential and delivering This agreement gives us five years substantial progress both with our efficient performance.
We identified to develop our relationship with our environmental performance and the smelter as the key bottleneck of our employees.
The Agreements basic local community relationships.
Every dollar we make passes principle is to engage our employees We introduced our Safety, Health, through the smelter and any problem in our business case through the Environment and Community SHEC with the smelter grinds our whole implementation of a gain sharing policy in December 2004 and have process to a halt as was shown by programme that pays a bonus for created a separate function to the accident.
The realisation of this safety, cost improvements and monitor these areas.
and the work we undertook following better production.
the explosion changed the way we Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2005 www.
com asset integrity All our sites have retained ISO 14001 we directed our support to the GLC.
We adopted our Code of Business certification for the year and we have In response to the GLCs wishes Ethics in November 2004 and a achieved our 2005 environmental we are working with the Lonmin copy can be found on our website.
targets including developing and Development Trust to reformulate its To accompany this Code we have implementing corporate guidelines strategy to more closely align its aims introduced a whistle blowers policy for biodiversity.
which came into force in May 2005.
Under this policy we have employed At the beginning of the year we set Reporting and corporate an independent company to run a out to improve our communication governance hotline which is totally anonymous and relationship with the communities Without achieving best practice in through which employees, around our mines and in January reporting and corporate governance contractors or suppliers can report 2005 we began the process of we can never reach our goal of any wrongdoing.
engaging with the communities with becoming a world class natural our first stakeholder forum.
In November Black Economic Empowerment was attended by people from the 2004 we adopted our Charter which The South African Government is community, representatives of local incorporates the values that Lonmin involved in a process to address government, the tribal authority as well and its employees live by.
A copy of legacy issues in terms of the uneven as Lonmin management.
This group the Charter is inside the back cover distribution of wealth and opportunity created the concept of the Greater of this Review.
A truly excellent in the country post apartheid.
Lonmin Community GLC and also business will also have in place a As a company we support the voiced some issues with the way policy on Business Ethics to govern Governments aims and are Lonmin was perceived and the way its conduct and that of its employees.
committed to delivering the Transformation delivers Chief Executives Review requirements of the Mining Charter.
With these insights, we believe that employees and the local communities.
We welcome the opportunity to we can create substantial value We have a clear strategic direction transform Lonmin into a model for if we can grow our core Platinum and strong growth profile with which fairness and equality in the new business.
The key to achieving this to deliver value to our stakeholders South Africa.
growth is to identify and capture and I look forward to our continued high quality resources that can be progress in 2006.
We worked hard during 2005 to gain developed with Lonmins technical our new order mining licences and and operational capabilities.
In I would like to finish by thanking all of although this has not yet been Southern Platinum we saw an Lonmins employees and contractors achieved we have made considerable opportunity to capture just such who have worked hard during the year progress with our Social and Labour an asset and we took control of the to achieve the progress we have made.
Through 2006 Messina Mine now renamed Lonmin Your professionalism and dedication our focus on this area will continue as Platinum Limpopo on 15 June 2005. has been much appreciated.
n we work towards achieving the Social and Labour Plan targets.
Discussions Our clear strategy gives us a strong with our local Klerksdorp office of the growth profile and will allow us to Department of Minerals and Energy achieve around 1 million ounces of in relation to the conversion of our Platinum in 2006.
We are targeting Marikana mining licences continue around 1.3 million ounces of Bradford A Mills and we thank them for all their help Platinum production in 2010.
Chief Executive and assistance with the process.
We 15 November 2005 believe we now have in place all the This year has seen Lonmin make elements to achieve the conversion of considerable progress on our journey our mining licence.
of transforming into a world class natural resources company.
The Strategy smelter accident in November 2004 Based on a thorough review of could have set us back severely but the minerals and metals markets, we used this experience as a learning we have confirmed our view that opportunity to recovery successfully.
Platinum is likely to be one of the best We have come out of the experience performing commodities over the next with a reformed smelter which is five years and beyond.
We also believe delivering a record performance.
We that due to the concentration of are on track to achieve our goal of Platinum assets and production in operational excellence in the areas of South Africa, there is a natural hedge safety, production and cost control relationship between the US dollar and have made substantial steps Platinum price and the Rand.
forward in our relationship with our Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2005 www.
com transparency Transformation delivers Our Operations This year we have continued to transform Lonmin as we implement our strategy to grow the value of our Platinum business and achieve operational excellence.
We have laid the foundations for controlling our costs as we grow production in 2006.
A N G O L A Z A M B I A M A L A W I In May, we started to outline to the market our strategy for growing the value of our Platinum business.
This Z I M B A B W E breaks down into four key areas: B O T S W A N A Maximising the value of our core assets.
We are implementing three key N A M I B I A projects, Six Sigma, Shared Business Services and Limpopo operations Mechanisation and Automation Marikana operations which will be instrumental in controlling our cost base.
Identifying and capturing quality Rustenburg Pretoria resources and extracting the Johannesburg maximum benefit from these whether through further S W A Z I L A N D acquisitions or exploration.
A programme of transformation initiatives which underpin this entire strategy.
As we refocus the Lonmin culture on safety, L E S O T H O S O U T H A F R I C A productivity, costs, teamwork, profitability and employee and community engagement.
We have continued to work during the year to implement this strategy BUSHVELD COMPLEX and transform the Lonmin business.
Lonmin Platinum Limpopo Production Total production for the year was 916,420 ounces of Platinum and 1,704,249 ounces of PGMs.
Underground production from our mines at Marikana was 11,101,656 tonnes milled.
We have continued Brits to decrease the amount of opencast Lonmin ore which we mine to replace Platinum these higher cost ounces with Rustenburg Marikara Pretoria lower cost underground ounces Transvaal Sequence in our production pipeline.
Opencast Granite, Granophyre, felsite, leptite produced a total of 2,444,581 tonnes Upper Zone milled a decrease of 25.5% on last Upper Critical Zone and Main Zone year.
We expect this trend to continue Alkaline Complexes and are currently forecasting the phase Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2005 0 www.
com solid growth CASE STUDY Limpopo The Road to Zero Harm Considerable improvements in safety have been made at our new Limpopo operations both through improving operating discipline and changing the mining method from steep out of our current UG2 opencast versus our shallow dipping seams raises to apparent dip raises.
operations at Markiana during 2006. in Marikana which dip at around 10 In addition, we built a substantial degrees.
The steeply dipping ore body On day one we halted operations to conduct stockpile of opencast ore to carry our lends itself to mechanised mining and a thorough clean-up of all areas and fix submilling operations through periods of we have begun the process of restandard conditions.
A serious accident some seasonally low mine production which engineering the mine to allow for full two days into our ownership gave us a strong generally occur around holidays.
Our integration is on real life example to help educate employees and track and in line with our targets.
In the all employees attended one day workshops on On 22 March 2005, we announced 15 weeks from 15 June 2005, Limpopo Zero Harm which used DuPont industrial theatre an offer for the shares of Southern produced 214,000 tonnes ore milled to to highlight accidents and their causes.
Platinum Corp. Southern Platinum, give 11,524 ounces of Platinum and the owner of Messina mine near 25,741 ounces of PGMs for the period.
Strong visibility of management leading by Polokwane on the Eastern Limb of the The cost per saleable ounce in example is key and we have instigated a practice Bushveld.
We were attracted to the concentrate over period was of of unexpected management audits to check asset because of the quality of the R4,102 per PGM ounce contained safety.
The change has been dramatic with a resource base with 20 million ounces in concentrate.
The mine recorded substantial reduction in LTIs, only 13 since we of PGMs to a depth of 1,000 metres a positive EBITDA for September took control and in the severity of incidents.
We in line with our target.
took control of the mine on 15 June 2005 and renamed it Lonmin Platinum On 18 November 2004 we suffered Limpopo.
The current mine on the a steam explosion at our No.
1 Limpopo property is relatively small furnace when water entered through with a strike length of just 4 kilometres.
the roof of the furnace following the dislodgement of a water cooling pipe.
Limpopo is very different to our existing Marikana mines with an ore body which dips at around 58 degrees Transformation delivers Our Operations We have seen a significant breakthrough in the way we run our smelter this year and are now achieving record levels of throughput.
The smelters strong performance has allowed us to process a record number of ounces through our smelter and refineries during the year.
1 furnace and also, if required, Smelter throughput to provide additional capacity.
25,000 22,500 Production through our Base Monthly average 20,000 Metal Refinery and Precious Metal 17,500 Refinery aided by the strong smelter 15,000 performance resulted in a record 12,500 1,510,533 ounces of PGMs being 10,000 produced through the system.
We have further capacity in both refineries 7,500 and will continue with the process of 5,000 fide-bottlenecking these areas in 2006.
2,500 0 2003 2004 2005 Oct 04 Nov 04 Dec 04 Jan 05 Feb 05 Mar 05 Apr 05 May 05 Jun 05 Jul 05 Aug 05 Sep 05 The addition of the Limpopo resource to our growth plan and a continued evaluation of our Marikana property The explosion resulted in the tonnes smelted through the No.
1 has allowed us to increase our destruction of the furnace roof and furnace over the last six months of production profile to around 1 million damage to the electrodes and other the financial year.
The incident led to a targetting around 1.3 million ounces loss of nine weeks of production.
1 furnace we have of Platinum for 2010.
1 furnace came back on also run our two Pyromet furnaces, includes a contribution from the line on 20 January 2005.
The final for eight months during the year both Phase 2 development at Limpopo cost of the smelter accident and during the shut down of No.
1 furnace on which we are currently conducting repairs including the cost of running and since April 2005 to assist us in a feasibility study.
the Pyromet furnaces and toll maximising production.
The Pyromets refining was $14 million.
have smelted 32,263 tonnes during Since acquiring Limpopo we have the year.
We intend to continue to use identified a possible opencast We identified the smelter as the key our Pyromet furnaces in the future operation to access the ore body bottleneck of our business and spent both during planned shutdowns of which could add additional ounces time with both external consultants and using our in house Six Sigma expertise to collect and analyse data Production growth proles on the operation of our No.
250 1,600 This data indicated the key unplanned Marikana 225 1,500 reasons for the low levels of availability Limpopo Phase 1 and utilisation we were experiencing.
200 1,400 Limpopo Phase 2 Subject to feasibility Approved Capex A Six Sigma project was set up to 175 1,300 Indicative for Limpopo Phase 2 study these issues and recommended Marikana Approved Capex 150 1,200 certain changes, which we have 125 1,100 implemented.
These changes have 100 1,000 had a dramatic effect on the furnace 75 900 increasing throughput substantially.
1 furnace is now consistently recording record levels of throughput 0 600 with an average of over 18,000 total 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2005 Tonnes smelted $ million Pt ounces 000 www.
com cost control CASE STUDY Six Sigma Reforms Healthcare At the Occupational Health Department of Western Platinum hospital the Six Sigma team conducted a Kaizen event which resulted in an estimated annualised saving of R7.28 million.
Employees come periodically for a number of to our current growth profile for the This includes the reserves and checks including a physical examination, eye test, mine.
We are currently undertaking resources of Lonmin Platinum Limpopo.
lung function test, audiogram, chest x-ray and a feasibility study on opencast urine analysis.
production and will make a decision For full details of the mineral reserves as to whether to proceed early in and resources visit www.
The team found the procedures and patient 2006.
This project has the potential flow at the Occupational Health centre were to contribute around 20,000 ounces PGMs and gold troy inefficient.
This resulted in long waiting times of Platinum per annum over the next ounces millions with on average each examination taking five two years.
00 2004 hours and ultimately lost shifts.
Restated Additional upside potential to our Mineral reserves By revising and streamlining the procedures growth profile is also offered by our Proven.
2.10 and processes, the Six Sigma team were Pandora Joint Venture on which we Probable.
61.10 able to greatly increase the efficiency of the continue to keep a watching brief and Total.
Reducing by more than half the time our portfolio of exploration projects Mineral resources taken for each Occupational Health which are reviewed on page 16.
n will also, in line with our stated strategy, continue to evaluate other acquisition Note: The grade and metal content for 2005 has been calculated as 3PGE&Au for 2005, compared to opportunities in the PGM space.
5PGE&Au in 2004, accordingly the 2004 comparison has been restated to reflect 3PGE&Au.
Mineral reserves and resources Total proven and probable reserves of PGMs 3PGE plus Gold at Capital expenditure 30 September 2005 were 59.54 million For the financial year our capital ounces compared to 63.20 million expenditure was $190 million which ounces at 30 September 2004 and includes $12 million on our new ERP resources were 83.80 million ounces.
projects and $3 million for Limpopo.
Transformation delivers Our Operations Our continuous improvement programme, Six Sigma has achieved significant net benefits for the business of R206 million during the year well ahead of our targets.
One of the key successes has been the improvement in our smelter throughput.
We expect further substantial benefits in 2006.
At Marikana development continues operations net of Base Metal credits R206 million net benefit this year well on our three major projects, Hossy was R2,243 per PGM ounce versus ahead of the R70 million we forecast Shaft, Saffy Shaft and K4 Shaft.
Hossy a like-for-like cost of R2,186 per PGM at the time of the interim results.
Shaft is the most advanced of the ounce in financial year 2004.
Our projects and continues to be on time costs were impacted by the smelter We are currently training six Master and on budget with full production explosion and we have worked hard Black Belts.
Once this training is expected in 2008. to manage them as we recovered from complete by spring 2006 the Lonmin this incident against a challenging cost Six Sigma programme will be self In light of our commitment to environment in South Africa.
We mechanisation we have decided to recontinue to work to fully embed Six assess Hossy, Saffy and K4 shafts to We are committed to controlling our Sigma within the operations and determine whether we can mechanise costs and have introduced three key currently estimate the programme the whole of each shaft complex from projects to achieve this: will deliver further additional benefits day one.
of R300 million for the full year to different development methodology Shared Services.
30 September 2006. for accessing the ore body, waste Mechanisation & Automation.
development is eliminated, the number Shared Business Services of conventional levels is reduced and In addition our New Era Labour During 2005 we began the process the ramp-up to production is quicker.
Agreement now gives us 5 years of introducing a Shared Business At Saffy we have finished sinking the stability in terms of cost increases from Services function to the business.
shaft and are now developing the ore wages.
This is of vital importance as Historically, each of our mines at body to begin trials in July 2006 of labour and labour related costs make Marikana had its own functions such one set of our Ultra Low Profile ULP up 60% of our underground mining as human resources, finance, ore equipment producing around 12,000 cost base.
Details of the New Era transportation and security.
A final decision on full Labour Agreement are given later in types of services we estimate cost mechanisation will be taken during the this Review on page 20. us R1.4 billion each year.
Business Services function will bring Six Sigma all these services into a central When we acquired the Limpopo mine We began the Lonmin Six Sigma department, eliminate duplication we committed capital expenditure of programme in August 2004 and and importantly ensure that we have $75 million over three years for the currently have 24 full time Black Belts in place standard processes and mine.
This included an amount for within the business.
We have also procedures across our operations.
alterations to the smelter which we trained 109 Green Belts.
During the We will finish the implementation of no longer believe will be required.
We year the Six Sigma team has closed Shared Business Services by the now believe that capital expenditure 81 projects and we currently have 141 end of March 2006 and expect to will be $63 million over three years active projects.
Projects focus both realise savings of around R140 following the removal of an amount on improving revenue and reducing million on a fully annualised basis.
previously allowed for metallurgical costs.
One of the key successes for improvements which we no longer Six Sigma this year has been the Mechanisation and automation believe is necessary.
work they have undertaken on the We now have two sets of ULP Mining performance of the smelter which has Equipment at our Merensky mining Costs helped to greatly increase throughput site at Karee 1B and will expand to For the 2005 financial year our C1 cost at No.
1 furnace and improve our three sets early in 2006.
Three sets of metal production from our Marikana revenue line.
Six Sigma has delivered will allow us to ramp-up production Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2005 www.
com a new way to mine CASE STUDY Mechanisation allows greater participation of women Conventional Platinum mining has long been a male dominated industry with many of the to around 38,000 tonnes per month.
delivering higher productivity and jobs available underground seen as too The mining costs at our mechanised lower cost in conventional areas.
Although we have taken site are now at similar levels to those steps to promote women to become involved for our conventional mining at around We continue to develop the Alpine in jobs underground, mechanisation gives R200 per tonne and we expect these Reef Miner ARM 1100 machine an ideal opportunity to allow us to increase to continue to trend lower as we to fulfil our longer term vision of the participation of women and provide increase production.
We champions for the promotion of women will move the ARM machine to the in mining.
One such champion is Ellen We have committed to expanding Merensky reef in 2006 for trialling Monametsi.
Ellen, who is 24 and a BSc mining the ULP mining method to the UG2 while we continue development graduate University of Witwatersrand, was reefs and will have in total five sets of on cutter technology for the highly sponsored in her last year of study by Lonmin ULP equipment in operation before abrasive UG2 reef.
and joined us full time in 2003.
Ellen has spent the end of the 2006 financial year.
the last four months at our mechanised mining These sets operating in both the We have developed a unique site at Karee 1B where she is currently being Merensky and UG2 reefs will give partnership with Sandvik our supplier trained as a Shift Supervisor.
n us a total of around 8% of our of ULP equipment.
This partnership production from mechanised stopes.
has continued to benefit us both as We are targeting 20% mechanisation we work to continually develop new by the end of 2007. mechanisation capacity.
We are committed to address the shortage Our short-term goal of introducing of skilled mechanised miners and appropriate mechanisation into we are together constructing a conventional mining area is centre of mechanisation with trainees progressing well, with the New Era being sourced from the Greater Loco, Drill Loco and Box Hole Borer Lonmin Community.
Transformation delivers Our Operations We continued to develop our exploration portfolio during the year in line with our strategy to search for and evaluate PGM projects that have the potential to contribute to our growth objectives.
We have terminated our interest in projects where prospectivity did not meet our strict criteria.
However, the Luwumbu Canada PGM grades were insufficiently Drilling continued to extend the strike Inco encouraging to warrant further of the PGM disseminated nickel In a significant new joint venture assessment and accordingly, sulphide layer first discovered in 2004. agreement, Inco has contributed we have withdrawn from the Exploration results will be reviewed the rights to explore for and exploit joint venture.
once all assays have been received.
PGM deposits on six properties in Sudbury.
The agreement South Africa Gabon incorporates the use of certain Loskop JV Through our acquisition of Southern infrastructure, including underground Drilling has identified layered PGM Platinum, we have obtained an access.
Lonmin has committed to mineralisation of potentially economic exclusive exploration permit to explore spend $10 million in the first three grade over a strike length of several for PGMs and associated minerals years of this programme.
An Inferred resource within north western Gabon.
The estimate will be completed by Monts fide Cristal permit covers a series Through surface trenching and December to be followed by infill drilling.
of intrusions of nearly 100 km in length.
drilling, PGM mineralisation has been Surface exploration indicates that intersected on four of the properties.
Millennium these intrusions have marked Exploration will continue to assess This property, acquired by Lonmin similarities to the geochemistry of the this mineralisation and to build up through the Southern Platinum Bushveld.
Soil and sediment sampling the potential resource base.
transaction, is located close to for PGMs will follow an airborne our Loskop Project.
The UG2 type geophysical survey designed to identify Wallbridge deposit is classified at Indicated the most prospective geology.
n A new PGM discovery was made on and Inferred Resource level.
We are the Trill property in Sudbury where reviewing our options to obtain value shallow drill holes have intersected from this project.
Although of small size, this discovery is encouraging Tanzania as the offset dyke is projected to occur Mibango over a 7 km strike length.
Further Drilling on the large nickel-PGM geophysics and drilling is planned bearing laterite deposit generated for the coming year.
an Inferred Resource of 113 Mt at 0.8% nickel with by product cobalt USA and PGMs.
Recent exploration has Union Bay Alaska discovered massive and semiDrilling followed up on targets massive nickel sulphide bodies which identified by the 2004 airborne contain PGMs.
Follow-up targets are geophysical survey and intersected being generated for future drilling.
Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2005 www.
com further growth Transformation delivers Sustainable Development If we are to reach our goal of becoming a world class natural resource company we need to achieve excellent performance in the areas of safety, health, environment and community and compliance with the requirements of the South African Governments broad based socio-economic Mining Charter.
This year we have Mining Charter and Black and community instigated a comprehensive air Economic Empowerment During the year we eliminated all quality monitoring network to We welcome the opportunity work related fatal accidents on address concerns over dust.
By to transform our business and to surface but it is with deep regret that the end of 2007 we have committed achieve the requirements of the we report the loss of eight lives on to revegetating all the dormant Mining Charter.
During the year Lonmin property.
Six lives were lost tailings dams on our property which we have made substantial progress as a result of work related accidents.
will reduce dust emissions from with our Social and Labour Plan.
We are committed to zero harm at all these sites.
Our leadership continues to be more our operations and have put in place diverse and we now have 20% HDSA further initiatives and behavioural Community engagement has been representation at a senior and middle based safety programmes to achieve a key priority for 2005 and we began management level.
Women now a step change improvement in safety.
the process in January of bringing represent 3.3% of the workforce together community members, local but are still under represented at the Our health performance has made government, the tribal authority, unions senior management and mine worker considerable progress during the and Lonmin management in a series levels.
In terms of procurement we year and we are currently setting up of stakeholder forums.
The Greater are ahead of target with more than a Health Maintenance Organisation Lonmin Community was borne out 37% of our total procurement spend available to all Lonmin Platinum of this work and took on developing going to HDSA companies.
employees and their dependents projects for the community which to address the challenge of high align with their needs.
A great deal of In our efforts in this area we continue medical costs in South Africa.
progress has been made this year and to be supported by our Black Our anti-retroviral therapy ART will continue during 2006.
We have Economic Empowerment partner programme has been successful committed to spend 1% of our pre-tax Incwala Resources and we thank with 407 patients currently taking profits annually in this area.
them for all their help and assistance part.
Of these 94% are back in full during the year.
We will continue to Further details of all our develop our programme of voluntary achievements in these areas can Full details of our progress with counselling and testing during 2006 be found in the Lonmin Sustainable compliance with the Mining Charter and increase ART uptake in the Development Report 2005 which and Charter Scorecard can be workforce.
is for the first time being prepared found in the Lonmin Sustainable in compliance with the Global Development Report 2005. n Environmental performance is key Reporting Initiative, Mining and to ensure sustainability and good Metals Sector Supplement.
relationships with our neighbouring sustainable dev elopment Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2005 www.
com sustainable dev elopment Transformation delivers Our People We believe that our employees are one of our key assets and have worked hard during 2005 to improve the way we relate to them.
We are creating a structure which fosters teamwork and empowers our employees while rewarding them for high performance.
One of our key objectives for 2005 commitment to problem solving employee if the company satisfies was to redefine our relationships with within the agreement framework.
The pool will our employees and the unions that The agreement links basic wage be distributed equally across all levels represent them.
We are delighted increases to CPIX, the South African of relevant employees.
The JUMPS at the progress we have achieved inflation measure.
In years one and Forum is currently engaged in which culminated in the signing of two we have agreed to amend the agreeing the specific terms of the gain the New Era Labour Agreement on agreement to allow for a base wage share, which will be implemented 21 June 2005. increase of 2% above CPIX.
The during the first half of the year.
agreement also addresses one of the In April 2005, we established a Joint key elements of our Mission, which Our employees are an essential part Union Management Problem Solving is to create common standards of our drive to improve the way we Forum JUMPS which included and procedures, by eliminating the operate.
Many of our employees have management representatives and discrepancies in respect of employee very good ideas as to how we can representatives from the three pay and conditions that have do things better and improve the unions which represent our historically existed between our three processes they undertake every day.
employees at Marikana, National mines, Western, Eastern and Karee.
The gain share allows us to tap in to Union of Mineworkers NUM, this great source of knowledge and to Solidarity and UASA.
JUMPS At Lonmin we are striving to align our fully engage all our employees in the holds regular meetings to address employees interests with those of our improvement of the Lonmin business.
historical issues and grievances and shareholders and the New Era Labour This helps align their interests with created the possibility of a new way Agreement provides for employees those of our shareholders.
forward in working together to solve to be rewarded over and above problems as they arise.
base wages through a gain share Our Limpopo operations have also programme.
The gain share will be signed a similar 5 year New Era The JUMPS Forum created the terms a payment made to employees from a Labour Agreement which links basic and structure of the New Era Labour bonus pool created from the value wage increase to CPIX for each year.
The Agreement, which of 25% of improvements made over In the case of Limpopo the gain share we believe is unique in South Africa, agreed targets for production and is tailored towards cost improvements is for a 5 year term and is a living costs.
In addition there will be a safety as they work to bring their costs in agreement with a continued element paid into the pool per line with those at Marikana.
n... effective teamwork & employee satisfaction Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2005 0 www.
com... effective teamwork & employee satisfaction Transformation delivers Our Board Left to right: Executive Directors He is a director of the International Brad Mills Platinum Association, Furuya Metals Ian Farmer 1.
Brad Mills 51 Co. Limited, Tokyo and Incwala John Robinson Chief Executive Resources Pty Limited, which holds Sir John Craven Appointed as a director and Chief a minority interest in Lonmins South Roger Phillimore Executive in March 2004.
Holds a African operating subsidiaries, Ian Peter Godsoe first degree in geology and a masters has both South African and British Dr Sivi Gounden degree in minerals economics from nationality.
Michael Hartnall Karen fide Segundo Stanford University.
After working in exploration and business development 3.
John Robinson 51 for Magma Copper, he held a variety Chief Financial Officer of senior roles for BHP following that After reading economics at companys acquisition of Magma.
One Cambridge University, John qualified of the architects of the merger of BHP as a chartered accountant whilst and Billiton in 2001, he subsequently working for Thomson McLintock & headed up strategy for the combined Co, now a part of KPMG.
He joined group before becoming head of BHP the Company in 1979 as a financial Billitons base metals division.
Brad analyst and held a subsequent post is a US national.
as a finance executive working with the mining operations.
Ian Farmer 43 an associate director in 1992, he Chief Strategic Officer subsequently joined the Board as Appointed a director in 2001 and Finance Director in 1999.
He played has responsibility for the Companys a pivotal role in the sale or closure of business development, exploration numerous companies, particularly and marketing activities.
A chartered from 1997 onwards, helping to accountant, he joined the company shape Lonmin into a focused mining in 1986 and transferred to a group company.
In 1995 he was appointed finance director of Lonmin Platinum in South Africa, which position he relinquished upon his transfer to London in 2001.
com... experience Non-executive Directors of the Nomination and Remuneration process engineering company.
Committees, and a member of Audit Dr Gounden is currently a trustee of 4.
Formerly joint managing the Deutsche Bank Africa Foundation Chairman director of Minorco, he is currently and a non-executive director of Appointed as an independent Nona non-executive director of Aber Grindrod Limited, a company listed on executive Director and Chairman of Diamond Corporation.
Roger holds the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
Currently chairman both British and South African He served as a non-executive director of Fleming Family and Partners nationality.
until July 2005, of Anglo American Limited, an independent, privatelyCorporation of South Africa.
owned investment house, he was 6.
Peter Godsoe 67 previously the group chief executive A chartered accountant and banker 8.
Michael Hartnall 63 and chairman of Morgan Grenfell with an MBA from Harvard, he Appointed an independent NonGroup plc and a member of the was appointed an independent executive Director in May 2003.
Board of Managing Directors of Non-executive Director in 2001.
He is the Chairman of the Audit Deutsche Bank AG after that He is a member of the Nomination Committee, a member of the companys acquisition of Morgan and Remuneration Committees of Remuneration Committee and also Grenfell.
Sir John is also a director the Board, and was appointed to the sits on the Risk & SHEC Committee.
of British American Tobacco Pension Audit Committee in September 2004.
A chartered accountant and former Fund Ltd, GEMS Oriental & General Formerly chairman and chief executive finance director of Rexam Plc, he is Funds I, II and III and Ian Fleming officer of The Bank of Nova Scotia, also a non-executive director of Publications Ltd.
He has held he is also a non-executive director BAE Systems Plc.
Michael is a a number of non-executive of Barrick Gold, Faimont Hotels and British national.
directorships, including Reuters Resorts Inc and Ingersoll-Rand Holdings plc, and is a non-executive company.
Karen fide Segundo 59 director of Incwala Resources Pty Appointed an independent NonLimited and a director of Patagonia 7.
Dr Sivi Gounden 47 executive Director in April 2005 and Gold Plc.
Sir John holds both British Appointed an independent Nona member of the Audit Committee.
and Canadian nationality and was executive Director in September Formerly chief executive officer of Shell knighted for his services to banking 2005.
An engineer by profession, International Renewables and chief and to the City.
Dr Gounden joined the South African executive of Shells global gas and Government in 1994 and in 1999 he power business, she is currently a 5.
Roger Phillimore 56 was appointed director-general of member of the supervisory board of Deputy Chairman and the newly established Department Ahold NV and a non-executive director Senior Independent Director of Public Enterprises.
In June 2003, of Merrill Lynch New Energy Technology Appointed an independent Nonhe was appointed as chief executive Plc and Jaakko Pory Group Oyj of executive Director in 1997.
Chairman officer of Bateman BV, a global Finland.
Transformation delivers Our Markets The Platinum market continues to be robust with strong industrial demand particularly for autocatalysts.
The principal source of supply, South Africa, has been constrained with the strength of the Rand inhibiting the development of new projects.
Platinum the Chinese Renminbi in July 2005 Platinum, Palladium, Rhodium, The Platinum market in recent years helping to support demand.
ruthenium and iridium in our lives?
has experienced rapid growth due Everyday, some part of each of our to emergence of Platinum as a On the supply side South Africa lives is improved by the use of one preferred solution in a variety of has a key role as the supplier of of these rare metals.
The principal growth has more than two thirds of the worlds chemical, physical and catalytic been driven by emissions legislation Platinum.
The current strong rand qualities of strength, durability, which has been tightening in the and the high capital cost of future resistance to oxidation and high Western world and is spreading expansions for most producers have temperature corrosion allow an rapidly to developing countries.
The inhibited the expansion of supply.
abundance of uses: demand for autocatalysts, which The Platinum price has a natural Post-it Notes are coated with account for around 50% of the end hedge relationship with the South Platinum bearing silicone based market for the metal, has been African Rand.
This dynamic supports pressure sensitive adhesive that growing at a rate of approximately our confidence in our position as a allows the note to peel away 5% to 10% per annum for the last South African producer of Platinum.
cleanly without tearing: ten years.
Autocatalysts utilise This means that Platinum priced Platinum and Palladium are mixed combinations of Platinum, Palladium in Rand terms must remain high with gold and silver and used in and Rhodium to abate the pollutant enough to support growth in metal dental crowns and bridges to emissions from internal combustion supplies given the rapid growth in provide strength, stiffness and engines.
The growth of the diesel world wide demand for Platinum.
durability: market, where Platinum is the primary hard disks used in data storage catalytic solution has favoured the Palladium contain Platinum: metal, as has the tightening of The Palladium market remains in the crystals used to provide liquid emissions standards where currently fundamental oversupply and it appears crystal display glass and LED Platinum loadings need to be higher that any demand growth can be lighting in watches, mobile phone to offer the best solution.
comfortably absorbed by existing and laptop computers are grown inventory and the prospect of further in iridium crucibles: Industrial uses of Platinum have supply growth from Palladium Platinum inhibits the division of developed in a number of applications autocatalyst recycling.
living cells and is therefore a major such as the use of Platinum kilns for component of all chemotherapy flat glass manufacture and in hard Rhodium drugs: and disk applications.
The jewellery Rhodium is a critical component in Platinum is inert, does not corrode market, which represents about 30% automobile catalysts.
This rare metal inside the body and allergic reactions of global demand for Platinum, covers has very limited supply flexibility and to it are rare.
It also has good both wedding sets and fashion with core industrial support growing electrical conductivity and is found in jewellery.
Fashion jewellery has we have seen Rhodium prices rise by pacemakers, cardiovascular stents historically been the price sensitive 97.7% over the last 12 months from and defibrillators, and aural, neural segment ceding ounces to the $1,199 per ounce to $2,371 per ounce.
n industrial buyers as the price has risen.
The jewellery market has A wide variety of uses continued to be surprisingly robust Have you ever thought about the role during the year with the revaluation of of the Platinum group metals,... Porsche, Post-it notes and plasma screens Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2005 www.
com Johnson Matthey Johnson Matthey Johnson Matthey Johnson Matthey Johnson Matthey Johnson Matthey Johnson Matthey Johnson Matthey... Porsche, Post-it notes and plasma screens Transformation delivers Operating Statistics Platinum operating statistics five year review 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 1 Tonnes milled Marikana Underground 000 11,102 11,121 11,418 11,260 10,520 Limpopo Underground 000 Marikana Opencast 000, 3,283 2,790 Total 000, 0 14,404 14,208 11,260 10,520 Tonnes mined Marikana Underground 000, 0 11,070 11,450 12,346 10,111 Limpopo Underground 000 Marikana Opencast 000, 2,730 2,880 Total 000, 13,800 14,330 12,346 10,111 UG2 to Merensky Ratio %.
186.8 161.5 150.3 113.5 1 Sales Lonmin Platinum Platinum oz, 941,146 903,077 757,958 707,379 Palladium oz 0, 405,329 405,073 349,243 315,697 Rhodium oz, 126,723 131,752 109,194 95,138 Total PGMs oz, , 1,761,171 1,728,387 1,415,112 1,307,495 Average price received per ounce Platinum R, 5,356 5,053 5,357 4,411 $ 816 645 501 544 Palladium R, 1,485 1,698 3,759 5,404 $ 227 212 351 670 Rhodium R 0, 4,876 4,201 9,123 13,813 $, 745 529 850 1,703 Basket price of PGMs and base metals $ kg, 17,072 14,618 13,662 18,652 Cash Costs: Underground R, 1,698 N C N C N C Opencast R, 1,686 N C N C N C Mining weighted average cost R, 1,696 N C N C N C Smelting and refining R 242 N C N C N C Shared business services R 316 N C N C N C Movement in physical stock R 165 N C N C N C Cost per PGM ounce sold before by products credits R, 2,419 N C N C N C Base metal credits R 233 N C N C N C C1 Cost per PGM ounce sold net of by products credits Marikana R, 2,186 N C N C N C Improved recoveries R 29 N C N C N C Smelter repair R N C N C N C N C Accounting change for stock valuation R N C N C N C N C Other EBIT items: Amortisation R 232 N C N C N C Insurance proceeds R N C N C N C N C Restructuring R N C N C N C N C Other off mine exploration donations R 26 N C N C N C C2 Cost per PGM ounce sold own production Marikana R, 2,415 N C N C N C Cash cost per refined ounce of PGM sold Limpopo R, 0 $ Cash cost per refined ounce of PGM sold inc royalties R N C N C 1,974 1,863 1,660 $ N C N C 251 176 205 Cash cost per refined ounce of PGM sold exc royalties R N C N C 1,969 1,847 1,655 $ N C N C 250 174 205 Cash cost per refined ounce of PGM produced exc royalties Underground R N C N C 2,022 1,776 N C $ N C N C 257 168 N C Opencast R N C N C 1,801 2,726 N C $ N C N C 229 257 N C Total R N C N C 1,996 1,780 1,594 $ N C N C 254 168 197 Average exchange rates Sterling $ 0.
6.48 6.97 10.54 8.77 Notes: 1 Excluding slag 2 Produced for sale as concentrate or toll refined Transformation delivers C Co or rp po or ra at te e IIn nf fo or rm ma at tiio on n Company Secretary and South Africa: Computershare Investor Registered Office JPMorgan Equities Limited Services 00 Pty Limited Rob Bellhouse BSc FCIS 1 Friker Road PO Box 61051 Lonmin Plc Illovo 70 Marshalltown 2107 4 Grosvenor Place Johannesburg 2196 South Africa London SW1X 7YL South Africa Tel: 27 11 370 5000 United Kingdom Tel: 27 11 507 0430 Fax: 27 11 688 5217 or 7707 Tel: 44 0 20 7201 6000 Fax: 27 11 507 0502 Fax: 44 0 20 7201 6100 Street Address Email: contact@lonmin.
com North America: 70 Marshall Street www.
com BMO Nesbitt Burns 2001 Johannesburg 1 First Canadian Place South Africa Lonmin is registered in England and 5th Floor PO Box 150 Wales as company number 103002 Toronto ADR Depository Ontario M5X 1H3 The Bank of New York Investor Relations Canada ADR Shareholder Enquiries Dept.
Alexandra Shorland-Ball Tel: 1 416 359 4001 PO Box 11258 Vice President, Investor Relations & Fax: 1 416 359 4417 Church Street Station Communications www.
com New York NY 10286 USA External Auditors Registrars US Callers KPMG Audit Plc Lloyds TSB Registrars Tel: 1-888-BNY-ADRS Toll free PO Box 695, 8 Salisbury Square The Causeway, Worthing International Callers London EC4Y 8BB West Sussex BN99 6DA Tel: 1 610 382 7836 United Kingdom United Kingdom Email: shareowners@bankofny.
com Tel: 44 0 20 7311 1000 UK Callers Fax: 44 0 20 7311 3311 Tel: 0870 600 3970 ISA Provider Fax: 0870 600 3980 Carr Sheppards Crosthwaite Stockbrokers International Callers Limited United Kingdom: Tel: 44 0 121 415 7047 Corporate PEP and ISA Admin.
Help JPMorgan Cazenove Limited Fax: 44 0 1903 833371 2 Gresham Street 20 Moorgate London EC2U 7QN London EC2R 6DA United Kingdom United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 1252 712 049 Tel: 44 0 20 7588 2828 Fax: 44 0 1252 734 628 Fax: 44 0 20 7155 9000 We would like to thank all those employees and community members whose photographs appear in this document, and especially Lucas Booysen and Andr Germishuys from Rowland Concentrator, who appear on the front cover.
Designed and produced by Emperor Design Consultants Ltd Photography by Kevin Rudham Printed by Corporateink Printed on Revive Special Silk  paper using vegetable oil based inks.
At least 30% of the fibre used in making Revive Special Silk comes from well managed forests independently certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council and 30% is from post consumer recycled waste paper.
com Lonmin Charter We are Lonmin, a primary producer of Platinum Group Metals.
We create value by the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of minerals and metals.
We respect the communities and nations that host our operations and conduct business in a sustainable, socially and environmentally responsible way.
Our mission We are successful when Our values To grow and build our portfolio Our employees live and work Zero Harm of high quality assets.
safely and experience the personal We are committed to zero harm satisfaction that comes with high to people and the environment.
To deliver the requirements of performance and recognition.
the South African broad based Integrity, honesty and trust socio-economic Mining Charter Our shareholders are realising We are committed ethical people and we welcome the opportunity a superior total return on their who do what we say we will do.
investment and support our Transparency corporate sustainability values.
To build a value-based culture, Open, honest communication and which is founded on safe work, The communities in which we free sharing of information.
continuous improvement, common operate value our relationships.
Respect for each other standards and procedures, We are meeting our Embracing our diversity enriched community involvement and one commitments to all business by openness, sharing, trust, that rewards employees for high partners and our suppliers, teamwork and involvement.
contractors, partners and High performance customers support our Charter.
Stretching our individual and team capabilities to achieve innovative and superior outcomes.
Employee self-worth To enhance the quality of life for Sir John Craven Bradford A Mills our employees and their families Chairman Chief Executive and promote self esteem.
November 2004 Lonmin Plc 4 Grosvenor Place London SW1X 7YL www.
