Financial liabilities continued Credit risk The Group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities at 31 December: The Groups principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, trade and other receivables and investments.
The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its US$ million 2005 2004 trade receivables.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances Expiry date for doubtful receivables.
An allowance for impairment is made where there is an In one year or less 3,962 2,019 identified loss event, which based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction In more than one year but not more than two years 75 2 in the recoverability of the cash flows.
In more than two years 3,528 2,900 The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because 7,565 4,921 the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international creditrating agencies.
A $1 billion European Commercial Paper Programme was established in October 2004.
The programme was established to provide further funding diversity and flexibility.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over The European Commercial Paper Programme is in addition to a $1.3 billion Canadian a large number of counterparties and customers.
Commercial Paper Programme established a number of years ago.
Other financial assets liabilities derivatives The Group uses forward exchange contracts, currency swaps and option contracts In accordance with IAS 32 and IAS 39, which were adopted prospectively from 1 January to limit the effects of movements in exchange rates on foreign currency denominated 2005, the fair value of all derivatives are separately recorded on the balance sheet assets and liabilities.
The Group also uses these instruments to hedge future within other financial assets derivatives and other financial liabilities derivatives.
Derivatives that are designated as hedges are classified as current or non-current depending on the maturity of the derivative.
Derivatives that are not designated as Interest rate risk hedges are classified as current in accordance with IAS 1 even when their actual Fluctuations in interest rates impact on the value of short term investments and maturity is expected to be greater than one year.
The actual cash flow maturity of financing activities, giving rise to interest rate risk.
The Group uses interest rate swap derivatives is provided as additional information below.
and option contracts to manage its exposure to interest rate movements on a portion of its existing debt and short term investments.
The Group utilises derivative instruments to manage its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices.
The Group does Commodity price risk not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes, however it may The Group uses forward, spot, deferred and option contracts to hedge the price risk of choose not to designate certain derivatives as hedges.
Such derivatives that are not certain commodities that it produces, primarily gold, and also in respect of heating oil hedge accounted are classified as non-hedges and fair valued immediately through purchases.
The mix of hedging instruments, the volume of production hedged and the the income statement.
The Group and its independently managed subsidiaries have tenor of the hedging book is continually reviewed in the light of changes in operational developed comprehensive risk management processes to facilitate the control and forecasts, market conditions and the Groups hedging policy.
The majority of contracts monitoring of these risks.
The respective boards have approved and monitor the risk relate to the hedging of gold sales.
The hedged forecast gold sales are expected to management processes, inclusive of documented treasury policies, counterparty limits, occur over the next 10 years, in line with the maturity dates of the hedging instruments controlling and reporting structures.
The risk management processes of the Groups and will affect profit and loss simultaneously in an equal and opposite way.
independently listed subsidiaries are in line with the Groups own policy.
Embedded derivatives The use of derivative instruments can give rise to credit and market risk.
The Group Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are controls credit risk by entering into derivative contracts only with counterparties who treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely have short term ratings of A1 P1 and long term ratings of A or better by external rating related to those of their host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair agencies or who have received specific internal corporate credit approval.
Embedded derivatives may be designated as a hedge and are accounted for derivative instruments is subject to limits and the positions are regularly monitored in accordance with the Groups accounting policy set out in note 1. and reported to senior management.
Market risk is the possibility that future changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices may make Cash flow hedges a derivative instrument more or less valuable.
Since the Group utilises derivative The Group classifies the majority of its forward exchange and commodity price contracts instruments for risk management, market risk relating to derivative instruments will hedging highly probable forecast transactions as cash flow hedges and states them at principally be offset by changes in the valuation of the underlying assets, liabilities fair value.
Subsequent changes in fair value are recognised in equity until the hedged or transactions being hedged.
transactions occur, at which time the respective gains or losses are transferred to the income statement in accordance with the Groups accounting policy set out in note 1.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2005 | 67 Notes to financial statements continued These marked to market valuations are in no way predictive of the future value of the 25.
Other financial assets liabilities derivatives continued Fair value hedges hedged position, nor of the future impact on the revenue of the Group.
The valuation The majority of interest rate swaps taken out to protect the Groups fixed rate represents the cost of buying all hedge contracts at the time of valuation, at market borrowings against future interest rate movements have been designated as fair value prices and rates available at the time.
The respective carrying values of the hedged debt is adjusted to reflect the fair value of the interest rate risk being hedged.
Subsequent changes in the fair value The fair value of the Groups derivative position at 31 December 2004 was analysed of the hedged risk are offset against fair value changes in the interest rate swap and as follows: classified within financing costs, in the income statement.
31 December 2004 Estimated Estimated Cross currency swaps are also taken out to protect the Groups non US dollar debt fair value fair value Carrying against future currency movements.
The respective carrying values of the hedged debt US$ million asset liability value are translated at the closing exchange rate in accordance with the Groups policy and Foreign exchange risk 648 304 336 as such are already adjusted for the currency risk being hedged.
Interest rate risk 106 110 5 Commodity price risk Non hedges Gold 750 1,896 31 The Group may choose not to designate certain derivatives as hedges, for example Other commodity derivatives 1 2 certain forward contracts that economically hedge forecast commodity transactions 1,505 2,312 362 and relatively low value or short term derivative contracts where the potential mark to market exposure on the Groups earnings is not considered material.
Where derivatives The balances in the table above include normal purchase and sale contracts.
have not been designated as hedges, fair value changes are recognised in the income 1 and are classified as statement in accordance with the Groups policy set out in note Normal purchase and normal sale contracts financing or operating depending on the nature of the associated hedged risk.
Commodity based contracts that meet the requirements of IAS 39 in that they are settled through physical delivery of the Groups production or are used within the In 2004, the fair value of derivatives used to hedge either the foreign exchange, production process are classified as normal purchase and normal sale contracts.
commodity price or interest rate risks of future transactions was held off balance sheet In accordance with IAS 39 these contracts are not marked to market when they are and was recognised only in the period to which the gains and losses of the underlying settled through physical delivery.
The fair value of derivatives used to hedge the fair value risk of items already recognised on balance sheet was offset against the carrying value of At year end 6.6 million ounces of gold were sold forward under normal sale contracts the underlying hedged item.
that mature over periods up to December 2015.
The mark to market value of these contracts at this date was $1,281 million and is based on contracted gold prices of The fair value of the Groups open derivative position at 31 December 2005 between $310 oz and $403 oz.
This value at 31 December 2005 was based on a excluding normal purchase and sale contracts held off-balance sheet, recorded gold price of $517 oz, exchange rates of $ ZAR 6.305 and AUD $ 0.734 and the within other financial assets derivatives and other financial liabilities derivatives prevailing market interest rates and volatilities at that date.
is as follows: As at 9 February 2006, the marked to market value of AngloGold Ashantis total As at 31 December 2005 hedge book, including normal purchase and normal sale contracts, was a negative US$ million Asset Liability $2.425 billion negative ZAR14.99 billion, based on a gold price of $557.75 oz and Current exchange rates of $ ZAR 6.18 and AUD $ 0.7398 and the prevailing market interest Cash flow hedge rates and volatilities at the time.
Forward foreign currency contracts 21 19 1 Gold commodity instruments 32 140 2 Other 4 74 Fair value hedge Forward foreign currency contracts 7 11 3 Non-hedge Forward foreign currency contracts 53 94 1 Gold commodity instruments 588 900 Other 42 48 Total current derivatives 747 1,286 Non-current Cash flow hedge Forward foreign currency contracts 1 1 Gold commodity instruments 37 275 2 Other 140 143 Fair value hedge Interest rate swap 5 2 Non hedge Other 88 Total non-current derivatives 183 508 1 The majority of the gold commodity price risk fair value comprises 10.8 million ounces 2004: 10.5 million ounces priced forward covering periods up to December 2015.
The value was based on a gold price of $517 oz 2004: $435 oz, exchange rates of $ ZAR 6.31 and AUD $ 0.73 2004: $ ZAR 5.67 and AUD $ 0.77 and the prevailing market interest rates and volatilities at the time.
2 Other cash flow hedges include forward copper derivatives taken out to hedge the future prices of sales from Mantos Blancos.
The contracted forward price is 116 US cents lb and covers 3,338 tonnes per month for the next three years, some 50% of Mantos Blancos sales, starting January 2006.
3 $29 million of derivative assets and $92 million of derivative liabilities not designated as hedges and that are classified as current in accordance with IAS 1 are due to mature after more than one year.
68 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2005
