The financial effects of adoption of FRS 26 at 1 January 2005 are shown in note 44b.
Accounting policies: Anglo American plc, the Company The Anglo American plc the Company balance sheet and related notes have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting principles The Company has also applied the following UK standards for the first time in 2005 UK GAAP and in accordance with UK company law.
The financial information has however this has not represented a change in accounting policy previously applied been prepared on a historical cost basis as modified by the revaluation of certain and it has not been necessary to restate any comparative information: financial instruments.
FRS 23 The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates: A summary of the principal accounting policies is set out below, together with an FRS 28 Corresponding amounts.
explanation of where changes have been made to previous policies on the adoption of new accounting standards in the year.
Significant accounting policies Retirement benefits The preparation of financial statements in conformity with UK GAAP requires the use The Company operates both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes for its of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities employees as well as post retirement medical plans.
As the Company has elected to at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and take advantage of the exemption included in FRS17 in respect of multi-employer expenses during the period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best defined benefit pension schemes, these schemes are accounted for as though they knowledge of the amount, event or actions, following implementation of these were defined contribution schemes.
For defined contribution schemes the amount standards, actual results may differ from those estimates.
charged to the income statement is the contributions paid or payable during the year.
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act, the profit and loss account Deferred taxation of the parent company is not presented as part of these financial statements.
Deferred taxation is provided in full on all timing differences that result in an obligation The profit after tax for the year of the parent company amounted to $3,720 million at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, 2004: $990 million as restated for the adoption of accounting standards as subject to the recoverability of deferred tax assets.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities described below.
Changes in accounting policies Share-based payments The following UK GAAP accounting policy changes have been made in 2005: The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 20.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, FRS 20 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after FRS 17 Retirement benefits: 7 November 2002 that had not vested as at 1 January 2005.
FRS 20 Share-based payments: FRS 21 Events after the balance sheet date: The Company makes equity-settled share-based payments to the directors, which are FRS 25 Financial instruments: Disclosure and presentation: and measured at fair value at the date of grant.
For those share schemes which do not FRS 26 Financial instruments: Measurement.
include non-market vesting conditions, the fair value is determined using the Monte Carlo method at the grant date and expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting The adoption of these standards represents a change in accounting policy and the period, based on the Companys estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The fair comparative information has been restated accordingly except where the exemption value of share options issued with non-market vesting conditions has been calculated from restating comparative information under FRS 25 and FRS 26 has been taken.
using the Black Scholes model.
For all other share awards, the fair value is determined The effect of adoption of each of these standards is summarised below.
by reference to the market value of the share at the date of grant.
For all share schemes with non-market related vesting conditions, the likelihood of vesting has been FRS 17 Retirement benefits taken into account when determining the IFRS charge.
Vesting assumptions are The Company has elected to take advantage of the exemption included in FRS 17 reviewed during each reporting period to ensure they reflect current expectations.
in respect of multi-employer defined benefit pension schemes.
Disclosures of the Group pension schemes and assumptions relevant to, and the fair value of Accounting for share-based payments is the same as under IFRS 2 and details assets and liabilities of, the defined benefit schemes are set out in note 28 to the on the schemes and option pricing models relevant to the charge included in the consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Company financial statements is set out in note 29 to the consolidated financial Charges in respect of defined contribution schemes for the directors of the statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Company are given in the Group remuneration report.
Investments FRS 20 Share-based payments Investments represent equity holdings in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates and The Standard requires options granted to directors to be measured at fair value at are held at cost.
grant date using an option pricing model and charged to the profit and loss account over the vesting period of the options.
This accounting change has reduced net Convertible debt pre 1 January 2005 profit for the Company for the year ended 31 December 2004 by $3 million.
Convertible bonds are recorded entirely as liabilities irrespective of the probability of Had the previous accounting policy been applied in 2005, net profit for the Company future conversion until either converted or redeemed.
for the year ended 31 December 2005 would have been $5 million higher.
Convertible debt post 1 January 2005 FRS 21 Events after the balance sheet date Convertible bonds denominated in the functional currency of the entity issuing the shares In accordance with the Companies Act 1985 IAS and other accounting are regarded as compound instruments, consisting of a liability and an equity component.
amendments FRS 20 requires that dividends proposed are recognised in the At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component is estimated using the period in which they are formally approved for payment.
The change in timing of prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt and is recorded within recognising proposed dividends and the related tax thereon has increased net borrowings.
The difference between the proceeds of issue of the convertible bond and assets of the Company at 31 December 2004 by $452 million.
Had the previous the fair value assigned to the liability component, representing the embedded option to accounting policy been applied in 2005 net profit for the Company for the year convert the liability into equity of the Company, is included in equity.
ended 31 December 2005 would have been $5 million higher.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components of the FRS 25 Financial instruments: Disclosure and presentation convertible bonds where appropriate based on their relative carrying amounts at the date FRS 25 requires financial instrument disclosures identical to those required by IAS of issue.
The portion relating to the equity component is charged directly against equity.
The Company has elected to take the exemption provided in paragraph 3C b of FRS 25 in respect of these parent company financial statements.
Full disclosures The interest expense on the liability component is calculated by applying the effective are provided in the consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year interest rate for similar non-convertible debt to the liability component of the ended 31 December 2005. instrument.
The difference between this amount and the interest paid is added to the carrying amount of the convertible bond.
FRS 26 Financial instruments: Measurement FRS 26 aligns UK accounting for financial instruments with the requirements of IAS Bank borrowings 39.
FRS 26 has been applied prospectively from 1 January 2005, as permitted, and Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of as such restated comparative information presented excludes any adjustments direct transaction costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or required in respect of FRS 26.
The Company has taken the policy option within FRS redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis and charged 26 of presenting its investments in joint ventures and associates at cost.
to the income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2005 | 87
