Accounting policies Non-current assets and disposal groups and associated liabilities held for sale are Basis of preparation measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Any The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial resulting impairment is reported through the income statement as a special item.
Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRIC interpretations for the first time and with those On classification as held for sale, the assets are no longer depreciated.
Comparative parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The amounts are not adjusted.
disclosure required by IFRS 1 First-time adoption of international financial reporting standards concerning the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS is given in note 40.
Discontinued operations are classified as held for sale and are either a separate major Accordingly the Group complies with all IFRSs including those adopted for use in the line of business or geographical area of operations that have been sold or are part of a European Union and those issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
single co-ordinated plan to be disposed of, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as view to sale.
Once an operation has been identified as discontinued, or is reclassified modified by the revaluation of biological assets and certain financial instruments.
A as continuing, the comparative information is restated.
summary of the principal Group accounting policies is set out below, together with an explanation of where changes have been made to previous IFRS policies on the $757 million of assets and $283 million of liabilities associated with disposal groups adoption of new accounting standards in the year.
were reclassified as held for sale during the year.
These disposal groups were sold prior to year end and no new disposal groups were identified as at 31 December 2005.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted Impairment charges of $36 million, after tax and minority interests, were recorded on accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reclassification of these assets.
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Basis of consolidation Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, The financial statements incorporate a consolidation of the financial statements of event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to Details of the Groups significant accounting policies and critical accounting estimates govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain are set out in the Operating and Financial Review.
Early adoption of standards The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the The Group, as a first-time IFRS reporter, has adopted early with effect from 1 January consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the 2004 the following standards and interpretations as at 31 December 2005, the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
reporting date of the Groups first IFRS financial statements: Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of subsidiaries, joint ventures IAS 19 Employee benefits amended: and associates to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.
IFRS 6 Exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources: Intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on IFRIC 1 Changes in existing decommissioning, restoration and similar liabilities: consolidation, where appropriate.
IFRIC 2 Members shares in co-operative entities and similar instruments: IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease: The interest of minority shareholders is initially stated at the minoritys proportion of IFRIC 5 Rights to interests arising from decommissioning, restoration and the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised on acquisition.
any losses applicable to the minority interest in excess of the minority interest are allocated against the interests of the parent.
We note that IFRS 6 does not impact the Groups existing policy for exploration and evaluation expenditure.
Associates Associates are investments over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant Changes in accounting policies influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial and The following IFRS accounting policy changes have been made with effect from operating policy decisions of the investee.
Typically the Group owns between 20% and 1 January 2005: 50% of the voting equity of its associates.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting except when classified as held for sale.
1 Financial instruments: and 2 Held for sale assets and discontinued operations.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition is recognised as 1 Financial instruments goodwill.
Where the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of The Group has taken the exemption under IFRS 1 to apply IAS 32 Financial instruments: the associate at the date of acquisition exceeds the cost of the acquisition, the surplus, disclosure and presentation and IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and which represents the discount on the acquisition, is credited to the income statement measurement prospectively from 1 January 2005.
As such, the financial information in the period of acquisition.
presented for the year ended 31 December 2004 excludes any adjustments required from adoption of these two standards.
The Groups share of associates profit or loss is based on their most recent audited financial statements or unaudited interim statements drawn up to the Groups balance As set out in note 41, the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2004 sheet date.
has been adjusted to apply IAS 32 and IAS 39 prospectively from 1 January 2005.
The accounting policies for financial instruments are set out below.
The total carrying values of investments in associates represent the cost of each investment including the carrying value of goodwill, the share of post-acquisition 2 Held for sale assets and discontinued operations retained earnings, any other movements in reserves and any long term debt interests The Group has applied IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued which in substance form part of the Groups net investment.
The carrying values of operations prospectively from 1 January 2005.
Application of the policy change associates are reviewed on a regular basis and if an impairment in value has occurred, is in accordance with transitional provisions set out in the standard.
it is written off in the period in which those circumstances are identified.
The Groups share of an associates losses in excess of its interest in that associate is not Previously, the Group applied IAS 35 Discontinuing operations which required the recognised unless the Group has an obligation to fund such losses.
restatement of comparative information once an operation was identified as discontinuing.
Joint venture entities Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying A joint venture entity is an entity in which the Group holds a long term interest and amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing shares joint control over the strategic, financial and operating decisions with one or use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the more other venturers under a contractual arrangement.
asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, income, expenditure and cash flows for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
of jointly controlled entities are accounted for using proportionate consolidation.
Proportionate consolidation combines the Groups share of the results of the joint venture entity on a line by line basis with similar items in the Groups financial statements.
50 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2005
