Accounting policies Non-current assets and disposal groups and associated liabilities held for sale are Basis of preparation measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Any The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial resulting impairment is reported through the income statement as a special item.
Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRIC interpretations for the first time and with those On classification as held for sale, the assets are no longer depreciated.
Comparative parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The amounts are not adjusted.
disclosure required by IFRS 1 First-time adoption of international financial reporting standards concerning the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS is given in note 40.
Discontinued operations are classified as held for sale and are either a separate major Accordingly the Group complies with all IFRSs including those adopted for use in the line of business or geographical area of operations that have been sold or are part of a European Union and those issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
single co-ordinated plan to be disposed of, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as view to sale.
Once an operation has been identified as discontinued, or is reclassified modified by the revaluation of biological assets and certain financial instruments.
A as continuing, the comparative information is restated.
summary of the principal Group accounting policies is set out below, together with an explanation of where changes have been made to previous IFRS policies on the $757 million of assets and $283 million of liabilities associated with disposal groups adoption of new accounting standards in the year.
were reclassified as held for sale during the year.
These disposal groups were sold prior to year end and no new disposal groups were identified as at 31 December 2005.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted Impairment charges of $36 million, after tax and minority interests, were recorded on accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reclassification of these assets.
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Basis of consolidation Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, The financial statements incorporate a consolidation of the financial statements of event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to Details of the Groups significant accounting policies and critical accounting estimates govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain are set out in the Operating and Financial Review.
Early adoption of standards The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the The Group, as a first-time IFRS reporter, has adopted early with effect from 1 January consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the 2004 the following standards and interpretations as at 31 December 2005, the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
reporting date of the Groups first IFRS financial statements: Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of subsidiaries, joint ventures IAS 19 Employee benefits amended: and associates to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.
IFRS 6 Exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources: Intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on IFRIC 1 Changes in existing decommissioning, restoration and similar liabilities: consolidation, where appropriate.
IFRIC 2 Members shares in co-operative entities and similar instruments: IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease: The interest of minority shareholders is initially stated at the minoritys proportion of IFRIC 5 Rights to interests arising from decommissioning, restoration and the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised on acquisition.
any losses applicable to the minority interest in excess of the minority interest are allocated against the interests of the parent.
We note that IFRS 6 does not impact the Groups existing policy for exploration and evaluation expenditure.
Associates Associates are investments over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant Changes in accounting policies influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial and The following IFRS accounting policy changes have been made with effect from operating policy decisions of the investee.
Typically the Group owns between 20% and 1 January 2005: 50% of the voting equity of its associates.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting except when classified as held for sale.
1 Financial instruments: and 2 Held for sale assets and discontinued operations.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition is recognised as 1 Financial instruments goodwill.
Where the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of The Group has taken the exemption under IFRS 1 to apply IAS 32 Financial instruments: the associate at the date of acquisition exceeds the cost of the acquisition, the surplus, disclosure and presentation and IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and which represents the discount on the acquisition, is credited to the income statement measurement prospectively from 1 January 2005.
As such, the financial information in the period of acquisition.
presented for the year ended 31 December 2004 excludes any adjustments required from adoption of these two standards.
The Groups share of associates profit or loss is based on their most recent audited financial statements or unaudited interim statements drawn up to the Groups balance As set out in note 41, the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2004 sheet date.
has been adjusted to apply IAS 32 and IAS 39 prospectively from 1 January 2005.
The accounting policies for financial instruments are set out below.
The total carrying values of investments in associates represent the cost of each investment including the carrying value of goodwill, the share of post-acquisition 2 Held for sale assets and discontinued operations retained earnings, any other movements in reserves and any long term debt interests The Group has applied IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued which in substance form part of the Groups net investment.
The carrying values of operations prospectively from 1 January 2005.
Application of the policy change associates are reviewed on a regular basis and if an impairment in value has occurred, is in accordance with transitional provisions set out in the standard.
it is written off in the period in which those circumstances are identified.
The Groups share of an associates losses in excess of its interest in that associate is not Previously, the Group applied IAS 35 Discontinuing operations which required the recognised unless the Group has an obligation to fund such losses.
restatement of comparative information once an operation was identified as discontinuing.
Joint venture entities Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying A joint venture entity is an entity in which the Group holds a long term interest and amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing shares joint control over the strategic, financial and operating decisions with one or use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the more other venturers under a contractual arrangement.
asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, income, expenditure and cash flows for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
of jointly controlled entities are accounted for using proportionate consolidation.
Proportionate consolidation combines the Groups share of the results of the joint venture entity on a line by line basis with similar items in the Groups financial statements.
50 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2005 1.
Accounting policies continued orebody as a whole.
Changes in the life of mine stripping ratio are accounted for Joint venture operations prospectively as a change in estimate.
The Group has contractual arrangements with other participants to engage in joint activities other than through a separate entity.
The Group includes its assets, Land and properties in the course of construction are carried at cost, less any recognised liabilities, expenditure and its share of revenue in such joint venture operations with impairment.
Depreciation commences when the assets are ready for their intended similar items in the Groups financial statements.
Buildings and plant and equipment are depreciated down to their residual values at varying rates, on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives or the life of Revenue recognition mine, whichever is shorter.
Estimated useful lives normally vary from up to 20 years Revenue is derived principally from the sale of goods and is measured at the fair value for items of plant and equipment to a maximum of 50 years for buildings.
of consideration received or receivable, after deducting discounts, volume rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes.
A sale is recognised when the significant risks Residual values and useful economic lives are reviewed at least annually.
and rewards of ownership have passed.
This is when title and insurance risk has passed to the customer, and the goods have been delivered to a contractually agreed location.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the expected useful lives of the assets.
Revenue from metal mining activities is based on the payable metal sold.
Revenues from the sale of material by-products are included within revenue.
Licences and other intangibles Licences and other intangibles are measured initially at purchase cost and are Where a by-product is not regarded as significant, revenue may be credited against the amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Estimated useful cost of sales.
The amount credited to cost of sales for the year ended 31 December lives vary between 3 and 5 years.
2005 was $76 million and $81 million for the year ended 31 December 2004 and relates principally to AngloGold Ashanti which credits uranium, silver and acid to cost Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill of sales in accordance with the Gold Industry Standard on production costs.
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets are Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding impaired.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated and at the effective interest rate applicable.
in order to determine the extent of the impairment if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit CGU to which the asset receive payment have been established.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Business combinations and goodwill arising thereon At the date of acquisition, the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
a subsidiary, joint venture entity or an associate which can be measured reliably are In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their recorded at their provisional fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which estimates of attributed to goodwill.
Provisional fair values are finalised within 12 months of the future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its carrying Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries and joint ventures is included within intangible amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Goodwill relating to associates is included within the carrying value of An impairment is recognised immediately as an expense.
Where an impairment subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset Where the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired exceeds the cost of the or CGU is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the acquisition, the surplus, which represents the discount on the acquisition, is credited to increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been the income statement in the period of acquisition.
determined had no impairment been recognised for the asset or CGU in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment is recognised as income immediately.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP carrying value subject to being tested for impairment at that Impairment of goodwill date.
Subsequent impairment tests are performed in accordance with the impairment Goodwill arising on business combinations is allocated to the group of CGUs that are policy set out below.
Goodwill that was eliminated against reserves under UK GAAP expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination and represents the lowest prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and will not be included in determining any profit level at which goodwill is monitored by the Groups board of directors for internal or loss on disposal.
Details of the CGUs to which goodwill is allocated is provided in note 12.
The recoverable amount of the group of CGUs to which Negative goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 31 December 2003 has been goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually on a consistent date eliminated against retained earnings at that date.
during each financial year, or when such events or changes in circumstances indicate that it may be impaired.
Tangible assets Mining properties and leases include the cost of acquiring and developing mining Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Impairments properties and mineral rights.
of goodwill are not subsequently reversed.
Mining properties are depreciated down to their residual values using the unit-ofResearch and exploration expenditure production method based on proven and probable reserves.
Depreciation is charged on Research and exploration expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
new mining ventures from the date that the mining property is capable of commercial When a decision is taken that a mining property is economically feasible and should be production.
When there is little likelihood of a mineral right being exploited, or the developed for commercial production, all further directly attributable, pre-production value of the exploitable mineral right has diminished below cost, a write-down to the expenditure is capitalised within tangible assets.
Capitalisation of pre-production recoverable amount is charged to the income statement.
expenditure ceases when the mining property is capable of commercial production.
Stripping costs incurred during the production phase to remove additional overburden or Capitalised pre-production expenditure prior to commercial production is assessed waste ore are deferred when they give access to future economic benefits and charged to for impairment in accordance with the Group accounting policy stated above.
operating costs using the expected average stripping ratio over the average life of the area being mined.
The average stripping ratio is calculated as the number of tonnes of Biological assets: afforestation and other agricultural activity waste material expected to be removed during the life of mine, per tonne of ore mined.
Afforestation and other agricultural assets are measured at their fair values less The average life of mine cost per tonne is calculated as the total expected costs to be estimated selling costs during the period of biological transformation, from initial incurred to mine the orebody divided by the number of tonnes expected to be mined.
recognition up to the point of harvest.
The fair values are determined based on current The average life of mine stripping ratio and the average life of mine cost per tonne is market prices for the assets in their present location and condition.
recalculated annually in light of additional knowledge and changes in estimates.
The cost of stripping in any period will therefore be reflective of the average stripping rates for the Anglo American plc Annual Report 2005 | 51 Notes to financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and Changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement within other gains and is adjusted to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will losses for the period between planting and harvest.
At point of harvest, the carrying be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
value of afforestation and other agricultural assets is transferred to inventory.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when Directly attributable costs incurred during the period of biological transformation the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the are capitalised and presented within cash flows from investing activities in the cash income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, flow statement.
in which case the deferred tax is also taken directly to equity.
Inventory Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by Inventory and work-in-progress are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and The production cost of inventory includes an appropriate proportion of depreciation and liabilities on a net basis.
Cost is determined on the following bases: Leases raw materials and consumables are valued at cost on a first-in, first-out FIFO basis: Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the income statement in equal finished products are valued at raw material cost, labour cost and a proportion annual amounts over the lease term.
of manufacturing overhead expenses: metal and coal stocks are included within finished products and are valued at Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group on inception of average cost.
the lease at the lower of fair value or the present value of the minimum lease payments derived by discounting at the interest rate implicit in the lease.
The interest Retirement benefits element of the rental is charged against profit so as to produce a constant periodic rate The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes for its of interest on the remaining balance of the liability, unless it is directly attributable to employees as well as post-retirement medical plans.
For defined contribution schemes the qualifying assets, in which case it is capitalised in accordance with the Groups general amount charged to the income statement is the contributions paid or payable policy on borrowing costs see below.
Discontinuing operations pre 1 January 2005 For defined benefit pension and post-retirement medical plans, full actuarial valuations Discontinuing operations are significant, distinguishable components of an enterprise are carried out every three years using the projected unit credit method and updates that have been sold, abandoned or are the subject of formal plans for disposal or are performed for each financial year end.
The average discount rate for the plans discontinuance.
liabilities is based on AA rated corporate bonds of a suitable duration and currency.
Pension plans assets are measured using period end market values.
Once an operation has been identified as discontinuing, or is reclassified as continuing, the comparative information is restated.
The Group has adopted the amendment to IAS 19 and as such actuarial gains and losses, which can arise from differences between expected and actual outcomes or Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised immediately in the consolidated post 1 January 2005 statement of recognised income and expense.
Any increase in the present value of Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured plan liabilities expected to arise from employee service during the period is charged to at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The expected return on plan assets and the expected increase during the period in the present value of plan liabilities are included in investment income and Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying interest expense.
amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when it is highly probable and the asset or Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management vested and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a the benefits become vested.
completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the Non-current assets are classified as held for sale from the date these conditions are present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past met and are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
service costs and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting Any resulting impairment is reported through the income statement as a special item.
from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available On classification as held for sale the assets are no longer depreciated.
Comparative refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Taxation Discontinued operations are classified as held for sale and are either a separate major The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax charge and the movement in line of business or geographical area of operations that have been sold or are part of a deferred tax.
single co-ordinated plan to be disposed of, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to sale.
Once an operation has been identified as discontinued, or is reclassified The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs as continuing, the comparative information is restated.
from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes Restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs items that are not taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is An obligation to incur restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs arises calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the when environmental disturbance is caused by the development or ongoing production balance sheet date.
Such costs arising from the installation of plant and other site preparation work, discounted to their net present value, are provided for and Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between capitalised at the start of each project, as soon as the obligation to incur such costs the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the arises.
These costs are charged against profits over the life of the operation, through corresponding tax basis used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for the depreciation of the asset and the unwinding of the discount on the provision.
Costs using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally for restoration of subsequent site damage which is created on an ongoing basis during recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised production are provided for at their net present values and charged against profits as to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which extraction progresses.
deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of goodwill or Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to the decommissioning of plant an asset or liability in a transaction other than in a business combination that affects or other site preparation work that result from changes in the estimated timing or neither the tax profit nor accounting profit.
amount of the cash flow, or a change in the discount rate, are added to, or deducted from, the cost of the related asset in the current period.
If a decrease in the liability Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on exceeds the carrying amount of the asset, the excess is recognised immediately in the investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures, and associates, except where the Group is income statement.
If the asset value is increased and there is an indication that the able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the revised carrying value is not recoverable, an impairment test is performed in temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
accordance with the accounting policy above.
52 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2005 1.
Accounting policies continued Cash and cash equivalents For some South African operations annual contributions are made to dedicated Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, together with environmental rehabilitation trusts to fund the estimated cost of rehabilitation during short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of and at the end of the life of the relevant mine.
The Group exercises full control of cash and that are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts are these trusts and therefore the trusts are consolidated.
The trusts assets are also included as a component of cash and cash equivalents.
Bank overdrafts are however recognised separately on the balance sheet as non-current assets at fair value.
Interest shown within short term borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Cash and earned on funds invested in the environmental rehabilitation trusts are accrued on a cash equivalents in the cash flow statement are shown net of overdrafts.
time proportion basis and recognised as interest income.
Trade receivables Foreign currency transactions and translation Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as Foreign currency transactions by Group companies are booked in their functional reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
currencies at the exchange rate ruling on the date of transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies Trade payables are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
arising on retranslation are included in profit or loss for the period and are classified as either operating or financing depending on the nature of the monetary item giving Equity instruments rise to them.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated into the presentation currency of the Group at exchange rates prevailing Investments pre 1 January 2005 on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average Investments, other than investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, exchange rates for the period where these approximate the rates at the dates of are fixed asset investments and are included at cost less provision for any impairment transactions.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified within equity and in value.
transferred to the Groups currency translation reserve.
The Group elected to set the currency translation reserve to zero at 1 January 2004 in accordance with IFRS 1.
Hedging transactions pre 1 January 2005 Exchange differences on foreign currency loans that form part of the Groups net In order to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity price investment in these foreign operations are offset in the currency translation reserve.
risks, the Group enters into forward, option and swap contracts.
Gains and losses on these contracts are recognised in the period to which the gains and losses of the Cumulative translation differences arising after the transition date to IFRS are recognised underlying transactions relate.
Net income or expense associated with interest rate as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation they relate to is disposed of.
swap agreements is recognised on the accrual basis over the life of the swap agreements as a component of interest.
Where commodity option contracts hedge Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are anticipated future production or purchases, the Group amortises the option premiums treated as assets of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Where paid over the life of the option and recognises any realised gains and losses on applicable, the Group has elected to treat goodwill arising on acquisitions before the exercise in the period in which the hedged production is sold or commodity purchases date of transition to IFRS as US dollar denominated assets.
Borrowing costs Convertible debt pre 1 January 2005 Interest on borrowings directly relating to the financing of qualifying capital projects Convertible bonds are recorded entirely as liabilities, irrespective of the probability of under construction is added to the capitalised cost of those projects during the future conversion, until either converted or redeemed.
construction phase, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale which, in the case of mining properties, is when they are capable Investments post 1 January 2005 of commercial production.
Where funds have been borrowed specifically to finance Investments, other than investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, a project, the amount capitalised represents the actual borrowing costs incurred.
are financial asset investments and are initially recorded at fair value.
At subsequent Where the funds used to finance a project form part of general borrowings, the amount reporting dates, financial assets that the Group has the expressed intention and ability capitalised is calculated using a weighted average of rates applicable to relevant to hold to maturity held to maturity as well as loans and receivables are measured general borrowings of the Group during the period.
at amortised cost, less any impairment.
The amortisation of any discount or premium on the acquisition of a held to maturity investment is recognised in the income All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they statement in each period using the effective interest method.
Investments other than those classified as held to maturity or loans and receivables are Share-based payments classified as either fair value through profit or loss, which includes investments held The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based payments.
In accordance for trading, or available for sale investments.
Both sub-categories are measured with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity at each reporting date at fair value.
Where investments are held for trading purposes, instruments after 7 November 2002 that had not vested as at 1 January 2005. unrealised gains and losses for the period are included in the income statement for the period within other gains and losses.
For available for sale investments, unrealised The Group makes equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees, which gains and losses are recognised in equity until the security is disposed or impaired, are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
For those share schemes which do not at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included include non-market vesting conditions, the fair value is determined using the Monte in the income statement.
Carlo method at the grant date and expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The fair Current financial asset investments post 1 January 2005 value of share options issued with non-market vesting conditions has been calculated Current financial asset investments consist mainly of bank term deposits and fixed and using the Black Scholes model.
For all other share awards, the fair value is determined floating rate debt securities.
Debt securities that are intended to be held to maturity are by reference to the market value of the share at the date of grant.
For all share recorded on the amortised cost basis.
Debt securities that are not intended to be held schemes with non-market related vesting conditions, the likelihood of vesting has been to maturity are recorded at the lower of cost and market value.
taken into account when determining the relevant charge.
Vesting assumptions are reviewed during each reporting period to ensure they reflect current expectations.
Convertible debt post 1 January 2005 Convertible bonds denominated in the functional currency of the entity issuing the shares Employee benefit trust are regarded as compound instruments, consisting of a liability and an equity component.
The carrying value of shares held by the employee benefit trust are recorded as At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component is estimated using the treasury shares, shown as a reduction in retained earnings within shareholders equity.
prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt and is recorded within borrowings.
The difference between the proceeds of issue of the convertible bond and Presentation currency the fair value assigned to the liability component, representing the embedded option to As permitted by UK company law, the Group results are presented in US dollars, the convert the liability into equity of the Group, is included in equity.
currency in which most of its business is conducted.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2005 | 53
