Financial statements of the parent company as at 31 December 2005 44e.
Independent auditors report on the individual company financial Basis of audit opinion statements to the members of Anglo American plc We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and We have audited the individual company financial statements the financial Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a statements of Anglo American plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 which test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial comprise the balance sheet note 44a, and the related notes 44b to 44d.
These statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements We have also audited the information in the directors remuneration report that is made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether described as having been audited.
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Anglo American plc for the year ended 31 December 2005.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that directors remuneration report described as having been audited are free from material we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described the Companys members as a body for our audit work, for this report, or for the as having been audited.
Opinion Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors In our opinion: The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the directors remuneration report and the individual company financial statements in accordance the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United with applicable United Kingdom law and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, of the state of the Companys Accounting Principles are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
affairs as at 31 December 2005: and the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the directors described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with remuneration report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant the Companies Act 1985.
United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Deloitte & Touche LLP We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors view in accordance with the relevant framework and whether the financial statements London and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly 21 February 2006 prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements.
We also report to you if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Company is not disclosed.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not complied with any of the four directors remuneration disclosure requirements specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These comprise the amount of each element in the remuneration package and information on share options, details of long term incentive schemes, and money purchase and defined benefit schemes.
We give a statement, to the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the directors report and the other information contained in the Annual Report for the above year as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
88 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2005
