Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Marshalls plc We have audited the Group and Parent Company We read other information contained in the Annual Financial Statements the Financial Statements of Report and consider whether it is consistent with the Marshalls plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 audited Financial Statements.
We consider the which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, implications for our report if we become aware of any the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the with the Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and not extend to any other information.
Expense and the related Notes.
These Financial Basis of audit opinion Statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the We conducted our audit in accordance with information in the Directors Remuneration Report that International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland is described as having been audited.
issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence This report is made solely to the Companys members, as relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Financial a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Statements and the part of the  Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of undertaken so that we might state to the Companys the significant estimates and judgments made by the members those matters we are required to state to Directors in the preparation of the Financial Statements, them in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
To and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or to the Groups and Companys circumstances, assume responsibility to anyone other than the consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all have formed.
the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence Respective responsibilities of Directors to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements and the part of the  and Auditors Report to be audited are free from material The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Report and the Group Financial Statements in irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also accordance with applicable law and International evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the information in the Financial Statements and the part of EU, and for preparing the Parent Company Financial the  Report to be audited.
Statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Opinion Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice In our opinion: are set out in the Statement of  on page 29.. the Group Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December and the part of the  Report to be 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended: audited in accordance with relevant legal and.
the Group Financial Statements have been properly regulatory requirements and International Standards on prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Auditing UK and Ireland.
1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial.
the Parent Company Financial Statements give a Statements give a true and fair view and whether the true and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2005: prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and and whether, in addition, the Group Financial.
the Parent Company Financial Statements and the Statements have been properly prepared in accordance part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to audited have been properly prepared in accordance you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not with the Companies Act 1985. consistent with the Financial Statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants and we require for our audit, or if information specified by Registered Auditor law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
1 The Embankment Neville Street Leeds LS1 4DW We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the 10 March 2006 nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and Marshalls plc Annual Report 2005 45 control procedures.
