Report of the Audit Committee The Board has an established Audit Committee the The Committees work includes a review of the Committee.
During the year the Committee Interim and Annual Financial Statements and the members were the three Independent NonGroups accounting policies.
It recommends these Executive Directors being Richard Scholes who statements and policies to the Board for approval.
chairs the Committee, Andrew Allner and, with The Committee also monitors and reviews the effect from 7 March 2005, Bill Husselby.
The Board is effectiveness of internal control activities.
During satisfied that this Committee includes members the year it considered whether there was a need for that have recent and relevant financial experience an in-house internal audit function.
It concluded, required by the Code.
Richard Scholes is a having reviewed the current process where firms of Chartered Accountant.
Andrew Allner is also a external accountants other than the Companys Chartered Accountant and is the Group Finance auditors carry out regular internal audit Director of RHM plc.
assignments of a financial and systems nature, that this was the most effective means of managing the The main role and responsibilities of the Audit internal audit function.
Committee are set out in written Terms of Reference which were reviewed during the year The Committee reviewed the Internal Audit and are available on the Companys website at Programme and the results of all the assignments.
These assignments form part of a much wider programme of independently audited aspects of The Committee has primary responsibility for the Groups operations.
making a recommendation on the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external During the year, the Committee reviewed the auditor to the Board, to put to shareholders for their arrangements by which employees, and other approval at the Annual General Meeting.
It keeps people working for the Group, may in confidence under review the scope and results of the audit, its raise concerns about possible improprieties in cost-effectiveness and the independence and matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The objectivity of the auditor.
Any work awarded to the Groups Serious Concerns Policy is available to all external auditors with a value in excess of 25,000, employees and the Committee is satisfied that or in aggregate a value exceeding 50,000 in any arrangements are in place for the proportionate financial year, other than audit and tax compliance, and independent investigation of such matters and requires the specific approval of the Committee.
Where the Committee perceives that the independence of the external auditors could be The Report of the Audit Committee has been compromised, the work will not be awarded to the approved by the Board.
Details of amounts paid to the external auditors for audit and non-audit services Richard Scholes in 2005 are analysed in Note 4 on page 59.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee aggregate amount paid to other firms of 10 March 2006 accountants for non-audit services was 225,000 2004: 536,000.
