Annual report 2005 Notes 1 Accounting Policies a Basis of accounting and consolidation The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain freehold and leasehold properties, in accordance with applicable accounting standards and the Companies Act 1985.
The segmental analysis comparatives have been restated, as explained in note 2.
"The Group continues to follow the transitional arrangements permitted by FRS 17, ""Post retirement benefits"" see note 21."
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the audited financial statements of The Wolverhampton & Dudley Breweries, PLC and all of its subsidiary undertakings for the 52 weeks ended 1 October 2005 2004: 53 weeks ended 2 October 2004.
The results of new subsidiary undertakings are included in the Group accounts from the date of acquisition.
The consolidated financial statements also incorporate the results of W&DB Issuer PLC, a company set up with the sole purpose of issuing debt securitised on assets owned by the Group.
The Directors consider this company meets the definition of a quasi-subsidiary under FRS5 and hence it has been treated as a subsidiary for the purpose of the consolidated financial statements.
b Turnover and other operating income Turnover represents the value of goods and services supplied to customers, and rents receivable from licensed properties.
Rental income is recognised in respect of the period to which it relates.
Turnover is recorded net of discounts, intra-Group transactions and VAT.
Other operating income comprises mainly rents from unlicensed properties.
c Stocks Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes direct materials and a proportion of appropriate overheads.
d Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date which give rise to an obligation to pay more or less tax in the future.
Timing differences are differences between the Group's taxable profits and profits as stated in the accounts.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted and assets are only recognised where recoverability is probable.
e Tangible fixed assets Freehold and leasehold properties are stated at valuation or at cost.
Plant, furnishings, equipment and other similar items are stated at cost.
Freehold buildings are depreciated to their residual value on a straight line basis over 50 years.
Other tangible fixed assets are depreciated to their residual value on a straight line basis at rates calculated to provide for the cost of the assets over their anticipated useful lives.
Leasehold properties are depreciated over the lower of the lease period and 50 years and other tangible assets over periods ranging from three to 15 years.
Own labour directly attributable to capital projects is capitalised.
Valuation of properties: Trading properties are revalued professionally by independent valuers on a five-year rolling basis.
When a valuation or expected proceeds are below current carrying value the asset concerned is reviewed for impairment.
Impairment losses are charged directly to the revaluation reserve until the carrying amount reaches historical cost.
Deficits below historical cost are charged to the profit and loss account except to the extent that the value in use exceeds the valuation in which case this is taken to the revaluation reserve.
Surpluses on revaluation are recognised in the revaluation reserve, except to the extent that they reverse previously charged impairment losses, in which case they are recorded in the profit and loss account.
Any negative valuations are accounted for as onerous leases and included within provisions see note 20. f Fixed asset disposals Profit loss on fixed asset disposals is net sale proceeds less carrying value of the assets.
44 W&DB 2005 Annual report 2005 Notes 1 Accounting Policies continued g Pensions Pension costs for the Group's final salary pension schemes are charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost of pensions over the average working life of employees, in accordance with the recommendations of independent qualified actuaries.
Variations from the regular cost are spread over the average remaining service lives of the employees.
Pension costs for the Group's defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the profit and loss account in the period incurred.
h Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, less provision for permanent diminution in value.
i Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP Investments in own shares held by the ESOP trust are deducted from share capital and reserves until the shares have vested unconditionally to specific employees.
j Trade loans Trade loans provided to publicans who purchase from the Group are recorded as fixed asset investments.
They are linked to supply terms and are of a long-term nature.
Trade loans are held at the lower of the amount advanced and the recoverable amount.
k Goodwill and negative goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired.
Goodwill is capitalised and amortised through the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over its useful economic life up to a presumed maximum of 20 years.
The Directors consider the carrying value of goodwill and make appropriate adjustments to reflect the disposal of certain assets to which it relates.
Where goodwill is impaired, the charge is taken to the profit and loss account.
Negative goodwill is recognised on acquisition where the fair value of the identifiable net assets exceeds the fair value of the consideration.
The difference is treated as negative goodwill and included within intangible fixed assets.
It is amortised over the estimated useful life of the non-monetary assets acquired.
l Leases Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account over the term of the lease.
The cost of assets held under finance leases is included within tangible fixed assets and depreciation is provided in accordance with the policy for the class of asset concerned.
The corresponding obligations under these leases are shown as creditors.
The finance charge element of rentals is charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
m Financial instruments The issue costs of debt instruments are held at cost and are charged to the profit and loss account over the term of the debt at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
