Statement of Accounting Policies for the 52 weeks ended 26th February 2005 Accounting policies Freehold buildings 50 years The financial statements have been prepared under the historical Alteration to leasehold premises Over the life of cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 the lease and applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom.
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3 - 10 years A summary of the more important accounting policies is set out I. T. software and equipment 3 - 5 years below.
These have been applied consistently with the exception of changes arising from the implementation of UITF 38 Accounting Motor, commercial vehicles and trailers 3 - 10 years for ESOP Trusts and UITF 17 2003 revised Employee Share Freehold land is not depreciated.
The impact of the change in accounting policy is set out in note 27.
Foreign currencies The balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings are Basis of consolidation expressed in Sterling at year end exchange rates.
Profits and losses The consolidated financial statements include the Company and all of overseas subsidiary undertakings are expressed in Sterling at its subsidiary undertakings.
Subsidiary undertakings acquired average exchange rates for the year.
Exchange differences on during the year are recorded under the acquisition method and these re-translations are taken to the profit and loss reserve.
their results are included from the date of acquisition.
Intra-Group sales and profits are eliminated fully on consolidation.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the end of Turnover the financial year or, where appropriate, the rate of exchange fixed Turnover, which excludes value added tax and trade discount, under the terms of the relevant transaction.
All these foreign represents the value of goods supplied through retail shops and exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account in wholesaling.
the year in which they arise.
Retail turnover, which is net of returns, is recognised in the financial Stocks statements on a cash basis.
Wholesale turnover is recognised on Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost despatch of goods to the customer.
is based on purchase cost on a first in, first out basis.
Net realisable value is the price at which stocks can be sold in the normal course Goodwill and other intangible assets of business after deducting costs of realisation.
Provisions are Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings made as appropriate for obsolescence, markdown and shrinkage.
representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the separately identifiable net assets acquired, Operating leases together with associated costs is capitalised and amortised over its Costs in respect of operating leases are charged on a straight line estimated useful economic life of twenty years.
Goodwill is reviewed basis over the lease term.
annually for evidence of impairment and provision is made where necessary to write it down to its recoverable value.
Other intangible Contributions and other incentives to enter into new operating assets are amortised over their useful economic life.
leases are deferred and released to the profit and loss account in equal annual instalments over the period until the next rent review.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less depreciation.
Cost is Finance leases purchase price together with any incidental expenses of acquisition.
Leasing agreements, which transfer to the Group substantially all Revenue costs relating to opening new stores are expensed as the benefits and risks of ownership of an asset, are treated as if the incurred.
Provision for depreciation is made so as to write off the asset had been purchased outright.
The assets are included in fixed cost of tangible fixed assets to their residual value on a straight line assets and the capital element of the leasing commitments is shown basis over the expected useful economic life of the assets as obligations under finance leases.
The lease rentals are treated as concerned.
Depreciation is charged over the following periods: consisting of capital and interest elements.
The capital element is 27 Statement of Accounting Policies continued applied to reduce the outstanding obligations and the interest Share scheme costs element is charged against profit in proportion to the reducing Where employee options are granted over these shares, the deficit capital element outstanding.
Assets held under finance leases are between the option exercise price and the market value at the date depreciated over the shorter of the lease terms and the useful lives of grant is written off over the performance period of the option.
This represents a change in accounting policy and the impact is explained in note 27.
Deferred tax Deferred taxation is recognised in the accounts on all timing Financial instruments differences.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised when it is more Where the Group is a party to derivative financial instruments, likely than not that they will be realised in the future.
Deferred tax primarily to manage exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency provisions are not discounted.
exchange rates, differences between market values and contract values on these derivatives are not recognised until maturity of the ESOP trusts contracts.
The resulting gains or losses are offset against foreign Own shares bought to satisfy employee share schemes are held exchange gains or losses on the related currency transaction and within an ESOP trust until they vest unconditionally with the taken through the profit and loss account.
Consideration paid for shares held within the ESOP trust is deducted from distributable equity reserves.
Liquid resources, as stated in the cash flow statement, represents Gains and losses arising on purchase or sale of these shares are not cash deposited with banking institutions for a fixed return over a recognised in the performance statements of the Group.
This period of not more than six months.
represents a change in accounting policy and the impact is explained in note 27.
