McCarthy & Stone plc - Annual Report & Accounts Accounting Policies The following accounting policies have been used in dealing with items that are considered material in relation to the Group accounts.
There are no changes to the policies used in previous periods, except that the accounting policy applicable to freehold reversionary and house manager flat freehold interests has changed prospectively with effect from April 2005 as explained below.
Basis of accounting The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified by the revaluation of certain fixed assets, and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
The true and fair override provisions of the Companies Act 1985 have been invoked - see 'Investment Properties' below.
A separate profit and loss account for the parent company has not been presented as permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act, 1985.
Basis of consolidation All subsidiaries prepare their accounts to 31 August and their results are included in the Group accounts in full except where a subsidiary or business has been acquired or disposed of during the year, in which case its results are included or excluded from the date control passes.
Investment properties Investment properties are valued on the following bases: i Freehold Reversionary Interests FRIs Until April 2005, FRIs were treated as fixed asset investments and were recognised by way of a transfer from stock to fixed assets at the point of sale of the related individual units.
The investment was held at directors valuation and in the event of subsequent sale any difference between proceeds and carrying value was recognised as a gain or loss on disposal of fixed assets.
With effect from April 2005, the Group entered into an arrangement with a third party to sell its FRIs on a regular basis.
This fundamentally changed the nature of the Groups interests in FRIs and accordingly they are no longer considered a fixed asset investment and no transfer from stock is made.
The proceeds of the sale of the interests is deferred and released to turnover as the related individual unit is sold.
ii House Manager Flat Freehold Interests HMFIs Until April 2005, HMFIs, like FRIs, were treated as fixed asset investments.
The arrangement to sell FRIs, discussed above, also covers HMFIs and accordingly no HMFI asset is now recognised and the proceeds of sale are deferred as for FRIs.
iii Other investment properties Equity interests arising from an historic sales incentive scheme arrangement are included in fixed assets investment properties at the value of the equity interest.
In accordance with Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 19, investment properties are normally revalued annually and the aggregate surplus or deficit is transferred to a revaluation reserve: no depreciation or amortisation is provided in respect of freehold investment properties and leasehold investment properties with over 20 years to run.
Although the Companies Act would normally require the systematic annual depreciation of fixed assets, the Directors believe that this policy of not providing depreciation is necessary in order for the accounts to give a true and fair view, since the current value of investment properties, and changes in that current value, are of prime importance rather than a calculation of systematic annual depreciation.
Depreciation is only one of the many factors reflected in the annual valuation, and the amount that might otherwise have been shown cannot be separately identified or quantified.
Turnover Turnover represents the value of the grant of leasehold interests in retirement apartments sold.
It is recognised on legal completion and is stated net of discounts and excluding value added tax.
With effect from April 2005, turnover also includes the proceeds received from third parties on the sale of FRIs and HMFIs to the extent that the underlying leasehold interests in the retirement apartments have been granted.
61 McCarthy & Stone plc - Annual Report & Accounts Accounting Policies Other Income Other income includes rents receivable, profits arising from the disposal of undeveloped land sites sold, and profits arising from the realisation of historic incentive scheme assets.
Other investments Other investments are recorded at cost.
Provision is made against the carrying value of other investments when the Directors consider that there has been a permanent diminution in value.
Investments in joint ventures are recorded using the gross equity method.
Other tangible fixed assets Long leasehold land and buildings are shown at historic cost.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Freehold buildings are depreciated over fifty years.
Leasehold land and buildings are depreciated over fifty years or the remaining life of the lease, if lower.
Fixtures, fittings and equipment are written off in equal annual installments in order to write off their cost over their estimated useful lives of between 3 and 10 years.
The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Stocks Stocks are valued at the lower of average cost and estimated net realisable value.
The cost of work in progress and finished stock comprises the actual cost of land purchases, which are accounted for from the date of contract exchange, when the Group obtains effective control of the site, actual building costs and attributable production overheads.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less net book cost and further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less or to receive more tax, with the following exceptions: provision is made for tax on gains arising from the revaluation and similar fair value adjustments of fixed assets, and gains on disposal of fixed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is a binding agreement to dispose of the assets concerned.
However, no provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to tax only where the replacement assets are sold: deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Leased assets and hire purchase contracts Assets used by the Group that have been funded through finance leases and hire purchase contracts are capitalised and the resulting future obligations are included in creditors.
All other leases are operating leases and the rental charges are taken to profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
Pension schemes The company and its UK subsidiaries operate a defined contribution pension scheme.
The amount charged to the profit and loss account represents contributions payable to the individual policies effected by employees with independent insurance companies in funds separate from the company's finances.
Own shares UITF Abstract 38, Accounting for ESOP trusts, requires the assets and liabilities of the Groups investments in own shares to be recognised in the Groups financial statements where there is fide facto control of those assets and liabilities.
The costs of the Companys own shares held by a Qualifying Employee Share Trust and a Deferred Bonus Trust are deducted from shareholders funds until they vest unconditionally with employees.
