24 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1 2 Meggitt businesses have always operated to high standards in quality, health, safety and the environment.
We support local communities and try to be responsible neighbours.
In 2000, we formalised Meggitts environmental policy and reported Risk on the Groups environmental performance in subsequent annual The management of risk is fundamental to effective business reports.
Following growing interest in our performance on a wider management and Meggitt has implemented systems across the Group range of issues, we report on both in the context of Corporate to identify and manage significant social, environmental and economic Social Responsibility CSR.
These are reviewed by our operations executive and board of directors every six months and appropriate action taken if applicable.
Meggitts CSR principles involve conformance to sound standards of Internal Control is described in detail on page 33. corporate governance and compliance with all relevant legislation and regulations.
Our commitment to continual improvement of our Working at Meggitt financial, social and environmental performance encompasses providing We have always recognised that Meggitts success stands or falls on employees with a supportive, rewarding and safe working environment, attracting and retaining skilled and motivated people.
All Meggitt ethical business conduct, local community support and minimising the businesses embrace non-discrimination and equal employment environmental impact of our products and processes.
Many of our US-based businesses execute externally audited Affirmative Action plans.
Nacesa in Spain, for example, Towards the end of 2002, we conducted the first CSR survey of our subcontracts the work of 50 people to centres for local disadvantaged businesses.
The results were set against our CSR principles and will be people.
All Meggitt businesses provide their employees with a used to define areas for improvement.
Environ, our environmental and supportive and safe working environment.
CSR consultants, collated and analysed the data.
Many staff have been with us for at least five years and some for much Terry Twigger, Chief Executive, takes overall responsibility for CSR longer.
Engineering businesses tend to attract a high ratio of men.
Day-to-day responsibility rests with our business unit Meggitt, 65 per cent of the workforce consists of men and 35 per cent managing directors.
Governance We provide training to all staff and encourage the development of new Corporate governance is taken very seriously by Meggitt and is skills.
For example, Endevco is the first company to have obtained described in detail under the Directors Statement on Corporate matched funding from the Californian state to train 125 employees in Governance page 32.
These employees achieved an exemplary 94 per cent completion rate, far above the 56 per cent average achieved by most companies on this programme.
Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2002 25 3 4 5 1, 2, 3 We have always recognised that Meggitts success stands or falls on attracting and retaining skilled and motivated people.
4, 5 In 2002, with Meggitts support, a Golden Jubilee open air concert saw students playing with professional musicians in choral music, jazz and compositions for brass ensembles.
Further education has been sponsored for a number of Meggitt Local communities employees including MBA and other Masters degrees.
Support for local communities is exemplified in a number of ways, including provision of local employment.
The percentage of employees Health and safety living within a 4km radius of a Meggitt site is as high as 95 per cent in We take the health, safety and welfare of our employeesand those some businesses.
who visit our sitesvery seriously.
Every reasonable effort is made to secure safer working conditions through safety training and the Adding value to local communities is also realised through education provision of protective equipment.
partnerships involving community and technical colleges, and state universities.
Sometimes they are used to train staff.
More often we During 2002 we conducted the first formal independent health and provide students with work experience, internships, mentoring and safety audit of a Meggitt facility outside the USA at Bestobell careers guidance.
Many Meggitt employees are school governors or Products, Slough, UK and the recommendations are being are involved with school clubs.
Audits at three other UK sites are planned during 2003.
In the USA, such audits are undertaken regularly.
Vibro-Meters Managing Director chairs a local Swiss venture capital fund for young entrepreneurs, a theme echoed at Vibro-Meters UK Ethical business arm with two employees advising a local Young Enterprise initiative.
We are committed to conducting business relationships in an ethical Human Resources Adviser, Vanessa Ramsden and Materials Manager, way and to honouring contracts with suppliers, contractors and Steve Parker advise a group of local teenagers on business.
youngsters register a company, form a board of directors, organise a No gifts or donations to political parties, trade union or other share-purchase scheme with a small grant, hold regular committee organisations are permitted.
meetings and market a real business with real products and services.
Competing with other school teams, they give presentations to a Young We discourage gifts to Meggitt staff that might give rise to a conflict Enterprise Committee.
The company is then liquidated using correct of interest.
Surplus funds are returned to shareholders.
Avica UK provides an insight into aerospace manufacture and design to engineering and management undergraduates from several UK and Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2002 26 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED 1 2 3 Above: Local, community-oriented donations, sponsorships and education 3 Whittakers Director of Contracts, Ann Sheldall was recently commended by programmes characterise many Meggitt businesses.
1 For over 20 years, Endevco the Defense Contract Management Agency for her outstanding contribution to a has provided an annual scholarship at Saddleback College, Mission Viejo.
2 At training programme designed to help primary manufacturers and subcontractors Endevco, waste water storage has been reduced from 15,100 litres to none due achieve their Small Business Subcontracting Program goals.
to a new evaporator and on-site treatment system.
European universities by providing them with industrial placements.
Customers and suppliers The company takes part in the UK Ministry of Defences undergraduate Several Meggitt companies regularly conduct customer satisfaction placement programme.
surveys to identify and meet their needs.
In supplying safetyor mission-critical products, compliance with the highest standards of Local, community-oriented donations, sponsorships and education performance, delivery and quality is critical if we are to bid for and win programmes characterise many Meggitt businesses.
Our customers include the leading aerospace and defence Endevco has provided an annual scholarship for one engineering organisations with relationships commonly spanning decades.
We have student at Saddleback College, Mission Viejo.
Local schoolchildren are worked for some customers for half a century.
Donations support child development, clinical research, after-school clubs and local community organisations Whittaker Controls has consistently received Outstanding ratings from for the poor and underprivileged.
the United States government for its contribution to the Small Business Subcontracting Program.
In 2002, Whittaker significantly Meggitts headquarters in the United Kingdom has a longstanding exceeded the programmes goals by awarding 75 per cent of all relationship with the Bournemouth Symphony Orchestra and the local material purchases to small businesses, nine per cent to small comprehensive school.
Meggitt facilitated a partnership between them businesses owned by women and two per cent to small, which helps to develop music and performance skills among pupils and disadvantaged businesses.
Whittakers Director of Contracts, Ann helps raise money for musical instruments and professional tuition.
In Sheldall was recently commended by the Defense Contract 2002, with Meggitts support, a Golden Jubilee open air concert saw Management Agency for her outstanding contribution to a training students playing with professional musicians in choral music, jazz and programme designed to help primary manufacturers and subcontractors compositions for brass ensembles.
Meggitt PLCs sponsorship, now in achieve their Small Business Subcontracting Program goals.
its sixth year, of a local National Health Service hospital trust involves a number of morale-boosting awards for service and achievement and educational bursaries.
Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2002 27 Employees by Employees by qualification length of service years Less than 5 Technical and professional 5 to 10 First degrees 10 to 15 Higher degrees 15 to 20 Other 20 to 25 25 The environment treatment system.
Meggitt Avionics S-Tec has discontinued its printed We are committed to minimising the environmental impact of our circuit board line, dramatically decreasing the alcohol and flux used at operations through good environmental management practices.
19 Meggitt businesses already have an environmental management All Meggitt businesses record energy use and a key performance system in place, one of which Nacesa is certified to ISO 14001 the indicator KPI has been developed against which we can benchmark internationally accepted environmental management standard.
We record data on waste quantities to create We are aiming to implement ISO 14001 in many of Meggitts businesses another KPI to help identify new waste minimisation opportunities.
and accreditation should be granted before the end of 2003.
Meggitt has systems in place to respond to complaints from its We are introducing pollution prevention measures throughout our neighbours.
None were reported during 2002. businesses based on better operational control and designing efficiency The future into new products.
At Endevco, waste water storage has been reduced We will continue to develop and implement good practices that benefit from 15,100 litres to none due to a new evaporator and on-site our businesses, employees, customers, suppliers and communities.
Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2002
