corporate responsibility SHARE CAPITAL The Board recognises that the Group has a responsibility to act The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, together ethically, over and above narrowly-defined or short-term economic with details of the movements in the Companys issued share interests, in relation to the physical and social environment in capital during the year, are shown in note 33 on page 69. which it operates.
Its operations potentially impact on local communities, and in this area the Group takes its social and ethical At the 2001 AGM shareholders authorised the Directors to make responsibilities seriously, paying due regard to local laws and market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares up to a customs, while eschewing practices which are considered improper.
maximum nominal value of 0.58m, which represented 10% of issued share capital.
This authority has not been used either during THE ENVIRONMENT the 2002 financial year or subsequently.
The Directors intend that As all its businesses operate in the computer software and support this power should only be used under specific circumstances and it systems, Misys has very low primary and direct environmental is proposed that the authority be renewed at the forthcoming AGM.
impacts: as such it is intrinsically a clean company.
Also included in the business of the 2002 AGM are proposals to Misys acknowledges that there are environmental impacts renew the Directors authorities to allot shares for cash up to associated with running any business and it is committed to prescribed limits.
Details are given in the Notice of AGM.
quantifying these wherever possible and to evaluating the scope for reducing them over the medium to long term.
The Board believes SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS that in many circumstances the needs of the Groups businesses As at 17 July 2002, the Company had been notified by the can be aligned with environmental concerns, so that the reduction following that they held an interest of more than 3% in the in environmental impacts can benefit the Group in cash terms.
Companys issued share capital: In 2001 the Company established an Environmental Committee AEGON UK 3.09% to develop a coherent Group-wide environmental policy and to encourage its implementation across the Group with a view to Fidelity 3.07% reducing environmental impacts where possible.
The Environmental Committee includes two members of the Board.
The Company GOING CONCERN participates in the Business in the Environment Index of Corporate After making due enquiry, including the Groups forecasting Environmental Engagement.
During the 2002 financial year data on process, the Directors consider that the Group has adequate energy and resource usage has been collected from the Groups UK resources and committed borrowing facilities to continue in operating sites and will be evaluated shortly.
As part of the operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Consequently, Company's aim to reduce paper consumption, communications to they have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing employees on such matters as benefits are e-mailed or appear on the financial statements.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING MISYS IN THE COMMUNITY The 2002 AGM will take place at 12 noon on Tuesday 1 October As a global information technology leader with operations 2002 at The City Presentation Centre, 4 Chiswell Street, London spanning five continents, Misys plc makes its broader contribution EC1Y 4UP.
to society through the activities of the Misys Charitable The Notice of AGM, which has been sent to shareholders with Foundation.
The Foundation was formed in November 1997, this Report, explains the business to be considered at the meeting, with the aim of supporting the advancement of education in including a proposal to adopt new Articles of Association.
information and communications technology worldwide.
It provides financial support to those students and educational AUDITORS institutions that have already demonstrated a strong commitment  have expressed their willingness to to achieving their goals and it seeks the establishment of long-term continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them relationships with both the individuals and the educational will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The core support activity of the Foundation is in the form of On behalf of the Board scholarships available only through partner institutions both in the UK and in many of the countries where Misys has business.
Paul Waters It is funded directly through donations from Misys, reflecting the Company Secretary Boards strong commitment to the Foundations aims.
Contributions 17 July 2002 totalling 33,000 were made during the year by the Company.
Further details of the Foundation and its activities can be found at www.
com under the heading Community.
Donations by the Group to charities other than the Foundation amounted to 105,000 during the year.
The Company made no political donations in the year under review 2001 : nil.
