Corporate responsibility We continue to recognise the responsibilities that the Group Areas on which our reporting is focused: and its operations have within the communities in which we the environment: operate.
improving public transport, covering areas such as safety, punctuality and reliability of services: This year we have produced our first corporate responsibility recruiting, retaining and developing our staff: and report, which incorporates our second environmental involvement in the community.
This document is available in hard copy and from www.
It explains our approach During the year, we continued to work with a range of charities to doing business, which put simply is what we do and across our operations.
In North America, Durham School Services how we do it.
continued its support of the Special Olympics, a charity that it has supported for the past four years.
Stock Transportation, which In 2001 the following environmental objectives were set: joined the Group during the year, supports a range of charities measuring performance: that are related to education.
In the UK and Australia a wide range reviewing the benefits of adopting a formalised of charities were supported.
environmental management system: assessing and providing the necessary training: During this year the Group has adopted two charities for special encouraging and empowering managers to implement support National Missing Persons Helpline and the World the strategy: Wildlife Trusts.
Both these charities meet the Groups charity reviewing objectives and targets for improvements in our criteria and are ones with which we believe we can work in environmental performance: partnership.
setting up an internal communications process for the transfer of best practice: National Missing Persons Helpline is a national charity which communicating on these matters to key stakeholders: and works with all the police forces across the country seeking news introducing broader social aspects into the policy and report.
of people who may have gone missing.
The hotline number provides missing people and their relatives with a way to keep in We are pleased that progress in all these areas has been achieved.
With promotion of the helpline number being the main objective, we will be helping the charity extend During the year we put an initial framework in place to help its profile across the country through promotional opportunities assist us report on broader corporate responsibility data.
Our at travel facilities such as coach stations.
businesses each consist of a collection of operations which have local strengths and individual reporting procedures.
This can The World Wildlife Trusts will be supported by the Group as it create challenges in collecting data for corporate social reporting works with us on developing a biodiversity strategy.
In return processes, but to help we have begun to roll-out a set of key the Group will be providing assistance to ensure the continued performance indicators which can be applied initially across progress of the Seaquest Basking Shark Project.
We believe that a partnership approach with such organisations can be mutually beneficial as well as fun for our staff, a number of whom will be supporting these charities as the year progresses.
Left: Keen to avoid throwing away serviceable clothing, Central Trains has sent more than 1,000 unused items to Africa for use by charities.
Right: Durham Transportation has an established reputation as a primary sponsor of the Special Olympics, which are held every four years.
It gives less able children sports training and competition programmes.
The Special Olympics are dedicated to empowering individuals with mental disabilities to become physically fit, productive and respected members of society through sports training and competition.
