Employees and Social Responsibility Leadership Development Employee Involvement Health and Safety 2002 has seen significant change to the The Group believes that involving its The Board is aware of its responsibilities organisation which has allowed the employees in all aspects of its business, towards its employees and all users of Group to provide excellent development particularly the economic and financial the Groups services in health and safety opportunities for its existing staff, whilst factors affecting the Groups performance, matters.
It recognises its ultimate at the same time actively recruiting new is crucial to its future success.
It is always responsibility for the setting and leaders in certain key businesses.
The seeking ways to improve communication monitoring of appropriate policies, Group believes that this continued focus across its businesses, both between its guidelines and practices in the formal on the balance of internal and external central and operational functions and Schedule of Matters Reserved for the development of talent is crucial to its between the various operations themselves.
During the year future success.
The value of experienced a comprehensive review has taken place high-performing staff will be regularly Established consultative arrangements of the entire Groups Health and Safety enhanced by the recruitment of external with elected representatives of employees policies and procedures.
This has been personnel, who continually bring fresh have been used on an ongoing basis essential to ensure that the standards are ideas and challenges to the Group.
throughout 2002, rstly as an important consistent across the Group, particularly means of imparting knowledge and given its expansion through the This year, we have continued to focus information to employees and secondly to acquisition of a number of small on skills training of both employees facilitate the significant changes that the businesses throughout the year.
and members, to meet the standards Group has gone through during the year.
set by both our customers and recent The Groups Director of Human Government initiatives, for example, It is the Groups policy to encourage employees Resources is directly accountable to Care Standards, which are due to be to participate in its success, through a the Chief Executive for overseeing the implemented in April.
variety of performance-related incentive implementation of the recommendations arrangements, including the provision of of the review and is working closely with The changes to the organisations savings-related share option2 schemes.
the Divisional Managing Directors to roll structures and personnel, particularly in out the revised policies and reporting our Primecare Primary Care business will Internal circulars and newsletters are arrangements.
A report of achievement continue throughout 2003 and although issued regularly, increasingly through the against strategy is prepared for the Boards these changes will result in the reuse of new media to reach our employees consideration on a semi-annual basis.
alignment of the workforce, there faster and more effectively.
The Group remains a strong need to complement is also upgrading its IT infrastructure Each of the Groups two divisions have these with in-depth training on the new that will allow even more timely and established health and safety committees skills, processes and technology that will comprehensive information to reach which met regularly during the year to allow for future prosperity.
its employees on a regular basis.
monitor the implementation of the This year, we have continued to focus on skills training of both employees and members, to meet standards set not only by Government initiatives but also by our customers.
23 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Employees and Social Responsibility continued Groups health and safety strategy runs.
It also initiated a number of projects The policy provides for the promotion across the businesses for which they are intended to benefit the environment as of an understanding of environmental responsible.
The membership of each well as raise funds for charitable causes, consideration across the Group and all includes representatives from the Groups such as recycling used toner cartridges.
managers are directed to encourage staff health and safety committee, along with Throughout the UK, the Groups branches to follow the good practice outlined in managers and HR professionals from the regularly support charities pertinent to the policy at all times.
their own locality or business sector, as well as the Charity of the Year.
The aims of the Groups environmental In addition to the above, an ongoing policy are: training programme supports the Environmental policy effective implementation of this process As a service-based organisation, with no to take all practical steps to ensure which is based on a comprehensive series manufacturing and limited transportation the Groups business activities have of risk assessments and reporting facilities, the Groups exposure to the minimum negative impact on arrangements.
environmental risk is limited, as is its ability the environment to control the environmental impact of to achieve the most economic its activities.
and careful use of sources of fuel Charity of the Year As part of its commitment to UK health and energy and social care, the Group asks many of However, the Group and its businesses to minimise the production of waste its branches every year to vote for the are committed to following the best to make the maximum practical use organisation or charity they would like environmental practices in the day-to-day of recycling.
to support as Charity of the Year.
conduct of their business and the management of their resources and The policy also provides that the Board is Throughout 2002, the Group supported facilities.
During the year, the Group ultimately responsible for ensuring that fundraising activities on behalf of the continued to rene the formal the obligations imposed by all current and Christian Lewis Trust.
This is a UK environmental policy adopted by the future environmental legislation are met.
charity supporting children with Board in 2000 and completed its roll-out cancer and their families.
to all newly-acquired Group businesses.
Responsibility for the co-ordination of The policy document, which is directed the policy throughout the Group rests The Group is always looking for new at minimising the potential impact of the with the Board, with the Chief Executive ways in which to involve its employees in Groups operations on the environment, having specic responsibility.
The policy the communities in which they are based.
provides that the Groups Board retains is administered by the Groups Director A number of successful programmes ultimate responsibility for setting and of Human Resources.
were run throughout 2002, ranging monitoring its policy on environmental from dress-down days to sponsored matters.
The Group and its businesses are committed to following the best environmental practices in the day-to-day conduct of their businesses and management of their resources and facilities.
24 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Specialist advisors are appointed by the Group.
It also recognises the importance Director of Human Resources as required to the Group of operating to the highest to ensure that best practice is followed, possible ethical standards, bearing in that the Group is aware of potential mind the nature of the services offered opportunities to improve performance by Group companies and the needs of and that all legislative and statutory their clients.
At the Groups Business Resource The directors of the Groups operating Centre in Hateld, most gifts received companies are responsible for ensuring by members of staff from suppliers and compliance with the policy.
Where potential suppliers are auctioned amongst appropriate, departmental representatives all staff where practicable and the or co-ordinators have been appointed to proceeds of such auctions are donated act as advisors and a focal point for the to the Groups Charity of the Year.
dissemination of information and the promotion of initiatives to improve the All senior managers are required to immediate environment, reducing waste declare, on an annual basis, any and ensuring that the objectives of the hospitality received during the year in their policy are met.
Where practicable, paper capacity as employees of the Group and and other comestibles are recycled and all to disclose any interests they may have employees are encouraged to operate in connected or competing organisations.
the business in as environmentallyThese declarations are monitored by the friendly a manner as possible.
Group Company Secretary and reported to the Board at the end of each year.
Ethical Matters The Board has adopted a formal Code All Board members are required, once of Business Conduct, covering all a year, to submit their annual expense the businesses in the Group, which claims to the scrutiny of the entire Board.
consolidated all of the various codes previously applicable to them.
The Code Emma Thomas, provides comprehensive guidelines to Group Company Secretary all employees and members as to the 3rd March 2003 standard of business ethics expected from them as representatives of the A formal Code of Business Conduct provides comprehensive guidelines to all employees and members as to the extremely high ethical standards expected of them as representatives of Nestor.
25 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
