22 Novar annual report 2002 Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility CSR is an essential element of health and safety policies which are specific to their operations, and modern business practice.
The Board of Novar plc recognises its the associated organisation and arrangements necessary to secure responsibilities to develop and promote policies and management the achievement of the Group policy.
systems to enhance the Groups performance in the key impact areas, and to maintain the highest standards of ethical and social behaviour Each sector has formal management systems and programmes in all business dealings.
This report, the first we have prepared, in place in relation to health and safety for their businesses, with describes the progress we have made in 2002 in establishing a designated specialist managers.
External audit of these has resulted framework for the Group and outlines how this is applied across in a number of awards being achieved by Group businesses, both in the Groups businesses.
the UK and in North America.
During 2002 the Group introduced a Code of Conduct, a copy of Environment which is available on the Novar website.
This outlines our conduct The Group is committed to developing and promoting products across a range of social, ethical and environmental areas which and processes that reduce waste and negative environmental impacts.
are core to the effective and efficient functioning of our business.
This includes both the efficient use of materials and energy in A separate code of conduct has been introduced in North America designs and product development, and an awareness of the effect and an Integrity policy operates for Indalex Aluminum Solutions.
on the environment of manufacturing processes.
The Groups These include areas such as anti-trust and trade regulation laws, and environmental policy, a copy of which is available on the Novar employee rights and anti-discrimination legislation.
website, sets out five key principles as a framework for each Novar business to develop and implement policies and procedures which Accountability for managing CSR issues in the business sectors rests are relevant and appropriate to their operations.
with the Sector Chief Executives, who report to the Group Operating Committee and the Board of Directors.
Each of the sectors has its own environmental programmes which are carried through at the local level by managers with specific skills Employees and training.
Most European sites are accredited to the The Directors recognise that the Groups goals and vision can be environmental management standard ISO14001 or EMAS, and achieved only through the efforts of its employees.
The Board programmes are currently under way to achieve further remains committed to ensuring that all Group employees are accreditations during 2003.
Environmental management systems treated with dignity and respect, and that the working environment audits have been carried out in most operations.
All companies is one where each employees contribution is recognised and have sought to optimise recycling of packaging and other materials valued.
All employment-related issues are judged on the basis of and waste where financially and economically viable.
individual ability and performance without regard to race, colour, nationality, culture, ethnic origin, religion, sex, sexual orientation, The Supply Chain age or disability.
Discrimination and harassment are not tolerated, The Group is developing policies to take account of socially and basic human rights are upheld wherever the Company operates.
responsible practices in the supply chain.
Activity so far has focused on the environmental performance of suppliers and their working With some 14,000 employees spread across operations in the UK, practice standards, supported by appropriate audit processes.
Europe, North America, the Middle East and Asia, the Group has Improved co-ordination of logistics has focused on reducing a diverse and multi-cultural workforce.
Novar has policies on transportation, and improving fuel management awareness.
compensation, benefits and ethics which are designed to reflect national differences, for example in compensation philosophies and Community Support and Charitable Donations labour relations.
Wage levels are designed to be competitive in the The Board receives an annual report on charitable payments across local market and are tested using a number of independent sources.
The Group focuses on providing support for organisations which are local to, or linked commercially with, Novars The Company believes in taking prime responsibility for business units.
Community involvement is organised at a local level communications with its employees in order to keep them fully within the sectors.
The Group has for many years supported CRASH, informed on matters which affect them, and to enable them to the UK construction and property industry charity for the homeless identify with the competitiveness and success of their enterprise.
In North America, both Clarke American The Company operates an Inland Revenue approved savingsand Indalex have well-established programmes to support the related share option scheme in the UK, providing employees with United Way.
In 2002, donations to charitable organisations within the the opportunity to own shares in the Company.
Proper consideration is given to applications for employment made by disabled people, and for training and personal and career development as appropriate for disabled employees.
In the event of an employee becoming disabled whilst working for the Company, efforts would be made to continue their employment and suitable arrangements made for retraining as necessary.
Health & Safety The Directors believe that the health, safety and welfare of the Groups employees should be an integral part of the overall business strategy.
The Boards commitment is set out in the Groups Health & Safety Policy Statement, a copy of which is available on the Novar website.
Below Board and Chief Executive level, Sector Chief Executives and business unit managing directors are responsible for developing
