13 Health, safety and environment It is the stated policy of Premier to ensure that the impact of its In 2002, we also continued our development and implementation of activities on the health and safety of its employees will be reduced to safety cases comprising formal safety assessments and risk proles for a level that is as low as reasonably practicable, to maintain the security our operating facilities in Indonesia and Myanmar.
We also adopted of its personnel and assets and to strive to achieve excellence in this process for the concept design of Gajah Baru in Indonesia.
The Company will ensure that its operations Project safety reviews and audits were also carried out in compliance meet statutory requirements and that they are carried out with minimal with our policies and our commitment to continuous risk reduction.
Over and above its legal responsibilities, the Company commits to protect the health, safety and welfare of all its Our management system includes the use of environmental impact employees and of all personnel affected by and involved in its activities.
assessments EIAs for current operations and new business ventures.
In 2002, EIAs were carried out for drilling operations in Benir and Premier is committed to continuous improvement in the management Zirkani in Pakistan and for exploration activities in Jaipur and Cachar of operational risks.
In 2002, the Health, Safety and Environment in India.
function was extended to incorporate the management of security risks, resulting in integrated Health, Safety, Environment and Security Following increased terrorist activity worldwide, security reviews were HSES management.
undertaken for our operations in Albania, Indonesia and Pakistan.
These reviews included threat assessments and led to improvements The Health, Safety, Environmental and Security policies provide the in our management of operational security risks.
In addition, a security basis of the Companys HSES management system, which is applied risk assessment was undertaken in preparation for operations in India.
and communicated throughout our operations.
The management system comprises a hierarchical structure of policies, standards, We are continuously monitoring and reviewing our performance in an guidelines and procedures to ensure that the corporate policies effort to learn and improve.
Development of our electronic accident are cascaded throughout the Companys worldwide activities, that reporting system and training of accident investigators provided a sufficient resources are made available within the organisation to solid foundation for improving the reporting culture and identication achieve effective implementation, and that performance is monitored of root causes and preventative actions.
Accident and near miss and regularly reviewed.
reports were monitored for trends throughout the year enabling early actions to be taken to enhance performance.
We strive for world class standards and 2002 was another year of exceptional health and safety performance.
One of our key Premiers involvement in production operations, project performance measures, also used by others in the industry, is the lost development and pursuance of new business ventures presents time injury frequency LTIF.
In 2002, there were eight lost time injuries many challenges in the management of the associated Health, in over six million man-hours worked throughout our global Safety, Environment and Security risks.
Our commitment to the operations, resulting in an LTIF of 1.29 lost time injuries per million protection of the health, safety and security of our employees, the man-hours worked.
This maintains the significant improvement made security of our assets and excellence in environmental management in 2001 when the LTIF reduced by 48 per cent from that in 2000 and remains paramount.
is an achievement in light of increased hazardous activities undertaken in the year.
Premiers involvement in production operations, project development and pursuance of new business ventures presents many challenges in the management of the associated Health, Safety, Environment and Security risks.
Our commitment to the protection of the health, safety and security of our employees, the security of our assets and excellence in environmental management remains paramount.
