Arriva plc Annual report and accounts 2002 20 Corporate Social Responsibility To explore new ways of improving safety Arriva, in partnership with Cranfield University and the Transport and General Workers Union, has developed an innovative bus driving simulator.
November Arriva held its first parliamentary reception at the European Parliament in Brussels, hosted by Brian Simpson MEP for the North West of England.
Photograph by courtesy of the Audiovisual Library of the European Commission Arriva plc Annual report and accounts 2002 21 The values underpinning the Arriva brand standard.
The system is based around The policy is being expanded to create a are focused on the interests of the Groups comprehensive risk assessments combined more prescriptive, comprehensive and various stakeholders customers, with detailed Group policies.
It will be supported by employees, shareholders, local and national is responsible for its safety performance the capture of a wider range of key government institutions, and the and actions are reviewed regularly by environmental statistics.
Specific policies communities in which Arriva operates.
the Groups central health and safety detailing the monitoring and management team.
of water, fuel and energy use are being Health, Safety and Environment updated for implementation in 2003.
Health, safety and environment issues are Safety reviews have been conducted at all reviewed regularly by the Board.
They are of the Groups mainland European Arriva is focused on improvements to reduce monitored by the Health & Safety businesses to ensure that effective policies environmental impact.
The UK bus fleet is Committee which is chaired by the Groups and processes are in place.
The businesses operating on ultra low sulphur diesel fuel.
Chairman, Gareth Cooper, and composed have clearly demonstrated their All new vehicles are specified with EURO IV of one other non-executive Director, three commitment through the systems in place engines and emission characteristics.
Noise executive Directors, the Company Secretary and the arrangements for good dialogue levels of vehicles are being reduced and new and operational executives with specific with works and worker councils.
white noise reversing alarms are being responsibility for health, safety and introduced to minimise noise disturbance at Working with Cranfield University and environmental compliance in the divisions.
Arriva Trains Northern Meeting quarterly, the committees terms of representatives from the Transport and has ISO 14001 accreditation for its Neville General Workers Union, Arriva funded the reference were defined with advice from Hill train depot.
the environment and risk management development of a bus driving simulator as consultants Arthur D. Little Limited and part of a programme designed to examine Waste management is a key area of ways in which thoughts, feelings and reflect the Boards robust approach to management control.
Waste disposal will governance in this complex and specialist behaviour patterns can contribute to continue to be the responsibility of local accidents.
The results will be used to tailor management with recycling and business area.
selection, assessment and training methods.
reprocessing being the first priority.
Landfill There have been no safety or environmental The simulator replicates a drivers cab and is will continue to be the least acceptable prosecutions relating to the Groups complete with steering wheel and controls option.
activities in the last five years.
Two combined with a six feet high, 180 degree prosecutions, relating to offences by the semi-circular screen onto which the road is Arriva is implementing a more comprehensive reporting process on health, previous owners of businesses acquired by projected.
The trainee is given the same Arriva, have been recorded.
view as they would have in a real bus and safety and environment matters with a view to providing a more detailed insight for its can test their skills on a number of different The Groups health and safety policies scenarios covering congested roads, rural stakeholders.
underline the importance of best practice environments, reacting to everyday for customers and employees.
Safety of People training and development situations and getting an idea of the Over the past five years Arriva has entered a employees and customers is a primary value challenges faced when taking a bus out of the Arriva brand.
The Board recognises number of new markets and new countries.
that it is the responsibility of managers at all The Group has grown significantly and now levels to prevent personal injury, or harm, by The Groups environmental policy is has around 30,000 employees, an increase providing a safe working environment and committed to legal compliance and of some 50 per cent since 1998.
To respond to the need to develop a common set of effective training and supervision.
The policy is reviewed regularly by the Board and is values and ensure comprehensive training An in-house safety management system is the company has been progressively monitored by the Health & Safety operated by the Group, which has legal Committee.
introducing a wide range of training and compliance as a minimum acceptable development initiatives.
These include the November Arriva London and Arriva Yorkshire won awards at the National Bus Industry Awards.
Pictured on the left is Mark Yexley, managing director of Arriva London with Professor David Begg, chairman of the Commission for Integrated Transport.
Arriva plc Annual report and accounts 2002 22 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Arriva London now employs over 3,000 bus drivers, an increase of some 400 since 2001.
Drivers receive hazard awareness and regular refresher training.
November UK Bus launches 400,000 worth of moneysaving bus travel vouchers for households across the UK.
Arriva plc Annual report and accounts 2002 23 development of a customer service National Recognising the changes in the world in Specifically, the Group provides financial Vocational Qualification NVQ in the UK which it operates, which impact on both its and practical support to charities and Bus operations, which has now been rolled customer and employee base, the Group projects that help people with disabilities, out to the Groups international businesses.
has launched a programme focusing on the elderly, the young and the environment.
The NVQ is also being introduced in the UK diversity.
The Arriva approach to diversity is Trains division.
A pilot scheme was Mark Saxton, the Groups Human Resources about acknowledging, understanding and established within Arriva Trains Northern valuing the differences in people, whether Director, chairs the Community Relations last year in West Yorkshire and it is now customers or employees.
committee which has two other executive Directors and four senior managers as being made available across South Yorkshire, Greater Manchester, Humberside The programme aims to gain advantage for members.
The committee meets three times and Lincolnshire.
the Group by creating an environment that a year to review progress and consider maximises the potential of all employees support for new projects.
In the UK, Arriva is licensed to deliver and future employees without anyone Institute of Occupational Safety and Health being disadvantaged.
Partnerships Two new partnerships were launched in IOSH courses Managing Safely and Working Safely.
Over 360 safety training To deliver success, a Diversity Committee 2002 with Age Concern and Changing days were delivered in 2002 and the Group has been established, which reports directly Faces.
Arriva is supporting Age Concerns is planning to develop this area of activity.
to the Board, together with a Best Practice Get Fit for Life campaign, funding exercise Forum with representation from across the classes in Shropshire.
The campaign aims to The roll out of the Groups performance Group.
Arriva is a member of Opportunity help older people keep mobile, improve management process - Working With Now and Race for Opportunity and will be their health and enhance their quality of life Others - continued during 2002.
An playing an increasing role in their activities by providing opportunities to socialise.
additional 50 managers received training during 2003.
The mainland European Changing Faces is a national charity in support of the process.
A working party businesses are identifying similar committed to providing help and support has been established to develop the organisations within their own countries.
for people who have facial disfigurements approach to performance management as well as working for better healthcare and for other levels of managers, supervisory Since 2001 the company has developed a raising public awareness.
Arriva has been and administrative employees.
Employees partnership with Common Purpose.
The supporting intensive workshops for continue to have access to Arrivas organisation helps people in leadership and teenagers in London with the aim of Learning and Development Gateway, which decision-making roles to be more effective helping them face their futures with more in their own organisations, in the provides a wide range of courses via the confidence.
Maria Eagle MP, Minister for Internet.
community and the wider society.
Disabled People, launched the partnership Programmes look at the local issues that in October, at the House of Commons.
Over 200 managers from across the Group impact on communities, such as housing, have taken part in an Executive transport and crime.
Involvement also Arriva supports the work of the Foundation Development Programme EDP which has provides an excellent opportunity to build for Citizenship at Liverpool John Moores been designed around Arrivas brand values.
The Group has gradually University by sponsoring Citizenship The company also operates the Arriva increased the number of employees taking Awards for children and young people Development College for Talent ADC part in Common Purpose programmes.
attending primary and secondary schools in which helps to identify and develop people the Knowsley area.
The awards recognise who can make a significant contribution to Community relations the achievements of youngsters.
Examples Arriva seeks to build sustainable the Groups success.
In 2002 over 40 people include those who have helped with the attended ADCs.
Both initiatives are delivered relationships that are relevant to the Groups care of an ill relative or have overcome a activities.
The aim is to deliver best value for by external partners and have been disability and succeeded at school.
A special designed to develop and enhance the communities it serves whilst reinforcing ceremony is held annually at Liverpool Town management skills and behaviours.
their relationship with the Group.
Hall when Lord David Alton, who chairs the December Arriva Trains Merseyside became the first train company to complete the installation of a train protection and warning system.
Pictured Arrivas Bob Hind left with Tim Clark from Network Rail.
Arriva plc Annual report and accounts 2002 24 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Employees from across the UK have voted Macmillan Cancer Relief as the companys Charity of the Year 2003.
Arrivas operations in Denmark, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain and Sweden operate similar schemes.
December Andrew Jordan, aged 10, became the youngest participant in Arriva Trains Northerns innovative Adopt a Station scheme which involves passengers suggesting improvements and identifying issues at the companys stations.
Arriva plc Annual report and accounts 2002 25 Foundation, presents the awards.
Other in Sunderland have been involved in a speaking ethnic minorities and people on community partners include the Royal mentoring scheme which provides support low incomes.
Arriva is one of the partners National Institute for the Blind, Community for pupils at a local secondary school of the Office of the e-Envoy, which is Foundation and Encams, an environmental Sandhill View.
The project has been very leading the drive to get the UK online.
worthwhile benefiting the pupils, the school early March this year Arriva, along with a and Arrivas employees.
During 2003 similar number of other private, public and Involving employees projects will be developed with employees voluntary organisations, took part in a Every year, Arriva receives many requests for in other parts of the Group including Arriva seminar at 10 Downing Street to review support from charities in the UK.
To focus North West and Arriva Trains Northern.
plans for a major drive, in May and June resources more effectively, it was decided to 2003, to promote the use of the Internet.
involve employees in selecting a Charity of A number of senior managers are Other partners include Age Concern, BBC, the Year.
Employees receive information on supporting the BitC scheme Partners in BT, Dixons Stores Group, the Princes Trust the charities that have contacted the Leadership which links individuals with and Microsoft.
company and then vote for their preference.
headteachers to provide an opportunity for The 2003 charity is Macmillan Cancer Relief.
the teachers to draw on experience from Summary Macmillan works to improve the quality of the business world.
BitC has increased its The Board of Arriva has a clear commitment life of people living with cancer.
It also focus on rural issues and the company is to Corporate Social Responsibility and fully funds specialist nurses and doctors.
The supporting initiatives in the North East and recognises that it is fundamental to the Charity of the Year scheme has been Wales.
Arriva Trains has donated 20,000 success of the Group.
extended to the Groups mainland European over two years to support the North operations who select their own charities or Yorkshire Market Towns project.
initiative is helping to improve the retention and growth of services and business in The Community Relations committee market towns across Yorkshire Pateley recognises the valuable contribution that Bridge, Thirsk, Bentham, Malton, Norton employees in the UK make to their local and Whitby.
As well as providing funding communities through voluntary work.
Arriva Trains is represented on the projects Employees are invited to apply for steering group.
Community Action Awards, and if successful, they receive a certificate and a Along with other business leaders, Arrivas donation for the organisation they support.
Chief Executive, Bob Davies, is a member of For 2002, 43 awards were made, ranging BitCs North East Leadership Team, which from 50 to 500.
The three awards for develops strategy and direction for BitC in 500 went to PHAB - which works for the region.
He is also a member of BitCs people with disabilities, SPACE - a charity National Rural Steering Group.
supporting children with epilepsy, and Marie Curie Cancer Care.
Community Action Online Nation Awards will be introduced in our mainland The Groups UK Bus and Trains divisions are European operations during 2003. supporting the Governments Online Nation campaign.
The campaigns aim is to Business in the Community ensure that by 2005 everyone who wants it The Group is a member of Business in the has access to the Internet.
Currently, some Community BitC and is actively supporting 38 per cent of UK adults have never used a number of the initiatives promoted by the the Internet - 17 million people - and the organisation.
For the last three years campaign is particularly focused on the employees based at the Groups head office elderly, unemployed, disabled, English December The Strategic Rail Authority rated Arriva Trains Merseyside as the best mainland operator for punctuality and reliability.
