EMPLOYEES Top left: Mecca Bingo Top right: Grosvenor Casinos Bottom left: Hard Rock Cafe Bottom right: Deluxe DVD production 20 The Rank Group Plc Employees 2002 continued training and development across all aspects of the While overall responsibility for human resources is maintained at the core restaurant business have focused on Hard Rocks key selling Groups head ofce in London, the diversity of both geography and points: Menu, Merchandise, Music, Memorabilia and Memories.
business activity necessitates that each business has day-to-day responsibility for looking after its own people.
However, a number Deluxe of core themes emerge within each division, reecting the Groups Two of the highlights during 2002 were the acquisitions of Vision philosophy regarding recruitment and selection, diversity, productivity, Entertainment and the Ritek DVD business, which together put training and development and retention.
Some examples can be found Deluxe rmly into the top tier of the entertainment media industry.
by reviewing each divisions activity during 2002.
The smooth integration of both businesses is a testament to the HR team, placing new talent into the Deluxe culture, transitioning Gaming and reorganising functions, and educating and orientating new The need to remain at the forefront of what is becoming an increasingly employees on the divisions training programmes and policies.
competitive gaming environment requires regular and comprehensive training and development for employees on both existing and new Training and employee development remains one of the divisions gaming products.
The divisions ability to both innovate new games and critical success factors.
Development opportunities include the products such as Progressive Stud Poker in its casinos and electronic Leadership Programme, Team Lead Mentoring, Employee Safety, bingo in Mecca Bingo, and then roll them out across the gaming estate and Customer Focus Training.
Steps to further improve internal in a time effective manner is a key factor behind the divisions continued communication were fostered in the shape of more two-way dialogue success.
As a result, a training system that was pioneered within with open forum meetings such as Off the Cuff Roundtable Meetings, Mecca Bingo is now being implemented across Grosvenor Casinos.
benefit Focus Groups, benefit Fairs, All Hands Meetings, and monthly This system ensures that all employees have access to the latest training KPI Key Performance Indicator Meetings.
updates and can undergo training when it suits them and at their own pace.
The result is a consistent delivery of high quality service As a major international leisure business, employing staff that and professionalism to all the divisions gaming customers.
share a similar passion for excellent service, and above all fun, requires careful management and investment.
The Groups success to date Similarly, in RLMS, the divisions amusement machine business, as new demonstrates that its strategy of continuing to invest in its people gaming products have been launched, the service operations provided is one that is paying real dividends and as such can be expected to business customers have focused on the training of front line staff.
To support the new games and associated technology, 24 hour service support has been provided, to ensure that clients are able to offer these Health and safety new products to their customers whatever the time of day or night.
The Group undertakes an annual assessment of the health and safety risks facing its divisions.
Senior management in each division specically Hard Rock considers health and safety issues as part of this exercise.
Actions that The Hard Rock brand is synonymous with great fun, great food and great may be required to improve the control of health and safety risks are music.
This is just as true for the divisions employees as it is for their identied and then actioned.
Despite the difficult trading conditions experienced during 2002, the divisions employees have continued to serve alland whats To ensure that the divisions continue to address health and safety more, do it in true Hard Rock style with a smile on their face!
Hard Rock issues, an external audit of safety management systems across the is able to attract and retain the best employees because Hard Rock Group was undertaken in 2002.
The results of the audit have been is a fun place to be, whether you are there to work or play.
Lets face it, used to direct actions at Group and divisional level to improve there arent many jobs where you can wear blue jeans, tattoos and current practice.
body-piercings, all while listening to great Rock n Roll all day!
But, being a leading  not just from creating a great work The board takes an active role in monitoring safety performance, environment, it also relies on industry-leading training materials, benefit assisted by risk management groups in Europe and in North America offerings and competitive salaries.
responsible for the co-ordination of health and safety standards across the Group.
The activities of these groups are already promoting the The divisions Human Resources and Operations activities have never sharing of good practice and the development of a strong network been closer business partners.
Dubbed The Year of the Product, during of safety professionals across the divisions.
THE GROUP HAS OVER 20,000 EMPLOYEES IN OVER 11 COUNTRIES AND MANAGING THIS KEY RESOURCE IS CRITICAL NOT ONLY TO THE CONTINUED SUCCESS OF EACH OF ITS COMPONENT BUSINESSES, BUT ALSO THAT OF THE GROUP AS A WHOLE The Rank Group Plc 21
