Living the business - Understanding people Anne Engerant, Category Marketing Manager, Air Care I was ashamed of my air fresheners.
I hid them away in cupboards and drawers when friends came round.
Fresh air is nothing to be ashamed of.
6 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2002 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2002 7 Living the business - Understanding people If only air fresheners could smell of not chemicals.
In the a subtle would surely be better than an overpowering smell.
Anne Engerant, Category Marketing Manager, Air Care They didnt look very attractive.
They didnt smell very After many months of work, the R&D team developed attractive.
The previous generation of air fresheners didnt four fragrances that met the target for long-lasting have a lot going for them.
Fitting the ambience creation product positioning, these were Fern and Lily, Vanilla and The attitude of our own people was typical.
Somehow, we Orchids, Mango and Lime and the rather less fruity or didnt want to be caught using one.
Wed furtively bring floral Anti Tobacco.
out the air freshener when no-one was looking then Glass plastic fresh air hide it away.
At the same time, our packaging Our French team looking and people came up with a frosted glass sniffing at the problem resolved to bottle that continuously releases I might use an air develop an air freshener that no-one fragrances through vents in its would be ashamed of.
Clearly, it had plastic dome.
Twisting the dome freshener in the living to be a premium product.
The cap adjusts the amount of fragrance consumer insights pointed them in released.
room, but I store it in the direction of an eye-pleasing, Our team coined the name nose-pleasing combination.
Decosphere for the new product.
better it looked, the more it would Its decorative and spherical.
pre-launch tests, people liked the Intense work on fragrance intensity circular shape and the frosted glass and said The team decided to build on the traditional liquid wick theyd use it all around the house.
They loved segment with a much improved version.
The new product the fragrances.
would need to deliver a high quality scent and allow the Post-launch, the sales figures show that fragrance intensity to be varied.
Ten months later they were Decosphere has the whiff of success.
glad they opted for adjustability - our competitors didnt.
8 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2002 Solid tablets are easy to use but fine fabrics Modern cars are need a liquid crammed with detergent.
So why are car air fresheners made of cardboard?
Its not enough to make a carpet stain disappear.
I need to see it disappear.
A liquid tablet Bath time was the source From Room to Vroom of our inspiration.
Bath pearls melt in Our consumer surveys warm water, releasing revealed an intriguing insight: their gel into the bath, so while advanced technology in could a Woolite pearl melt in the cars speeds ahead, car air washing machine?
We experimented fresheners have been left behind.
For Getting to the bottom of with different plastic films and different many people, their car is an extension of Woolite formulations.
After a few carpet stains their home, so the car seemed a natural setbacks we developed a capsule that place to extend our air freshener wasnt affected by the liquid inside but People feel emotionally stained by a franchise.
Building on the success of quickly dissolved in contact with warm stained carpet.
They need immediate CrystalAir, we developed CrystalAuto.
We called the product relief.
They need to see the stain Launched in France, its now gaining Woolite gel caps.
They need sales across Europe.
An aerosol, it shoots foam to the base of the stain, creating a chemical reaction that lifts the stain out of the carpet.
Not only does the product work, it provides a visual demonstration that it works.
Fernando Alegria Robert Rutledge Global Category Director, Air Care Category Marketing Manager, Garment Care George Zarifi Category Director, Fabric Treatment and Carpet Cleaners Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2002 9
