Corporate social responsibility In 2002 Reckitt Benckiser entered the FTSE4Good index series for Socially Responsible Investment and took part in the first Corporate Responsibility Index of UK Business in the Community.
Reckitt Benckiser has a comprehensive Code of Business Conduct the first consumer product to create a trust range of policies and programmes to Our Code of Business Conduct ensures that to raise funds to support children affected by promote and drive further improvements management and employees across the HIV Aids.
In the UK, major programmes in corporate social responsibility.
These Group have a clear understanding of the include continuing work with Home Start, the are mainly communicated through our principles that are important in conducting leading volunteer network supporting corporate website where they can be our business, and guides all employees as to families, and a new programme with Weston accessed at www.
com the ethical values the Company wants to Spirit for three years to establish a centre for uphold.
These principles are an important disadvantaged young people in Slough.
factor in maintaining and building the Reckitt Benckiser's total community support reputation of Reckitt Benckiser as a worldwide is around $1million excluding responsible and trustworthy business partner, employee contributions.
In the UK, the employer and corporate citizen.
donation to charitable organisations was 320,000.
A system of internal compliance monitoring with the Code occurs as part of the year-end The Community Involvement Policy and the reporting process.
latest report can be found on our website.
The Code is available on our website.
Other Policies Reckitt Benckiser has developed other Environment policies and programmes governing its Reckitt Benckiser is committed to running its activities in other areas of corporate social business in a responsible, environmentally responsibility.
The Company has an Environmental Policy, Product Safety Reckitt Benckiser is Group and site specific Environmental committed to supplying safe products to Management Systems, and public targets for consumers and understanding issues performance improvement.
Reckitt Benckiser involving safety associated with our has recently produced its second products.
The Company monitors product environmental report.
safety issues to ensure compliance with the policy and is actively engaged in a www.
com about During 2002 the Company took part in UK programme to remove ingredients or corporate.
cfm Business in the Environments seventh Index of packaging that raise safety concerns.
Corporate Environmental Engagement and was placed first in its sector, and 29th out of Health & Safety Reckitt Benckiser aims to the 85 FTSE 100 companies taking part.
We maintain a safe workplace in all locations.
also participated in the Carbon Disclosure The Company has a system of internal Project, organised by 35 institutional investors reporting and auditing of Health & Safety representing assets in excess of US$4.5 trillion.
performance to ensure compliance with the The Company has a global Environmental policy and has a global Health and Safety Director, reporting to the Chief Executive Officer.
Director reporting to the Chief Executive Officer.
Details can be accessed through the corporate website.
Animal Testing Reckitt Benckiser will not use animal testing on any of its products or Community Involvement raw materials unless indicated by national or Reckitt Benckiser recognises its responsibility international regulatory authorities.
We to the communities in which it operates and actively support the development, validation, seeks to support and enrich them through its use and acceptance of alternative methods Community Programmes.
The Company has that reduce, refine or replace the use of a Community Involvement Policy governing Environmental Report 2002 animals in product safety evaluation.
its activities in these areas and produces periodic community involvement reports for The detailed policies are available through the internal communication, that are also made corporate website at www.
In 2002, major projects included the launch of the Dettol Trust for Aids in South Africa, Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2002 27
