Operational review continued Rio Tinto Exploration seeks to discover or resource of 120 million tonnes of contained Exploration identify mineral resources that will contribute ilmenite.
The deposits occur near to the to the growth of the Rio Tinto Group.
The coast, are amenable to conventional dredging group discovery of new resources is essential to methods and have a low slimes content.
replace deposits as they are mined and to Diamond exploration continued in help meet the increasing global demand for Canada, Southern Africa, West Africa, Brazil minerals and metals.
New diamond bearing kimberlite The Exploration group is opportunistic in pipes were discovered in a number of approach and its resources are deployed on locations and follow up test work is planned projects that show the best chance of to gauge economic potential.
delivering a world class deposit to Rio Tinto.
The Exploration group was active in the Mineral exploration is a high risk activity.
search for industrial mineral deposits in a Rio Tintos statistics show that an average of number of parts of the world including North only one in 350 mineral prospects that are and South America, Europe and Turkey.
drill tested result in a mine for the Group.
The Exploration group continued to Rio Tinto believes in having a critical mass of support brownfield work at a number of projects, selected through a rigorous process Rio Tinto operations.
Exploration of the sub of prioritisation.
surface extensions of the Argyle diamond The Exploration group is organised into deposit continued.
In the US and Argentina, four geographically based teams and a fifth active programmes were conducted in the team that looks for industrial minerals on a orbit of the Boron and Tincalayu mines.
Additionally, a small focused Indonesia, exploration in and around the project generation team covers the world for Grasberg mine led to the addition of further new opportunities.
At the end of 2002, Rio Tinto was Safety performance continued to exploring in 30 countries for a broad range of improve at all exploration operations in 2002, commodities including copper, diamonds, with 15 lost time injuries and medical nickel, industrial minerals, gold, bauxite, iron treatment cases reported compared with 22 ore and coal.
The severity of lost time injuries also geologists and geophysicists around the showed a significant decline.
There were no world and has a total staff of 681 people.
significant environmental or community David Klingner, head of Exploration, is incidents during 2002. based in London.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2002 operating performance 2002 compared with 2001 Exploration in 2002 focused on advancing Cash expenditure on exploration in 2002 was the most promising targets across the US$124 million and the pre-tax charge to spectrum of grassroots, generative, drill test earnings was US$130 million, similar to the stage, and near mine programmes.
Good corresponding figures for 2001. results were obtained from a number of locations.
2001 compared with 2000 In the US, drilling at the Resolution Cash expenditure on exploration in 2001 was project in Arizona continued to delineate US$132 million and the pre-tax charge to strong copper and molybdenum porphyry earnings was US$130 million.
The decline on style mineralisation at depth adjacent to the 2000 figures mainly reflected restructuring of historical Magma mine.
activity to focus on a smaller number of At Marcona in Peru, significant oxide higher quality programmes.
and sulphide copper ore was discovered in close proximity to the Shougang Hierro iron ore mine.
A sizeable body of gold mineralisation was encountered at Dashkasan, near Hamadan in Iran.
Investigations including metallurgical test work continue.
Extensions to the previously discovered gold mineralisation at pler in Turkey were intersected by drilling and studies are underway on various engineering aspects to determine economic viability.
The potential of the high grade haematite resources at Simandou in Guinea were confirmed at more than one billion tonnes.
A convention was signed with the Government of Guinea which covers the conditions attached to the future possible development of the deposit.
Closely spaced drilling was undertaken at the La Sampala nickel laterite resource in Indonesia to test continuity and confirm grade.
In Mozambique, substantial deposits of titanium bearing heavy mineral sands were discovered.
Results suggest a potential 46 Rio Tinto 2002 Annual report and financial statements OPERATIONAL REVIEW The Technology group provides technical requirements in crushing and grinding.
New Technology assistance to Rio Tintos product groups and opportunities are being explored in areas their businesses, supports corporate policy such as hydrogen production and storage, group development, and advises executive and reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
A key focus is to identify and In November, the Rio Tinto Sustainable implement best practices to improve Minerals Industry Foundation was launched performance, maximise efficiency and add as an initiative with the Australian value across Rio Tinto.
Government to improve sustainable practices Technology staff include experienced in the industry.
professionals covering all the main industry related disciplines while the Office of Technical Evaluation and Project Rio Tintos Chief Technologist manages the Management Groups involvement in external and Technical Evaluation provided independent collaborative research.
review of all major investment proposals With the increased focus on sustainable considered by the Group.
The unit also development, and the close linkages conducts post investment reviews which between health, safety, environment HSE, focus on identifying the key learnings and and community issues and communications, experiences from investments for the benefit the corporate staff in these areas now report of both existing and future projects.
to the head of Communication and The Project Management unit continued Sustainable Development, effective January to support major project teams across 2003.
The transfer of the HSE group, Rio Tinto, both for projects in execution and involving 24 staff, leaves the total staff in the those still in the feasibility stage.
Technology group virtually unchanged from Updated comprehensive guidelines for 2001, at some 260, due to increases in other project development were issued early in the areas, particularly Asset Utilisation.
This was followed by the introduction of John OReilly, head of Technology, is more formalised and rigorous procedures based in London.
regarding risk assessment and management, with a particular emphasis on their application 2002 operating performance to major projects.
Technical Services Technical Services continued to provide high Asset Utilisation level support to the operating businesses, Asset Utilisation was set up in 2000 with the including important contributions at non objective of guiding and assisting Group managed operations.
Activity over the year businesses to achieve significant was at record levels and a number of Group improvement in the performance of their wide initiatives were launched including: assets, with an initial focus on improved excellence in water management, targeted at maintenance strategies.
The success of the reducing unit water consumption: energy pilot programmes led to a major expansion of efficiency: haul road design, construction and activity in 2002.
Current areas of focus maintenance: and a review of Group include process control, operational procedures and practice on closure planning readiness, warranty management, and the and implementation.
formulation and implementation of Technical Services has a strong maintenance standards and audits.
environmental unit that also manages the majority of the reviews and audits of Group Health, Safety and Environment HSE businesses on behalf of HSE, as required by The HSE unit continued to provide corporate corporate policy.
policy guidance and support the ongoing Current development projects are improvement of standards and performance targeted at adding value in the short term by across the Group.
Further information on these delivering innovative solutions and include and social aspects is provided on page 48. mineralogical techniques to aid exploration effectiveness and process selection.
In Financial performance addition, a comprehensive programme of The charge for the Technology group against studies links with a suite of external research earnings was US$17 million compared with programmes.
Rio Tinto continues to be a US$14 million in both 2001 and 2000. major contributor to the collaborative industry programme, the International Network for Acid Prevention INAP which is now in its fifth year.
Office of the Chief Technologist The Office of the Chief Technologist is responsible for the identification and the transfer of technology based opportunities for the Group.
The external research portfolio covers a broad range of industry related initiatives.
Projects continue from 2001 while new ones launched in 2002 include a range of metallurgical initiatives: in-situ barrier technology, focussing on the use of precipitation inhibitors: and the potential for a step change reduction in the energy Rio Tinto 2002 Annual report and financial statements 47 OPERATIONAL REVIEW Operational review continued Taking long term responsibility requirements: biennial safety audits against Society and Due to the long term nature of Rio Tintos Rio Tinto standards: annual risk engineering mining assets, it is crucial to our business audits for insurers: risk reviews for specific environment that we practice sound social and concerns, such as cyanide management and Group employees environmental responsibility.
Our goal is to smelter operations: procedures and systems average for year maximise the overall long term return to our for reporting critical and significant issues and shareholders by operating responsibly and incidents: and, completion of annual sustainably in areas of proven expertise questionnaires by all Group business leaders where the Group has competitive advantage.
covering financial, social, health and safety Our approach to achieving this is through and environment matters.
implementation of the policies described in In addition, assurance activities The way we work, our statement of business undertaken by Group businesses at a Joint ventures practice, at all levels of the business.
minimum include health, safety and and associates During 2002, we were involved in a environment audits, including regulatory range of sustainable development initiatives compliance: social audits: and biennial Subsidiaries as part of our policy to ensure that Rio Tinto tailings facility inspections by independent and joint arrangements businesses, operations and products experts.
00 01 02 contribute to the global transition to sustainable development.
Policies, procedures and verification Principal employee locations 2002 We also commenced a review and Implementation of the policies in The way we update of The way we work to reflect current work is discussed in the following sections.
best practice and ensure procedures meet Known risks arising from social and changed requirements.
environmental HSE matters and their Rio Tinto has adopted the Association of management in Group businesses are British Insurers 2001 disclosure guidelines on described in the relevant Group operations social responsibility in preparing this report.
However, details of the Groups overall and its individual businesses social and Health, safety and the environment environmental performance continue to be Building from a foundation of compliance with Australia New Zealand 10,000 published on the Rio Tinto web site: applicable HSE laws, regulations and http: www.
com commitments, we seek to improve our North America 10,000 performance through target setting, Board responsibilities implementation of management systems and Africa 6,000 The directors of Rio Tinto, and of standards and use of best available Other 10,000 Group companies, are responsible for practices.
monitoring financial, legal, human resources, Our goal is zero injuries in the social, health, safety and environmental risks workplace and the elimination of occupational and performance.
In 2002, we regret to report that in these areas involves checking, reviewing there were six deaths at operations we and reporting each businesses manage: all were Group employees and none implementation of Group policies, their were contractors.
There were 487 lost time compliance with regulations and voluntary incidents during the year, a 33 per cent commitments, and the effectiveness of decrease from 2001.
In 2002 there were management and control systems, while also 120 new cases 2001: 106 of occupational providing mechanisms for improvement.
As discussed in the section on Fines for infringement of occupational health Corporate governance on pages 60 and 61, and safety regulations involved 12 operations the directors meet regularly, have a formal and totalled US$80,000 2001: 15 operations schedule of matters specifically reserved for and US$50,000.
their decision, have access to information, The environmental aspects of mining advice and services of both company relate to stewardship of the resources we use secretaries and independent professional and of our products.
We seek to manage our advice at the Companies expense.
Induction impacts through the implementation of of new directors includes coverage of environmental management systems.
target for 2002 was for all managed The executives annual cash bonus plan operations to have implemented ISO 14001 incorporates stretching targets for personal, or an equivalent environmental management financial and safety performance.
We did not meet this target but Environmental parameters are also being 72 per cent of operations have implemented, introduced.
and all others are implementing, an The boards Committee on social and environmental management system.
environmental accountability reviews the Full compliance is expected in 2003. effectiveness of policies and procedures.
Its Standards for the management of the five, non executive director members meet HSE aspects of our business are either in three times annually with the chairman, chief place or are being developed.
In addition, executive and heads of Technology, Health, targets have been set to drive HSE Safety and Environment and Communication performance improvement.
Fines for infringement of environmental Reports for the Committee summarise regulations involved two operations and significant matters identified through totalled US$2,000 2001: 11 operations and Rio Tintos assurance activities.
While this is a significant four yearly reviews of each business to decrease from previous years, resolution of a assess the ability to meet evolving number of infringements is still pending.
48 Rio Tinto 2002 Annual report and financial statements OPERATIONAL REVIEW 28,292 6,107 34,399 30,023 6,493 36,516 29,170 6,623 35,793 Two environmental incidents reported in management and decision making processes.
2002 were classified by Rio Tinto as critical.
Both occurred at Energy Resources of Employees Australia in February.
Neither was considered Rio Tintos objective is to develop and by the authorities to have any detrimental maintain systems and processes that facilitate impact on the surrounding environment.
attracting, retaining and motivating employees However, Rio Tinto regards these incidents at all levels by providing a challenging work as critical due to the concern raised within environment with opportunities for promotion the local community.
ERA has committed to and personal development: offering highly implementing an environmental management competitive levels of remuneration for superior system achieving ISO 14001 standards by performance: and maintaining a reputation as mid 2003. a highly responsible corporate citizen and employer.
Communities In 2002, Group companies employed Wherever the Group operates, good relations 29,000 people 30,000 in 2001 and together with our neighbours are fundamental to long with Rio Tintos proportionate share of those term success.
Knowing that each local employed by joint ventures and associates, community is different, our policy requires the total was 36,000.
Australia and New that every operation strives to understand Zealand 10,000, North America 10,000 and interact constructively with its local and Africa 6,000 remained the principal communities and to assist their development locations.
in ways which apply the principles of mutual Wages and salaries paid in 2002 totalled respect, active partnership and long term US$1.3 billion, five per cent more than in commitment.
Retirement payments and benefits to Now that all our businesses produce dependants are provided in accordance with their own social and environment reports for local conditions and good practice.
The total local communities, we are increasing pension and other benefits paid in 2002 was community involvement in these reports.
This US$211 million 2001: US$208 million.
provides an opportunity for engagement with the community on their views of programmes Business integrity and political sponsored by our operations.
involvement In 2002, we again distinguished between We conduct Rio Tintos business with contributions that are charitable gifts, integrity, honesty and fairness at all times, community involvement, commercial building from a foundation of compliance with initiatives and management costs.
Based on the relevant laws and regulations wherever this approach the contributions for 2002, we operate.
which relate to managed businesses, totalled We avoid making facilitation payments US$48 million 2001: US$44 million.
Of this, anywhere in the world.
Bribery in any form is US$12 million were direct payments made prohibited.
Gifts and entertainment are only under legislation or an agreement with a local offered or accepted for conventional social community.
and business purposes and then only at a level appropriate to the circumstances.
Human rights A business integrity guidance addressing Rio Tinto supports the UN Secretary issues of bribery, corruption and political Generals Global Compact, the US UK involvement is being finalised.
This also Voluntary Principles on Security and Human covers issues relating to compliance and Rghts and the Global Sullivan Principles.
implementation: gifts and entertainment: the Our human rights policy states that while use of agents and intermediaries: and we look for opportunities to support positive facilitation payments.
efforts to promote broader understanding of international human rights values, especially Verification and assurance where they assist local communities, we have Our external assurance process in 2002 no mandate to intervene in areas which are included an investigation by Environmental inconsistent with our business role.
Resources Management, environmental Our Human rights guidance for consultants, of the extent to which our managers is designed to assist managers in policies and programmes are reflected by the implementing our policy in complex local activities at our businesses and in our Social situations.
The guidance covers four areas: and environment review.
Work also continued communities, employees, security and on our data quality standard and our difficult issues, including different ways to environmental performance data were express concern or the question of externally verified by ICF Consulting.
There are results of both these exercises are available in procedures and a checklist of questions to our Social and environment review.
We continue to encourage Group businesses to liaise directly with local Access to land communities regarding the content of their Rio Tintos policy is to ensure that local social and environmental reports.
the economic, environmental and social factors of our current and potential future activities are thoroughly evaluated.
In 2002, work continued on our biodiversity strategy which aims to ensure that biodiversity is integrated into all of our Rio Tinto 2002 Annual report and financial statements 49 OPERATIONAL REVIEW
