A responsible company RMC has a long history of managing The introduction to the principles and values environmental, health and safety and personally endorsed by the Chairman and community issues.
We are committed to Group Chief Executive sets out our view behaving responsibly and ethically in the way of our obligations to society: that we treat our people and our relationship with the broader community.
RMCs reputation and business success depend not only on the quality of our On the following pages we show our products, the services we provide to performance in managing our environmental, customers and our financial performance, and health and safety responsibilities and our but also on the way we meet our health community activities.
We intend to publish a and safety, environmental and social review of our social activities shortly.
include a road map of how we intend to manage and communicate on issues of We recognise that society today demands corporate social responsibility.
more and more of business in all these areas and companies that fail to meet these higher International education programmes RMC is actively involved in education Business Principles and Values expectations may find that their licence to programmes with local schools around In 2002 RMC Group developed a statement operate comes under threat.
setting out its business principles and values not only understand this but are committed for the first time see below.
We regard to behaving responsibly and ethically and responsible corporate behaviour as an integral responding sensitively to the concerns of part of long-term success.
Our business all our customers, employees, neighbours, depends on maintaining good and positive suppliers and shareholders.
relations with a whole range of stakeholders: customers, employees, suppliers, the local The RMC Group recognises that its licence communities in which we operate, to operate depends on its ability to run its shareholders, governments, regulators, businesses in a sustainable manner.
This is and multinational interest groups.
why we take a proactive approach to the balanced management of economic, environmental, and social issues.
Business Principles and Values RMCs goals We are committed to providing our customers We are committed to equality of opportunity Above all, we want to be a Group that with the products and services that reflect and treatment and strive to provide rewarding customers want to buy from, investors want their different needs.
We believe that close careers for all our people.
We aim to to invest in and people want to work for.
customer relationships are essential to encourage and help employees to develop achieving this aim.
their skills and progress their careers in order Our goal is to be among the leaders in the to support and promote the Groups supply of building materials to the global Shareholders performance.
We are committed to the preservation and enhancement over time of the value of our Suppliers We want to be recognised for the way we are shareholders stakes in RMC.
We seek to develop mutually beneficial developing our businesses to meet customer relations with our suppliers and to source needs, for managing change, for the way we We recognise the importance of safeguarding high quality goods and services at competitive are embracing technology, for our the Groups assets, which are owned by our prices from them.
performance in the environment and our shareholders, and of communicating our management of our social responsibilities.
business policies, achievements and prospects The community honestly and openly.
We strive to be a good neighbour wherever RMCs values we operate and work to foster a climate of Customers Employees trust, understanding and partnership between We aim to develop and maintain long term We value our dynamic, global team of people the Group and local communities, including relationships with our customers by providing and recognise that without their diverse being sensitive to social needs.
high quality products and services at talents and commitment it would not be competitive prices.
possible to achieve our goals.
RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2002 20
