Environment A sustainable commitment The RMC Group recognises that its licence to operate depends on its ability to run its businesses in a sustainable manner.
Global concerns, such as climate change and biodiversity, must be proactively managed alongside local, day-to-day matters like legal compliance.
We have a good environmental record: however, there is always scope for improvement.
Stuart Walker, Group Chief Executive A core part of our business consists of extracting raw materials.
We deal with major environmental issues daily and have many years experience in environmental management.
For example, we have been involved with quarry remediation for over 20 years.
We have embraced the concept of sustainable development, ensuring we meet our needs Orange Grove, Arizona, USA RMC subsidiary Tuscon Ready Mix reached the milestone of recycling one million gallons of water per day at its Orange today without jeopardising the ability of future Grove site in Arizona.
Some 65% of the water is returned to the process and 20% is used for dust control.
The remainder generations to meet theirs, and intend to is lost to evaporation and seepage.
apply it to all aspects of our business.
The sustainable use of natural resources to provide the building materials needed globally to operations with the potential for significant Key issues promote economic and human development environmental impact.
Following opinion research conducted during is central to our approach.
1999, we have established that our key At our smaller operations, for example ready environmental issues to be addressed at Our policy mixed concrete plants, we already operate global level are biodiversity and climate The Group Environment Policy provides a environmental management systems change.
We recognised that these are both framework of guiding principles for all our commensurate with their size and associated areas where cumulative local impacts can companies and employees around the world.
have global significance and consequently A full version of the Group policy can be merit a global response.
viewed in the environment section of the To date, over 75% of our cement plants are Groups corporate website at ISO and or EMAS accredited, including all of Biodiversity www.
Further progress is We shall strive to conserve and create expected during 2003. habitats that support a diversity of plants How we manage environmental issues and wildlife before, during, and after our Management structure Individual RMC companies have considerable operations, in partnership with others.
delegated responsibility to manage their own RMC Group Environment Policy Board Environment Committee environmental risks and opportunities.
Our policy is to allow each business to adopt responsible for environmental policy and strategy In 2002, we agreed a ground-breaking environmental management systems that partnership with BirdLife International, the reflect both its own local impacts and the global conservation organisation see page Group Environment Strategy expectations of interested parties.
At the 24, whereby we will work together on shared Implementation Team same time, it is vital that companies operate priorities, exchanging skills, achievements and responsible for implementing strategy, reviewing according to the consistent Group-wide policies, global standards and guidelines information.
We regard partnerships of this environmental policy and strategy determined kind as essential to sharing expertise and by the Board.
developing mutually beneficial strategies for Group Environment Council environmental improvement.
Quarries and composed of senior environmental managers Across the Group, a number of RMCs sites sand and gravel pits are high-impact, visible from across the business and businesses are working towards ISO sites which have a clear effect on the local 14001 and or the European EMAS Ecolandscape and ecological systems.
With our Management and Audit Scheme Individual business extensive expertise in quarry remediation we environmental managers accreditation.
Our priority is to introduce have developed a positive approach that responsible for day-to-day systems, in line with ISO 14001 and or EMAS, builds remediation into long-term planning environmental management at the large-scale aggregates and cement before any form of extraction has begun.
Annual Report and Accounts 2002 RMC Group 23 A responsible company continued New concrete plant in Paris, France New habitat creation, Spain The ability to recycle 100% of the water used at Bton fide Frances Paris-Ivry concrete plant was an Award-winning restoration at Soto Pajares near Madrid offers an important important criteria in its design and reconstruction.
The new plant officially opened in September 2002, habitat for aquatic birds.
The quarry is among the locations annually replacing one that dated from the 1950s.
This helps us to protect habitats while working participating in the areas of: climate protection: Partnership in action: RMC and BirdLife parts of the site completing the process communications: fuels and materials: health International when the site has been worked out.
For and safety: and emissions reduction.
BirdLife International is a global partnership example, in Great Britain at Bush Farm in of non-governmental conservation Essex, we have been engaged in the Most notably, by the end of 2002, the organisations whose mission is to conserve remediation of the site for over 20 years.
Group had fully implemented the Cement birds, their habitats and global biodiversity, During 2002 we gained recognition across Sustainability Initiative CO Inventory Protocol working with people towards sustainability 2 Europe for quarry remediation when our at all its cement plants around the world.
in the use of natural resources.
BirdLife French subsidiary, Morillon Corvol, won the During the second half of the year, an International is present in 103 countries top award in the leisure category of the independent consultancy reviewed the data and territories worldwide.
While the European Aggregates Association UEPG for for each of our plants between the years largest partner is the UKs Royal Society restoration work at its former Damville Quarry 1990 and 2000 and pronounced itself for the Protection of Birds, there are over in Normandy.
satisfied with the systems and data available.
Some further work is required in order that Land Reinstatement Provisions m this data may be fully verifiable by external We hope to work with BirdLife International at 31 December parties.
This work is due to be completed in a range of ways.
At a global level we during 2003. hope to harness the knowledge of the 2002 67 organisation in order to help us to develop Legal compliance and implement a biodiversity strategy for 2001 75 Although our record is generally good, RMC Group.
At a national level we hope 2000 83 and most breaches of local environmental that partnerships will develop between standards are minor, we did encounter some the local RMC company and the national 1999 86 infringements during 2002.
Based on our constituent of BirdLife International, annual reporting system, six businesses enabling our performance to go beyond 1998 74 reported fines during the year.
As such legal compliance to achieve biodiversity 64 incidents demonstrate, we recognise that conservation.
1997 there is always scope for improvement.
Climate change Dr Michael Rands, Director and Chief We shall strive to increase the efficient use Plans for 2003 Executive of BirdLife International: of energy and reduce gases associated with We will continue to progress efforts with BirdLife International welcomes this climate change.
respect to our stated global priorities of opportunity to work with RMC.
It provides RMC Group Environment Policy biodiversity and climate change.
We will a practical and tangible way for various also continue with the roll-out of our energy BirdLife Partner organisations to collaborate RMC is one of the key players in the Cement efficiency programme, initiated in 2002 for with RMC companies to conserve and Sustainability Initiative CSI, a programme our aggregates operations, in order to build restore particular important wetland and developed by the leaders of ten global cement on the improved efficiencies and cost savings other bird habitats at local level.
In companies in conjunction with the World identified in previous years.
addition, it enables BirdLife to engage at Business Council for Sustainable Development the international level with a group of WBCSD to help the industry to address the During 2003 we will begin a rolling companies under the RMC umbrella challenge of sustainable development.
As a programme of internal cross-border committed to improving their leading member of the CSI, RMC is actively environmental audits.
environmental performance and achieving ecologically sustainable development.
RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2002 24 Communities Begues Quarry, Spain Youngsters living near the Begues Quarry in Spain were given an opportunity to learn more about its use through an open day organised by operator Readymix Asland SA A colourful presentation was used by a senior technician to explain the running of the quarry to the 10 to 12 year-olds from the Begues Espeleo Club, a local youth group.
La Mle Quarry, France In April, a group of children from a local school visited La Mle Quarry near Aix-en-Provence in the south of France.
RMC and its employees take an active part in Community engagement Many operating companies are actively supporting local charities, with financial and RMC sites aim to be an integral part of their involved in education programmes in their volunteer support.
Our aim is to participate local communities.
In the USA, for example, actively to help to improve the quality of life around the world have varying priorities and operating subsidiaries in Texas, California wherever we operate.
expectations, a diversity of approach can be and Florida have entered into formal business more appropriate for local engagement than partnerships with local schools.
In France, Charitable donations a one size fits all attitude.
As a result, 1,500 pupils from secondary schools near The total recorded donations for charitable national and local management teams hold Orlans visited our quarries in Sandillon and and educational purposes in the United the responsibility for creating the atmosphere Baccon as part of their natural science and Kingdom in 2002 totalled 215,000 of trust, understanding and partnership with geology teaching.
RMC also continues its 2001: 125,163. local communities.
ongoing partnership with Florida International University to support the study of a 1,200- acre wetland property, previously donated to the university by RMC.
Annual Report and Accounts 2002 RMC Group 25
