Health and safety Health and safety our record Standard setting At RMC we attach an absolute priority to Specialists in health and safety from around the health and safety.
Recognising that we cannot Group meet on a regular basis in the Group afford to be complacent in what is inherently health and safety forum, which is chaired by a hazardous industry, we strive continually to our International Human Resources Director, minimise risks and improve our health and Julius Stephens.
safety standards around the Group.
We do so through a combination of management The forum holds responsibility for developing control systems, standard setting, information standards to be adhered to by the Groups exchange, training, and internal audit.
Our operations in specific areas of health and safety strategy is underpinned by an emphasis on as well as identifying any areas of concern.
practical measures supported by maximum The forum has established standards covering involvement on the part of employees.
five areas: Risk assessment ERIC-P Employees from UK company Reservoir Aggregates During 2002 we continued to progress Machinery guarding and isolation Ltd, with the Principal Inspector of the Health and measures aimed at further embedding health Traffic routes Safety Executive, at the launch of a poster campaign to promote hazard Elimination, Reduction, Isolation and safety management practices around Personal protective equipment and Control and Protection ERIC-P part of the the Group.
Health and safety support arrangements 2002 UK Health and Safety Improvement Plan.
Our policies and management The work of the Group health and safety Our health and safety policy and management The Board Health and Safety Committee holds forum is overseen by the Board Health and systems place the Group Board at the heart of responsibility for implementation of the Group Safety Committee.
the process: health and safety policy.
The Group policy is supported by a Code of Practice, which offers Accident statistics The Board of RMC Group is committed to supplementary guidance for management We adopt a rigorous approach towards the the achievement and maintenance of high teams in operating companies.
Health and collection of statistical data at Group level.
standards of health and safety in all its safety is the first item for discussion at all We have developed a computer-based accident countries of operation.
The Groups health Board and executive meetings, a stipulation statistic reporting system covering all our countries and safety policy is based on the fundamental that is strictly observed at all management of operation.
These statistics are reviewed by belief that all work-related injuries and meetings throughout the Group.
the Group Board on a monthly basis.
Ethical conduct businesses, with the overall aim of creating in which we operate.
Breaches of the law It is our policy to deal with all our customers, within the Group an ethos in which all are not justified by the pursuit of profit or shareholders, employees, suppliers and work-related injuries and illnesses arising from the practices of competitors or others in neighbours fairly, openly, responsibly and our operations, whether major or minor and the market and are subject to the Groups with integrity.
whether to employees, contractors or members disciplinary procedures.
of the public are regarded as being preventable.
The environment Risk management The extraction, processing and conversion of Technology We are aware of the importance of sound raw materials into finished products is a major We understand the importance of capitalising risk management in safeguarding and component of our operations.
This places a on the opportunities presented by new enhancing the short-term and long-term particular responsibility on us to ensure that, technologies.
We are using new technology value we provide to our shareholders.
Risks wherever we operate, this work is carried out to ensure that day-to-day business activities of all kinds present the Group with both in an  manner and in become more efficient and more effective, threats and opportunities.
We are committed a way that is consistent with the goal of thereby improving the quality of the to identifying those risks, reducing the threats sustainable development.
workplace and saving the Group and its and taking advantage of the business customers both time and money.
Health and safety Maintaining high standards of health and The law safety in all our operations continues to be We demand the highest standards in carrying a high priority for our employees worldwide.
As such, all In all our operations, we seek to reduce to employees must uphold not just the letter a minimum the risks that are inherent in our but also the spirit of the law in all countries Annual Report and Accounts 2002 RMC Group 21 A responsible company continued Tragically, in Slovenia and Australia, two The audit process includes: employees were fatally injured in accidents at Site visits their workplaces during the year.
We deeply Interviews with Directors and senior regret both of these deaths and our efforts management remain focused on working towards achieving Review of safety management procedures a zero accident rate in future years.
Confirmation of senior level responsibility for health and safety Audit and compliance Development of an action plan Sharing of experience and information Subsequent follow-up visit where required exchange between Group operating companies is an essential part of our National improvement plans programme of continuous improvement.
Each company submits a national health and We employ a system of regular audit and safety improvement plan on an annual basis.
inspection thereby deploying our internal The plan will include particular Group expertise to best effect.
initiatives, but also areas of local and national relevance as required to reduce accident An internal audit programme of health and incidence rates.
RoSPA sponsorship safety management takes place on a threeIn September 2002, Richard Claydon, RMCs year cycle, which may involve several of the Training UK Health and Safety Manager, confirmed the Groups renewed sponsorship of the RoSPA Groups operating companies being audited Health and safety forms part of all company Occupational Health and Safety Awards scheme.
The audits are carried out induction programmes and is regularly by health and safety specialists drawn from refreshed according to the job requirements.
Health and safety audits cover training records Case-study and implementation.
As a sign of its commitment to improving Case-study standards within the industry, RMC has RMC is highlighting the importance of We are currently exploring different been proud to sponsor the RoSPA Royal safe driving with the production in 2002 opportunities for developing health and safety Society for the Prevention of Accidents of a new safety video being issued to all training across the Group.
Occupational Health and Safety Awards operating companies.
Recognising that the scheme compelling message from Cynthia Barlow, encourages improved performance within Cumulative lost-time accident whose daughter Alexandra tragically died frequency rate per 200,000 business, RMC has been pleased to note employee man hours in 2000 as a result of injuries received the increased number of awards being when an RMC truck was in collision with 2002 achieved by companies from the her bicycle while the driver was making construction industry.
Over 20 RMC 853 accidents 2.64 a left turn.
subsidiaries received RoSPA health and safety awards during 2002.
2001 Cynthia Barlows involvement followed a plea she made at the 2002 RMC Group 1,091 accidents 3.34 Annual General Meeting, asking the Group to do whatever it could to improve safety in this area.
While we have continued to make improvements since the incident, this new video forms part of our efforts to raise awareness of this issue.
The video focuses on vehicles making turns and other driver visibility issues, and demonstrates different driving environments and road conditions.
The video, which has been endorsed by the Driving Standards Agency in the UK, will be used as a training tool throughout the Group and for external industry use.
RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2002 22
