3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 13 3 2003 18:23 Page INS10 Flying start for a 30-year partners Norfolk & Norwich University Hospital The new Norfolk & Norwich University Hospital was completed 20 weeks replacing one that was originally built in 1771, that may not seem so muc key benefits that PFIs can achieve.
he 229m first phase was Englands hospital was designed in partnership with the largest PFI hospital project a 953-bed Trust but built by Octagon Healthcare a special T complex begun in January 1998 and purpose company uniting Serco, 3i, Barclays, completed within budget in summer 2001.
With Innisfree Partners and Laing.
It was financed by its 2 3,500 rooms and over 100,000m of floor space, five shareholders and a consortium of 18 banks.
it replaced two older hospitals on a single 63-acre Octagon has now begun a 30-year partnership greenfield site.
The landscaped grounds include with the Trust to provide non-clinical services 2,300 parking spaces and 65,000 trees and shrubs.
including building and ground maintenance, The aim was to let the Norfolk & Norwich catering, car park management, portering, IT, University Hospital NHS Trust concentrate on its security, cleaning, laundry, waste disposal and core activity of delivering healthcare.
Were providing all these services Crucially for a pioneering PFI, the JSCSC has been a widely recognised success.
It has delivered the expected benefits on time and on budget.
After due scrutiny, the National Audit Office declared it a textbook example of how a PFI should work.
And our operating contract team have maintained a culture of success: for example, they won full certification to the ISO 9000 quality management standard in just seven months five months ahead of the contractual requirement.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 13 3 2003 18:23 Page INS11 ership eks ahead of schedule.
When youre much, but speedy delivery is one of the under a contract to Octagon, currently valued wards with 144 beds has been completed at 12m a year.
And the Trust has achieved not only the highest Patient Environmental Talking to the Financial Times Anna Dugdale, Action Team rating but also teaching hospital the Trusts Director of Resources, described the status.
So the complex is now the Norfolk & working relationship with Serco as excellent.
"Norwich University Hospital and an object ""Were open and honest about our business lesson in healthcare PFIs."
needs and theyre open and honest about theirs.
We try to meet halfway across the table.
The transfer to the new building took just seven weeks.
A second phase adding two 3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 13 3 2003 18:23 Page INS12 crucially for a pioneering PFI, the College is a textbook PFI JSCSC has been a widely recognised say auditors success.
usiness with a single vision, strategy and values.
But it consists of over 600 separate a contracts each operated with a high degree of autonomy, as if it were a business in its own right.
In other words, we aim for the best of both worlds: coherent direction at the centre and customer focus at the contract level, supported by a framework of effective controls.
To achieve that, weve developed a unique management structure and methodology.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:08 Page 50 50 HOW DO WE RUN OUR BUSINESS?
Our structure devolves decision-making responsibility for the companys activities and protecting Our fundamental aims are to focus on customers the interests of shareholders and relevant stakeholders.
requirements, grow the business judiciously and respond effectively to changing market conditions.
We need The Global Management Board includes some Group to do these things while ensuring that we protect the Board members, the divisional chief executives and other interests of shareholders, investors, our people and key senior executives.
It meets quarterly as the forum for the communities we work in.
And we need a system decisions that influence the direction of the business and that works across a business thats technically diverse reviews performance, strategy and governance in the and geographically spread.
It exercises leadership in directing the company to achieve its strategic objectives.
Key To achieve customer focus, we want to make decisions as members of this board form a smaller Executive Team close to the point of delivery as possible.
So we devolve that meets monthly to monitor and progress key aspects management responsibility while providing clear of the operational business.
direction about our objectives and values, and a common set of business controls.
This means decisions, tasks and Beneath the Global Management Board, Serco is responsibilities can be undertaken by the people best organised into business divisions running a number placed to do so within a framework thats fully of operating companies that deliver services to sectorunderstood.
specific customers under more than 600 contracts diagram below.
These management layers, right up to At the top of the organisation, the Group Board sets Group Board level, are tightly interconnected by giving strategy and objectives, taking legal and regulatory dual responsibilities to key managers at each level: Policy Policy Group Group Board Board Accountability Formal delegation Standards Standards GMB GMB Control Compliance Monitoring Audit Reporting Systems Systems Business Business divisions divisions Review Procedures Procedures Operating companies Operating companies Instructions Contracts Management systems Structure SERCO GROUP MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE The group structure devolves decision-making downwards towards our customers, while the Serco Management System ensures an upward line of accountability and control to the Group Board.
Layers are tightly interlinked by key managers with dual responsibilities.
