Running the business The business we want to run Market Regulators Investors Communities 3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 12 3 2003 16:53 Page 51 51 Chief executives of business divisions hold specific So we give each contract its own board, including nonresponsibilities for their divisions and share responsibility executives from elsewhere in the group.
This helps to replicate with the Global Management Board for group performance the groups governance processes throughout the organisation.
in line with the strategy they have formulated and agreed It also enables us to share technical and management expertise with the Group Board.
Each division sets its own strategy across the group and give contract management teams a for contributing to the achievement of group objectives and catalyst for innovation, continuing service improvement and is managed by its own board.
The contract board takes a strategic role reviewing and evaluating opportunities, strengths, weaknesses Managing directors of operating companies hold specific and risks, and feeding back into group strategy generation.
It responsibilities for their companies and also share also has an important assurance and corporate governance role.
responsibility with the chief executive and senior management team of their business division for divisional Our system ensures accountability performance.
We have developed and refined the Serco Management System over many years to provide a framework for all our activities.
Contract managers have specific responsibilities for their It spells out the rights and obligations of managers at all contract and also share responsibility for their operating levels, so that the organisation can behave consistently companys performance with its management team.
across its global portfolio of contracts while maintaining its business diversity and devolved management style.
We want contract management teams to run their operations like businesses, addressing customer needs and opportunities Each business division is responsible for operating within responsively and entrepreneurially.
the framework defined by the management system.
CULTURES AND VALUES How we behave Vision and strategy Operating structure and Policies Core process principles Direct, develop, deliver, support, assure Business Outcomes drivers Where we want to go and how to How we want to manage Best practice guidance get there the business How we make it happen GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE RISK What we stand for THE SERCO MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:08 Page 52 52 HOW DO WE RUN OUR BUSINESS?
They do this by establishing and operating appropriate Running the business is the responsibility of systems, processes and procedures to apply group policy the Global Management Board and reflected in the and monitor their compliance with it.
It is defined by the group operating structure, principles and core The Serco Management System is built around two processes that explain how we make things happen.
principal elements: These provide a business framework setting the boundaries and expectations placed on each business The business we want to run is formulated by the Global division, and a common set of processes for each Management Board, decided on by the Executive Team and business to adapt and apply.
interpreted within the group vision and strategy.
It sets the shared values defining the individual behaviours expected from every employee and the shared operating principles defining the corporate behaviours of every Serco business.
These elements reflect external influences including market pressures, regulatory demands and the expectations of investors and the communities with which we interact.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:08 Page 53 53 INSIDE STORY how do we RUN OUR business?
With an increasing number of customers were developing the traditional contractual relationship into something far more flexible and collaborative.
These partnership contracts are all about responsiveness, innovation and being fast on our feet.
They dont lend themselves to being run from a distant head office.
They work because of the empowerment our management system delegates to individual contract teams the people working on the spot.
Heres an example, where our responsiveness has more than doubled the size of our role in a little over two years 3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:08 Page 54 how do we RUN OUR business?
Partners in crimefighting National Crime Squad As crime grows more sophisticated, so do the agencies pitted against it.
The National Crime Squad NCS was formed in 1998 to fight organised crime on a national and international level.
Rather than reactively investigating crimes, it directly targets the people involved in organised crime.
That means working dynamically and flexibly, making fast and productive use of every scrap of intelligence.
The demands the NCS makes on its IT and communications are exceptional and fast-evolving.
So outsourcing these activities required rather more than a conventional support contract.
nstead, the NCS formed a strategic for example, when we restructured its partnership with Serco.
Theres a formal mobile phone contract, saving the NCS I agreement underpinning the relationship around 750,000 over 10 years.
but it doesnt stipulate fixed inputs or outputs.
Its a flexible framework for a close, co-operative Since September 2000 weve working relationship that wont get overtaken by developed the partnership events or wrongfooted when the goalposts move.
flexibly and professionally to deliver reliable and secure Fighting organised crime is an unpredictable services to some 1,330 officers business: our shared aim is to meet the squads and 420 support staff at more than business objectives as they evolve, using new 30 low-profile locations around the UK.
ideas and technologies as they emerge.
Whats At the start we identified 11 major projects.
important on a day to day basis is mutual trust This has already grown to 57 including and a shared determination to get results.
Within support for the formation of a high-tech crime the partnership structure were able to make best unit, an immigration crime team and a central use of the expertise on both sides, sharing jointlyintelligence unit, and development of a secure developed intellectual property and financial gains image analysis system and database.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:08 Page 55 The relationship allows business objectives and develop the customer us and NCS to vary our roles relationship, while keeping tabs on performance and responsibilities: we work as a and reporting back to the centre so that the single team, and incentives are structured group maintains effective financial controls.
to encourage innovation on both sides.
We also have the opportunity to enhance the contract by It works for us, and it works for the customer.
initiating new services that broaden its scope and As the NCS stated in its last annual report: add value for both Serco and the NCS.
Serco provides us with significant help in developing vital support services A thorough You cant run a contract like this by remote post-implementation review concluded that the control.
It works because we have an contract was delivering value for money and that organisation thats able to devolve much more has been achieved than would have responsibility to the contract manager.
been the case if the partnership had not been He has the empowerment, the in place.
training and the tools to make decisions on the spot finding the best ways to meet NCS 3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:08 Page 56
