accidents are prevented so far as is reasonably The community practical: and We encourage our businesses to engage with the local community in their areas of operation.
Examples of this include cultural and effective emergency response procedures are in place community sponsorship in Australia through George Weston to minimise the impact of foreseeable incidents.
com for details and the community activities of British Sugar through the British The nominated officer with responsibility for environmental Sugar Foundation Policy and Guidelines reproduced in full affairs is Paul Lister, Company Secretary.
Human rights The Gareld Weston Foundation was set up by our founder, the We strive to observe, in all our operations, the principles and late W Gareld Weston, in 1958.
It is one of the UKs foremost spirit of the UN Charter Chapter IX Article 55 and in particular philanthropic organisations.
as stated below: Contributions to charitable organisations by the group during the Universal respect for and observance of human rights and year totalled 0.2 million 2001 0.2 million.
Political donations fundamental freedoms for all without discrimination as to race, were made during the year by Food Investments Pty in Australia sex, language or religion.
to the Liberal Party of Australia 54,900 2001 30,819 and to the Australian Labour Party 4,766 2001 7,609.
Stakeholder relationships Suppliers Customers In the conduct of our business, we do not have a formal code We seek to be honest and fair in our relationships with our customers that we follow with regard to payments to suppliers but will deal and above all to provide the standards of product and service that openly and fairly with suppliers, adhere to contract terms and have been agreed.
At all times we take all reasonable steps to ensure avoid the exercise of undue pressure.
We agree payment terms the safety and quality of the goods or services that we produce.
with suppliers at the time we enter into binding purchasing contracts for the supply of goods and services.
Our suppliers are Research and development in that way made aware of these terms.
We seek to abide by Innovative use of existing and emerging technologies will continue these payment terms whenever we are satisfied that the supplier to be crucial to the successful development of new products and has provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed processes for the group.
We have major technical centres in the UK at the Allied Associated British Foods plc has no trade creditors.
Technical Centre and the animal feed Central Laboratories.
Facilities also exist at ACH Food Companies in the US, Weston Shareholders Technologies in Australia and AB Enzymes in Germany.
These Apart from the annual general meeting, which is considered to be centres support the technical resources of the trading divisions in an important forum for communicating with private shareholders, the search for new technology and in monitoring and maintaining the company communicates with its shareholders by way of the high standards of quality and food safety.
annual report and accounts, the half-yearly interim report and at www.
co. uk, the companys website.
significant matters relating to the trading or development of the business are disseminated to the market by way of Stock Exchange announcements.
The company also holds meetings with its major institutional shareholders to discuss the companys operations.
Annual Report and Accounts 2002 39 Corporate governance Corporate governance has been and remains the responsibility The Articles of Association require that one third of directors retire by of the whole board which is committed to the highest standards.
rotation at the annual general meeting in each year subject to the This statement describes how the company applies the principles requirement that each director seeks re-election every three years.
and complies with the provisions of the Combined Code Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice Board committees the Combined Code.
Remuneration committee During the year the Remuneration committee comprised three Statement of compliance independent non-executive directors and Harold W Bailey.
The board considers that it is in full compliance with the The Remuneration committee sets the remuneration and other provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code with terms of employment of executive directors, and the companys the exception of the recommendation that the Remuneration policy on remuneration of the senior executives, within terms committee should only comprise non-executive directors.
of reference agreed by the board.
The board of Associated British Foods plc does not accept this recommendation as it considers that Harold W Bailey, The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined Executive Chairman, should serve on the committee in view by the board.
The remuneration report on pages 42 to 45 of his unique knowledge of the business and its people.
gives full details of the companys policy and of directors remuneration packages.
The statement of directors responsibilities for preparing the financial statements is set out on page 46.
Nomination committee The Nomination committee reviews the composition of the board The board of directors and recommends to the board appointments of new executive The board is made up of the Chairman, Harold W Bailey, the and non-executive directors of the company.
It comprises one Chief Executive Peter J Jackson, two other executive directors executive director and three independent non-executive directors and five non-executive directors.
Details of the full board are and is chaired by the Chairman.
For the purposes of the Combined Code, WG Galen Weston is not regarded as independent, but Audit committee the board considers that he, together with the other non-executive The Audit committee has terms of reference modelled closely directors, provides a good balance for the proper governance upon those recommended in the Combined Code.
It comprises of the company.
The board meets formally at least eight times three independent non-executive directors and is chaired by each year, with other meetings as appropriate and has a formal Professor Sir Roland Smith.
It meets regularly to receive and schedule of matters reserved to it for decision.
It also delegates review reports from the external auditors and from management.
specic responsibilities to board committees, notably the Audit, The Audit committee is responsible for reviewing the companys Remuneration and Nomination committees.
Directors receive internal controls, risk management procedures and the audit board and committee papers in advance of meetings and also process and seeks to ensure that the financial and non-financial have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
information supplied to shareholders is complete and accurate The board has adopted a procedure whereby directors may, in and presents a balanced assessment of the companys position.
the furtherance of their duties, take independent professional The committee reviews the objectivity and independence of the advice on any matter at the companys expense.
external auditors and also considers the scope of their work and their fees.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separately held and are so dened as to ensure a clear division Internal controls of responsibilities.
Professor Sir Roland Smith is the recognised The directors acknowledge their responsibilities for the groups Senior Independent Director.
system of internal controls, financial and otherwise.
This involves 40 Associated British Foods plc
