Corporate Social Responsibility Building sustainable busine social and environmental perf Corporate Social Responsibility CSR is a core part of SIGs management process and the Company therefore aims to integrate CSR into every aspect of both the strategic and the routine management of its businesses.
SIG believes that the financial stability and strength of the Group is key to protecting its stakeholders interests.
The health and vitality of its businesses, its employees, its customers and its suppliers are of paramount importance in ensuring and developing the Groups long-term sustainability.
The Board is developing an integrated framework that targets and measures the performance of the Company in the following areas: lMarketplace lWorkplace Marketplace Workplace lCommunity The Group works closely with SIGs businesses comply with key suppliers to source and current employment  distribute products that and work with employees and contribute positively to local management of each and is working towards compliance with relevant and environmental performance.
branch to create a positive and appropriate guidance on CSR.
It is a founding member of the Board responsibility for Corporate Social Responsibility Association for the Conservation There is a strong culture of of Energy and is active in raising internal promotion and regular is held by David Williams, Chief Executive.
mandatory standards in thermal dialogue on job and career and acoustic insulation.
Improving the efficiency of the delivery fleet to provide timely, efficient and cost-effective delivery of materials.
Benefits: lImproved customer service lLower fuel usage lReduced emissions lEnhanced driver job satisfaction The ongoing programme aims to improve vehicle efficiencies by a range of measures including: lSmarter route scheduling lBetter loading lIncreased efficiency engines lSmoother driving techniques 16 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 For further information visit: www.
co. uk csr : ss practice into economic, ormance.
SIG, as Europes leading supplier of insulation and related products, is closely involved with its main markets of energy conservation, fire protection and noise control.
The Group contributes significantly to the overall improvement of the environment through the supply of these products.
Its supply of materials for repairs, maintenance and improvement in all of its business sectors helps maintain existing assets without the need for environmentally intensive investment.
Socially Responsible Investment Indicators: Does SIG manufacture or sell alcoholic drinks?
NO Does SIG manufacture or sell armaments?
NO Does SIG operate gambling facilities?
NO Does SIG generate nuclear power?
NO Does SIG publish or distribute pornographic material?
NO Does SIG manufacture or sell tobacco products?
NO Does SIG extract minerals or other natural resources?
NO Environment Community Does SIGs activity contaminate land or water?
NO Energy consumption is a The Group supports local charities and encourages priority for all businesses and Does SIG test any raw materials or NO employees to take an interest in ongoing reductions in the use of finished products on animals?
social and community activities energy are a priority for all operating companies.
SIG is outside the workplace.
operating a pilot programme to The Group believes that continuing to develop a financially SIG plc is a national member of reduce power-generated CO2 strong business, that is responsive to all its stakeholders, Business in the Community - a emissions.
SIG works with grouping of over 700 of the UKs and active in developing opportunities to work with these suppliers to source timber for top companies committed to stakeholders will produce a sustainable platform for its Roofing and Commercial improving their positive impact Interiors operations from ongoing, successful, business growth.
Minimising primary and secondary packaging on manufactured and distributed products is helping to reduce landfill across the UK.
SIG encourages all its businesses to purchase recycled and recyclable packaging where practicable and is involved in returning re-usable packaging and pallets to suppliers.
In some instances this includes recovering re-usable pallets from customers.
Secondary packaging for distribution products is also being re-used in some branches and the Company meets its obligations under the packaging waste regulations in the UK by working closely with the UKs leading compliance scheme operator.
Where appropriate, waste is compacted on-site, at source, to reduce transportation and landfill requirements.
SIGs businesses continue to look at ways of reducing waste - both physical waste and invisible waste built into business processes.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 17
