Delivering to our customers expectations Customer service our success.
Fast, flexible, responsive and reliable... Every customer is an individual with specific needs that change day by day, even hour by hour.
We have resources in place to provide a fast reaction to the ever changing priorities of our customers.
This is the essence of our service - fast, flexible, responsive and reliable.
1,000 phone, 5,000 stock Providing a complete one-stopfax and e-mail status checks shop service, ensuring that enquires are are performed products and services are received every every hour available wherever and whenever 10 minutes.
across 370 they are needed, across the UK, branches.
Republic of Ireland, Europe and the USA.
88 Customer focused service... Our customers often need products delivering within 24 hours.
They are dealing daily with unscheduled changes to work programmes, new priorities on site, emergency repair and maintenance, and unforeseen revisions to the material specifications.
SIG meets these exacting demands by investing in: lexperienced, trained sales people: lthe widest and deepest range of stocks available in the industry: lan extensive fleet of specialist vehicles to ensure a fast, flexible, responsive and reliable delivery service.
2 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 is the cornerstone of 7,500 customers Over 15,000 Over 10,000 One objective: visit our trade orders are deliveries are meeting every counters every loaded onto our made daily, customers day for products vehicles every from first thing needs.
or technical day for in the morning advice.
immediate to last thing delivery.
8 88 8 I A vital link in the supply chain...
Whether its a specially made acoustic insulation product for a cinema, a replacement roof tile to meet local planning requirements, or a ceiling tile to match an existing design, SIG is recognised as the supplier who has the expertise to understand the exact requirements and the stock to meet the delivery deadline.
SIG bridges the gap between manufacturers volume schedules and the contractors immediate requirements.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 3
