Introduction Employment Every employee is provided with a copy of a handbook, environment seeks to establish a balance The group values all of its stakeholders.
The group recognises that its employees are key to which gives details of terms and conditions of between the need to act commercially and the Recognising that they are the foundation of the the achievement of its business objectives and the employment and information on group policies and groups commitment to protecting the business and key to its success, it works closely enhancement of shareholder value.
A quarterly staff magazine, Ports, environment.
The groups key environmental with them to develop effective and lasting policies are designed to ensure that the group attracts, provides employees with news, features and comment objectives include the following: relationships.
retains and develops employees on the basis of from across the group.
Additionally, a corporate ability and qualifications without discrimination or intranet has been introduced to facilitate the flow of To manage operations so as to be sustainable During the year, the group established a corporate prejudice under any circumstances.
This includes information throughout the business.
economically and environmentally social responsibility CSR management committee race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, gender, sexual To continue to identify, understand and prioritise chaired by the Group Finance Director.
The CSR orientation, marital or parental status, age, disability, The groups remuneration policies are designed to all of the environmental risks inherent in the committee is responsible for reviewing and cosocial or economic class, trade union membership ensure that the interests of its employees are aligned business, allocating the necessary resources to ordinating the groups strategy and policies on a wide or non-membership and religious or political beliefs.
with those of its other stakeholders.
In addition to ensure that these risks are managed effectively range of areas including the environment, health competitive salaries, an element of the overall and economically and safety, employment, communities and corporate In line with its business requirements, it is the groups package is linked to the groups performance and To continue to operate its ports to meet the ethics.
The committee is also responsible for engaging policy to promote from within the organisation all employees are invited to join the groups share growing demand for certain trades while with and reporting to the groups CSR stakeholders.
The group believes that this is schemes.
minimising any adverse environmental effects Further details on the groups corporate social important for its ongoing success.
Internal promotion To ensure that the group maintains the harbours responsibilities will be provided in its first CSR report, not only provides a visible, merit-based path of career Additional benefits provided by the group include that are under its control to support safe which will be published during 2003.
Copies of this development a key factor in motivating and retaining private medical insurance for employees and their navigation report can be ordered by ticking the appropriate employees it also supports the transfer of families, competitive pension benefit schemes and To continue its work with environmental nonbox on the form of proxy enclosed with this annual knowledge and expertise throughout the business.
an employee assistance programme provided governmental organisations in partnership report.
To facilitate this, the group encourages regular through a leading UK organisation.
towards shared objectives which benefit the feedback and goal-setting, both of which are environment.
The risk-management framework and processes recognised as critical to personal development and Environment described in the corporate governance statement job satisfaction.
Annual Personal Development All of the groups ports are located in or near The Group Chief Executive is the member of the on page 65 are designed to identify all of the CSRReviews provide the formal framework for this.
The groups board responsible for the development and related risks that the group faces.
The CSR committee Personal development is further encouraged by a environmental policy to manage its existing implementation of the groups environmental works closely with the risk management working mentoring scheme which is open to all UK employees.
obligations to the environment in a responsible policies.
Senior operational managers are group to ensure that existing and emerging risks manner and to develop its ports and transport responsible for the management of environmental are managed appropriately.
The group is committed to ensuring that all employees business to meet the needs of the countrys trade issues relating to the operations under their are fully aware of their roles and responsibilities and in a manner which encompasses sustainable management.
During the past year, the group has the current activities and progress of the group.
development both for its business and the reviewed its environmental policy and objectives, 01 03 04 Corporate social responsibility A copy of our CSR report, to be published later this year, can be obtained using the form of proxy enclosed with this annual report.
The report will also be available on our website at 02 www.
co. uk 20 Associated British Ports Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 developed a new  The group is always looking for ways in which it can the Group Safety Manager and local managers and resolved promptly and that its customers are aware framework, updated its  bring about further opportunities for the economic supervisors, its policies and procedures are reviewed of any relevant developments within its businesses.
register and established data and targets for a and social development of its communities.
To by the groups internal audit department.
Accident number of its environmental impacts.
The group is make this happen, the group is forging partnerships and incident data are also analysed for trends and All of the groups businesses are required to comply sensitive to how its operations affect the following with local authorities, schools, trade and business patterns to assess performance and to target specific in full with all relevant competition legislation.
areas, in particular: organisations and maritime and medical charities.
Suppliers and sub-contractors Air quality Health and safety Customers The group is committed to ensuring that its dealings Biodiversity The health and safety at work of the groups Capital investment in the groups existing operations with suppliers and sub-contractors are conducted Climate change and resource management employees and others affected by its activities is of and new developments, supported by long-term so as to ensure the following: Estate management paramount importance to the group.
The groups contracts with both existing and new customers, Integrated coastal-zone management corporate policies on health and safety are backed is the most important feature of its current growth The advance agreement of a set of reasonable Marine matters within its areas of responsibility by a strong commitment from the board and are strategy.
The group believes that providing terms of trade Sustainable port development and sustainable based on the firmly-held view that injuries and sustainable solutions for the strategic needs of its The establishment of a fair and transparent transport networks cases of ill health, suffered at work, are preventable.
customers helps to align its interests with those of relationship based on mutual trust Water-quality management These policies are communicated to all employees its customers and reduces operational risk for The settlement of amounts due under agreement Waste management.
on or before the due date The selection of the most efficient solution for the Further information on these impacts and the The groups comprehensive health and safety The group is committed to developing long-term business, taking into account quality, whole-ofgroups management of them will be provided in training policy is designed to ensure that employees relationships with its customers and to ensuring life cost and safety and environmental aspects, the forthcoming CSR report.
receive an appropriate level of training, in accordance that the standard of its services is consistently high among other considerations with their job.
The group has also established throughout the length of any contract.
Respect for the sensitive nature of commercial Communities procedures for assessing, evaluating, monitoring agreements between the group and its suppliers By providing livelihood and prosperity through direct and supervising contractors operating on its The group continues to broaden the range of services and sub-contractors and indirect employment opportunities, many of the premises.
offered by its ports and by ABP Connect, its valueThe application of a zero-tolerance approach to groups ports are the economic mainstay of their added services division, with the aim of helping its any corruption or bribery in its commercial local and regional communities.
In turn, the group Trained and competent risk assessors carry out risk customers to simplify their supply chains and reduce negotiations with suppliers or customers.
relies on the health, stability and prosperity of these assessments of all the groups activities and their costs.
communities to provide its employees with a suitable workplaces to ensure that its operations are conducted Shareholders and suppliers of finance environment and to provide it with an appropriate with appropriate regard to health and safety.
The Group and operational senior management maintain Details of relationships with shareholders are set out skills base for the groups future recruitment.
robustness of the groups health and safety standards a regular dialogue with the groups customers to in the groups statement on corporate governance is verified at several levels.
In addition to reviews by ensure that any service delivery-related issues are on pages 64 and 65.
01 The Port of Grimsby & Imminghams 03 In December 2002, the group was honoured consistently high standards of health and safety to receive the ProShare award for Best New at work were recognised for the third time by Plan in recognition of the successful launch of the Royal Society for the Prevention of our new share incentive plan to UK employees.
04 Initiatives such as this art competition 02 A former pilot cutter in service at the Port of sponsored by ABP help raise awareness of Swansea was donated to Cardiff Sea Cadet the ports role in their communities among local Corps for use as a training vessel.
