Corporate social responsibility We aim to make our values of Performance, Innovation More detail on our policies and the work which we and Trust integral to the way we operate, and are do in these areas is provided in the following text.
committed to the principles of sustainable development.
This was recognised by our admission in 2002 on our Environmental management first application to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
We are committed to continuing reduction in our This is the most widely recognised arbiter of good practice environmental impact: we use renewable resources and we achieved the highest rating in our business sector.
wherever possible and reduce any adverse effect from products and processes to a practical minimum.
Our We published our second Sustainability Report in April business units must take effective action to control risks 2002, outlining our progress in corporate social responsibility and minimise environmental impacts through systems CSR.
It was more detailed and wider in scope than the and procedures based on a thorough understanding first, with increased measurement data and information of the risks and provision of appropriate training and on our activities.
Progress is reviewed annually by the Board.
The third Sustainability Report will be published on our Over the past 10 years our environmental management website in April and will include new measurement systems have delivered cost savings as well as initiatives, especially in the social area.
At the same time environmental benefits.
Our manufacturing processes we will be publishing a new Code of Business Principles are relatively low in environmental impact with locations in which brings together policies that currently appear in the US, UK and Germany.
Our main environmental impact different sections of our website, updated and broadened comes from waste generated at manufacturing sites.
We have included purchasing policies with We operate waste prevention and minimisation programmes particular emphasis on human rights and suppliers throughout the group and are examining ways of assessing practices on health, safety and environmental standards.
sustainable development aspects of our products.
In the Through this code we ensure that our planning and past year we have focused on reducing waste, the business decisions take account of ethical, social, legal improvement in recycling made in 2001 has been sustained and financial considerations, thereby minimising risks and emissions are down 12%.
This is a significant and balancing the interests of all our stakeholders.
achievement considering the manufacturing expansion which took place during the year.
Our sustainability efforts focus on: Social responsibility Environmental management Employees Our business units are required to provide safe Minimising the impact of our activities on the environment working conditions, plant and equipment at all their facilities.
particularly regarding energy and water use, waste, We maintain high standards and are determined to raise emissions and discharges.
them even higher through sharing best practice.
Business unit plans include measures to improve performance Social responsibility monitoring, enhance hazard analysis and risk assessment, Employees Maintaining high standards of health and safety: refine emergency plans and business continuity plans and providing training and development: giving people the deliver better targeted training.
opportunity to let us know how they feel about working for Smith & Nephew and acting on what they tell us.
Our employment policies emphasise equality of opportunity, continuous training and development, open communications, Community Investing in and working with the communities and rewards appropriate to local markets.
Vacancies are in which we operate.
filled within the company wherever possible.
We treat employees with dignity and fairness and have policies and Customers Educating healthcare professionals in the procedures to encourage this culture.
We welcome disabled techniques related to our product ranges and providing people and make every effort to retain any employee who opportunities for their continuing professional development.
Our new Code of Business Principles underpins the high standards we expect from our people.
Suppliers Working in partnership with suppliers and fostering open, ethical relationships with them.
We recognise the importance of good employee communications.
This year we have greatly improved Economic impact groupwide measurement and data collection systems to Making a positive contribution to society through creating monitor such areas as employee satisfaction, performance shareholder value, paying taxes, investing capital and appraisal, development and career progression.
We have creating employment: maximising the economic benefits also set up a reporting system to collect data on training of our products for healthcare providers, patients and throughout the group.
These measures will monitor progress those who pay the costs.
in the coming years and help ensure that we target our efforts in the most effective manner.
More information is available on our website at: 14 Smith & Nephew 2002 www.
com sustainability2002 In 2002 we conducted our second global opinion survey Suppliers We treat suppliers with dignity and fairness, and communicated the results to staff worldwide.
Once and expect them to do the same with their own employees again we had over 80% of employees participating in the and suppliers.
Our Code of Business Principles makes clear survey with positive scores in all areas covered.
In addition that we support the UNs Universal Declaration of Human 91% of respondents indicated that they were proud to work Rights and states that we will only work with suppliers for the Smith & Nephew group.
Significant improvements who adhere to business principles and health, safety, social over 10% increase in scores in many areas were seen and environmental standards consistent with our own.
compared with the Year 2000 results particularly in Specifically, these prohibit the use of forced, compulsory management style, communication with employees, or child labour.
anticipating change and the way people feel about their job, confirming that we have made good progress in all areas Economic impact over the past two years.
But we still have work to do: Our business policies aim to achieve long-term growth and scores for questions about promotion and reward were profits which in turn bring continued economic benefits to still lower than we would like and this will stimulate action shareholders, employees, suppliers and local communities.
Our sustainable development depends ultimately on our ability to provide a satisfactory return: in 2002 we generated The communications functions at our group head office, an operating return on capital employed of 29%.
group research centre and global business units work closely with the Human Resources departments at each We continue to invest in comprehensive R&D programmes site on all forms of internal communication.
Our linked focused on delivering better outcomes for patients and business unit and corporate intranets are increasingly well improvements in application and use for practitioners.
used, allowing easy two-way communication worldwide and Importantly, we also aim to deliver overall cost savings increasing peoples awareness of financial, economic and to healthcare systems through such benefits as reduced market factors affecting company performance.
Electronic dressing changes and shorter operating theatre times.
communication in general continues to reduce internal Our products seek to reduce patients time in hospital paperwork throughout the company.
and return them to health faster, potentially improving their productivity and bringing broader social and Community We recognise a strong obligation to contribute economic benefits.
to the communities in which we operate.
We encourage and support employees at all levels who undertake community work, providing resources and paid time off to participate in projects.
We support a range of charitable causes, mainly at local level, by donations of money, gifts in kind and employee time.
The company is a member of UK Business in the Community and we are committed to corporate community involvement across the whole group wherever practical.
Of course, we are also committed to meeting our community obligations under the law.
Examples of the programmes we support around our manufacturing sites can be found in the Performance section of the Sustainability Report on our website.
In 2002 our direct donations to charitable and community activities totalled 804,000, of which 400,000 went to the Smith & Nephew Foundation to fund individual research for doctors and nurses.
During the year, we restructured the Foundation to focus solely on nursing research where it makes a major contribution in the UK.
We again made no political contributions in 2002.
Customers Educational support to the medical community which we serve is an integral part of the way we do business.
All three of our business units run extensive educational programmes ranging from seminars and dedicated training facilities to web-based information sites.
During 2002 our Endoscopy business alone hosted 144 courses, training over 1,700 surgeons.
