CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW EVERY COMPANY IS EXPECTED The development of talented employees TO OBSERVE HIGH STANDARDS OF to achieve their full potential within CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Smiths is essential to the companys 360 AND SMITHS IS NO EXCEPTION.
organic growth and provides the core of continuity that is critical in a marketplace APPRAISALS OF  human capital where first-rate talent is at a premium.
LEVEL STAFF WILL HELP US PLAN While the introduction of lean processes and We have programmes in place across the THE CAREER DEVELOPMENT the sharing of best practices are making group to encourage and promote highly significant contributions to growing the capable individuals and teams.
Mentoring, AND MANAGEMENT SUCCESSION businesses within Smiths, maintaining for example, continues to be valuable THAT SAFEGUARD THE our momentum demands the retention of in helping younger people from diverse COMPANYS FUTURE.
talented people as well as an inflow and backgrounds across Smiths to develop development of highly skilled employees.
fully by benefiting from the experience of Whether markets rise or fall, the constant more mature managers.
We also recognise challenge in this highly competitive global the merits of mentoring at all stages business is to secure and retain high-calibre in management development and have individuals at all levels in the organisation.
gained much from the positive outcomes Our continued goal is to be the employer of these mentoring relationships in of choice attracting and retaining toppreparing future leaders.
quartile talent throughout our operations.
To help individual businesses in Smiths Smiths has 33,000 employees worldwide recruit the future talent that is our in 120 major facilities, with 75% based in lifeblood as a high-technology company, the UK and North America and the other we have increased our graduate intake 25% predominantly in the EU, Malta, programmes this year.
We have also Mexico, the Czech Republic and the introduced a new recruitment website, Far East.
In this large-scale, multicultural www.
com, which directly organisation, we have made excellent communicates the opportunities in Smiths progress in terms of bringing consistency for exciting, dynamic and challenging to the way we communicate with and careers for graduates.
In addition, all reward our workforces and the way that job vacancies worldwide are advertised environment, health and safety EHS internally on the web, thus giving employees policies are put into practice.
an opportunity to manage their own careers.
The next step will be to widen our reach and Career management reduce recruitment costs by advertising Having successfully completed the postvacancies externally on our website.
merger restructuring of the group and the combining of teams, particularly at Ethics in action management levels, we are now taking To underline our commitment to doing the opportunity to develop a 360 appraisal business according to our core values for all our management-level staff, inviting of honesty, integrity, transparency and feedback on individuals from reporting fairness, we are currently formulating new staff as well as from senior colleagues.
These set out our This will help us to identify the skills mix principles on managing and developing of our people more clearly and assist people across the group, whether or not with the management succession that local laws require this.
The overall aim safeguards the companys future and is to make clear that this is a company the career development that attracts in which people respect each other and and motivates bright new recruits.
which demands high ethical standards WE ARE MAKING CLEAR THAT THIS IS A COMPANY IN WHICH PEOPLE RESPECT EACH OTHER AND WHICH DEMANDS HIGH ETHICAL STANDARDS FROM EMPLOYEES AND SUPPLIERS.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 15 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW continued from employees and suppliers.
The basics leavers for the transition to work.
Managers are already common practice within Smiths have also provided an industrial mentoring for example we have long-established support system for pupils in their final 40% procedures to protect whistleblowers and year at school.
In addition, Smiths is a to take firm action against harassment strong supporter of the Year in Industry OF OUR 120 MAJOR at work.
scheme that gives one-year placements MANUFACTURING SITES ARE to young students prior to starting their NOW CERTIFIED TO ISO 14001.
Other examples of fairness and openness university courses.
in practice include the action we are taking OUR AMBITIOUS TARGET IS ahead of UK legislation in eliminating Employee communications TO HAVE ALL 120 CERTIFIED age discrimination and in implementing This year saw the successful renegotiation BY THE END OF 2003. equal pay audits.
We are also introducing of the Smiths European Forum constitution flexible working practices where they are to enlarge its membership to accommodate appropriate for the business model of the the new group structure following the individual operation.
Several businesses merger with TI.
At this years meeting in are already offering flexible start and Amsterdam, the Chief Executive presented finish times around a core work period.
the companys results and an overview of growth plans to delegates.
Following a successful 12-month pilot of an Employee Assistance Programme Lean manufacturing was another key topic at Smiths Detection, we are using the on the agenda.
Lean initiatives particularly results to design a scheme that offers in our manufacturing sites are focusing wider support and links with our current our efforts on improving the efficiency work on extending occupational health and effectiveness of our work processes programmes.
In addition, we are taking and procedures and on extending these the initiative in examining all aspects of principles to our customers and the supply business driving working closely with the chain.
These initiatives are yielding very RAC to see where we can improve safety positive bottom-line benefits throughout and reduce stress.
While these are pressing the company.
The Smiths Purchasing personal concerns for employees, they are Council comprises a range of managers also business issues with substantial cost with purchasing responsibility who work implications over the long run.
Our aim is together to consolidate areas of common to develop a system for managing these spend into global deals or to buy from new issues in line with company policies.
sources at more competitive prices.
Travel, communications and energy are all areas Corporate reporting where costs have been reduced.
Plans are well advanced for the publication in 2003 of the first full environmental Environment, health and safety EHS performance report for the group.
This Smiths regards good EHS practices as will also encompass for the first time a an integral part of business performance.
report on corporate social responsibility The Chief Executive continues to take for Smiths.
Many individual businesses overall responsibility for EHS performance both in the US and Europe have longthrough the Director, Human Resources.
established roots in their communities, Smiths corporate management of EHS where they are often a major employer.
has largely converged during the year While we support good community because of the increasing overlap in goals relations practices at the corporate level, and the activities needed to achieve them.
it is individual sites and employees who There is a need to take an integrated nurture the relationships by taking an management approach across EHS issues active role.
and there are also strong similarities in management systems.
Staff at many of our sites have long-term programmes of liaison and exchange visits with local schools to help prepare school 16 Smiths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Management systems and auditing holds the data on our use of resources, as is acceptable, but our accident figures well as our reduction targets for greenhouse continue to be exceptionally low in We continue to work towards our ambitious target of having all major gas emissions, water and waste to landfill.
Smiths manufacturing businesses We expect to sign up to MACC2 Make A certified to ISO 14001 by the end of 2003.
This Reporting to stakeholders The scale of the challenge is enormous, is a UK government-supported initiative to Smiths has published H&S reports annually help organisations improve their resource since 1999 and later this year will reflect but all 120 of our major manufacturing sites have now begun the process and efficiency and environmental performance the convergence of EHS issues with the 49 sites representing 40% are now www.
We shall specify publication of an EHS report.
This will be certified, up from 36 last year.
baseline performance in these areas and a precursor to the full environmental and report annually on progress against five-year social performance report that we have reduction targets summarised below.
committed to publish next year.
By then we Our internal health and safety H&S audit system is a valuable tool for identifying will have sufficient consistent data across opportunities for improvement and is rolling Our demonstration project on waste the group to make this meaningful.
out worldwide, along with training to speed minimisation is ongoing, with five companies its implementation.
Complete in the UK working together to minimise waste.
To Adding value date, this has identified 53 waste-saving Two essentials drive our global HR and EHS and now generating useful management information, it is expected to be complete opportunities, with a total savings value policies.
One is maintaining our technical in the US by the end of the year.
Case studies will be and managerial vitality by recruiting, put on the Trilogy website to encourage the developing and retaining excellent people.
Communicating best practice replication of these and other successes The other is the creation of a climate that across the company.
maximises their value to the company by Effective communication is vitally important to our EHS programmes.
A significant fostering personal development, innovative advance over the past 12 months is our EHS is an integral part of our lean enterprise thinking and the sharing of knowledge and Trilogy website, launched in July this initiative progressing in one year from a best practice.
Our transition to web-based year.
It is a three-part communications debit of 200,000 through our investment in systems is central to this and is delivering lean programmes to achieving an estimated commercial value in many areas.
Making and information management tool for sharing EHS best practice and reporting cost saving of 2.8m for last year and the best information available throughout performance across the group.
This has come from a combination the company enables our widespread with this, we continue to share best practice of initiatives, particularly those that have businesses to replicate successes in through EHS conferences.
A total of six reduced our use of raw materials, energy adopting lean operations and in meeting and water.
Such systems were held during the year, with further events planned for the UK, Europe and also open attractive global opportunities US next year.
Reporting on H&S is enhanced this year with for talented individuals, which in turn the introduction of a broader performance helps to build Smiths capability in From across Smiths, 100 people attended index, based on audit scores, accident international management.
statistics and workers compensation the highly interactive, three-day ISO 14001 implementation courses which focused employer liability payments made.
This The strength of Smiths is underpinned delegates attention on outcomes and is a development of the earlier system by the quality of our people.
that used only audit scores.
We have also management systems we are putting in introduced an internal audit management place are the foundation for reinforcing software tool to help line managers meet this strength for the long term.
Measurement and targets By combining the best systems from across their H&S responsibilities.
The addition the company, we successfully upgraded our of accident statistics makes the index a environmental metrics reporting system useful management tool that reflects what and extended it throughout the group.
This the company is actually doing.
No accident Absolute level Current efficiency Reduction target 2001 ratio 1,000 sales 1,000 sales Duration CO EMISSIONS 268,721 tonnes 87 kg CO 5% kg CO 2001-2006 2 2 2 3 WATER USE 1.28 million m 417 litres 10% litres water 2001-2006 WASTE TO LANDFILL 20,204 tonnes 6.6 kg 10% kg waste 2001-2006 to landfill Smiths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 17
