ABBOT GROUP plc Annual Report Accounts 2002 ABBOT GROUP plc Annual Report Accounts 2002 Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2002 The directors present their annual report on the affairs of Abbot Group the Company, except as disclosed below, are disclosed within the financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs the shares that have been purchased would be unavailable for replc the Company and its subsidiary undertakings together the Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 20 to 25. of the Company and the Group, and of the profit or loss of the issue until such time that the Companies Acquisition of Own Group, together with the consolidated accounts and auditors' Group for that year.
In preparing those accounts, the directors are Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 come into effect, which report, for the year ended 31 December 2002.
Substantial Shareholdings required to: is anticipated to be later this year.
At 12 March 2003 the Company had been notified, in accordance with Principal Activities sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985, of the following select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently Auditors The Groups principal activities are the provision of drilling and related interests of 3% or more in the ordinary share capital of the Company: with the exception of the changes arising on the adoption of Following the conversion of  to a Limited well and facilities engineering services on a worldwide basis to the new accounting standards in the year as explained in note 1 to Liability Partnership LLP from 1 January 2003,  energy industry.
the accounts: resigned as auditors to the Group on 28 January 2003, and the Number of Percentage The subsidiary and joint venture undertakings principally affecting ordinary shares held % directors appointed  LLP to fill the casual the results or net assets of the Group in the year are set out in note make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: vacancy created by the resignation.
A. J. D. Locke 41,300,000 23.49 The directors will place a resolution before the Annual General Aberforth Partners 19,371,103 11.02 state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, Meeting to reappoint  LLP as auditors of the Business Review Iskut Investment Holdings Limited 9,837,507 5.59 subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in Company having previously been appointed by the Board to fill the A review of the Groups performance and comments on the financial Standard Life Investments 7,145,306 4.06 the accounts: and casual vacancy arising by reason of the resignation of  and outlook for the future are contained in the Chairmans Coopers, to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting This company is beneficially owned by Mr Leif O. Hoegh.
Statement and the Operating and Financial Reviews.
prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is at which accounts are laid before the Company.
inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
Results Dividends Supplier Payment Policy Going Concern The Group made a profit on ordinary activities before taxation of The Group policy is to agree terms of payment with suppliers prior to The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation 50,231,000 2001: 10,163,000.
The audited accounts for the entering into contractual relationships and to abide by those terms which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to year ended 31 December 2002 are set out on pages 29 to 63. of payment.
As the Company is principally a holding company it has position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this The directors recommend a final dividend of 2.75p 2001: 2.4p per no trade creditors and accordingly no disclosure is made of the year that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing ordinary share to be paid on 6 June 2003 to ordinary shareholders end creditor days.
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the the accounts.
on the register at the close of business on 9 May 2003, which, Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and together with the interim dividend of 1.25p 2001: 1.1p paid on Employees detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Re-election of Directors 8 November 2002, makes a total of 4.0p per ordinary share for the The Group is committed to involving employees in the business through In accordance with the Articles, Messrs Salter and Hollis retire by year 2001: 3.5p.
a policy of communication and consultation.
Arrangements have been Annual General Meeting rotation and offer themselves for re-election.
Mr Salters service agreeestablished for the regular provision of information to all employees The notice convening the annual general meeting to be held on 14 ment is subject to twelve months notice by the Company.
Mr Holliss Share Capital through briefings and well-established formal consultation procedures.
May 2003, which can be found on page 65, contains details of a appointment is subject to three months notice.
There were no movements in share capital during the year.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully special resolution empowering the directors to allot relevant securities In accordance with the Articles, Dr Watkins, who was appointed considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes and abilities of the applicant.
for cash up to a maximum nominal amount of 1,318,771. during the year, retires and offers himself for re-election.
Dr Watkinss Subsequent Events If employees become disabled every effort is made to ensure that their appointment is subject to three months notice by the Company.
Details of subsequent events are provided in note 4 to the accounts.
employment with the Group continues and that appropriate training Purchase of Own Shares is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career The Company is taking this opportunity to seek authority to purchase By order of the Board, Directors their Interests development and promotion of a disabled person should, as far as its own ordinary shares.
The directors who served during the year were as follows: possible, be identical to that of a person who does not suffer from The directors now propose that the Company be authorised to a disability.
purchase a maximum of 17,583,624 ordinary shares representing A. J. D. Locke Executive Chairman just under 10% of such shares in the share capital of the Company M. J. L. Salter Chief Operating Officer Health Safety at Work in issue as at 12 March 2003 within the limits described in Resolution P. J. Milne Finance Director The well-being of the employees is given the highest priority through- 11 contained in the notice of the Annual General Meeting.
White Executive Director Drilling Operations out the Group and it is the Groups policy not only to comply with that purchases will only be made on the London Stock Exchange.
J. W. Hollis Non-Executive Director health and safety measures, as required by law, but to act positively This should not be taken to imply that shares will be purchased.
The G. D. Lafferty Non-Executive Director Resigned 9 December 2002 to prevent injury and ill health, and damage to the environment directors believe that it is in the best interests of all shareholders that M. A. McDowell Non-Executive Director arising from its operations.
Further information is contained in the the Company should have the flexibility to make market purchases G. M. Philipps Non-Executive Director Corporate Social Responsibility Report set out on pages 10 to 11. of its own shares.
The effect of such purchases would be either to G. E. Watkins Non-Executive Director Appointed 9 December 2002 reduce the number of shares in issue and the directors would Directors Responsibilities accordingly only make such purchases after considering the effect Alec W. J. Banyard Company Secretary The interests of the directors in the ordinary shares and options of Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for each on earnings per share and the benefit for longer-term shareholders or, 12 March 2003 Page 16 Page 17 ABBOT GROUP plc Annual Report Accounts 2002 ABBOT GROUP plc Annual Report Accounts 2002 Corporate Governance The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance The committees terms of reference are principally concerned with managing the significant risks faced by the Group and its divisions.
contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code, accounting matters, financial reporting and internal controls.
The Line management are responsible for the process of identification which is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority committee meets not less than three times a year to review all and evaluation of significant risks, assessing the design and operation and for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
significant judgements made in the preparation of the half-yearly of suitable internal controls, and the integration of this process into and annual accounts, before they are submitted to the Board.
It the day to day operation of the Group.
Statement about Applying Principles of Good Governance agrees with the auditors the nature and scope of their work and The processes used to review the effectiveness of the system of The Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out discusses with them the results thereof.
The committee has the internal control include the following: in section 1 of the Code by complying with the Code of Best Practice power to seek external advice as and when required.
Further explanation of how the Principles have been John Hollis was appointed chairman of the audit committee in At regular divisional board meetings, on which the Companys applied is set out below and, in connection with directors remuneration, December 2002 following Guy Laffertys resignation from the Board.
executive directors sit, each division presents a risk management in the Directors Remuneration Report.
George Watkins was appointed in December 2002. report which identifies its key risks, the probability of these risks occurring, their impact if they do occur, the strategy for Statement of Compliance with the Code of Best Practice Remuneration Committee handling the risk, an assessment of the controls and procedures The Company has complied throughout the year ended 31 December Non-executive members: Geoffrey M. Philipps Chairman, John W. in place and actions being taken to manage the risks.
The Risk 2002 with the provisions of the Code of Best Practice set out in Hollis, George E. Watkins.
Management Committee then report to the Group Board on section 1 of the Code.
As Executive Chairman, Mr Alasdair Locke has The committees terms of reference are principally concerned with risk management, the risks at Group level and updates on certain strategic responsibilities often associated with a Chief Executive the remuneration in all its forms of main Board directors and other progress made: Officer CEO.
The Board believes this to be appropriate since, due senior executives of the Group.
to his significant shareholding, Mr Lockes interests are closely aligned The committee meets not less than once a year and with the Consideration by the Audit Committee of external audit reports with those of most other shareholders.
Responsibility for operational assistance of information provided from external sources and from on the system of internal controls and any identified material matters rests with Michael Salter, Chief Operating Officer.
With the sources within the Company ensures that the salary, benefits and control weaknesses: and resignation of Guy Lafferty from the Board in December 2002, John pension arrangements of the executive directors, together with awards Hollis has been nominated as senior non-executive, who together with under any executive incentive plan, share option or other similar The full Board receives the minutes of all Audit Committee Geoffrey Philipps and George Watkins provide strong independent schemes are appropriate.
Further information is contained within meetings.
the Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 20 to 25.
The Board consider these three non-executive directors to be The Group regularly reviews the need for an internal audit function independent as they hold only minimal shareholdings and, other than Internal Control and the Audit Committee review the operation and effectiveness of remuneration for their services as non-executives, have no other The Board confirm that the Group has complied with the Combined this framework on a regular basis.
related interests in the Group.
Code provisions on internal control and implemented Internal Control: Guidance for directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull By order of the Board, Dialogue with Shareholders Guidance published in September 1999, for the year under review and The Company has a well established programme of meetings with up to the date of approval of the 2002 Annual Report and Accounts.
substantial investors and brokers, including presentations in respect The Board of directors has overall responsibility for the Groups of both the interim and annual reports and holding discussions in system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The respect of future growth and strategy.
principal aim of the system of internal controls is the management of risks that are significant to the business.
The system of internal Board of Directors control can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance The Board of directors at 12 March 2003 comprises eight directors: with respect to the safeguarding of assets against material financial four executive directors and four non-executive directors.
of items reserved for the full Boards approval is in place, which includes, The Risk Management Committee comprises John W. Hollis inter alia, the approval of annual and interim results, significant Chairman, Peter J. Milne and Alec W. J. Banyard.
Its role, on behalf transactions, major capital expenditures and the yearly business plan of the Board, and in conjunction with the Audit Committee, is to and budget.
Matters are delegated to the audit and remuneration regularly review and challenge the effectiveness of the process for committees, as appropriate, including those detailed below.
Being a identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the business small Board, the nomination and appointment of new directors is a and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
matter for the Board as a whole.
The Risk Management Committee also collates the results of these risk management procedures and reports on this at a Group level to Audit Committee the Board, including a specific assessment for the purposes of this Non-executive members: John W. Hollis Chairman, Michael A. annual report.
Alec W. J. Banyard Company Secretary McDowell, George E. Watkins.
There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and 12 March 2003 Page 18 Page 19
