Corporate responsibility The Company has chosen to present its inaugural Sustainability Reporting in the general context and framework of triple bottom line reporting on the physical, economic and social environments.
We are cognisant of the evolving body of work focused on this issue and mindful particularly of the more industry specific recommendations of such groups as the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers as well as those contained in the GRI Minerals Reporting Guidelines.
20 SOCO International plc Annual Report 2002 The Company is committed, within the context of its size and in accordance with the framework of applicable law, regulation and good industry practice, to conduct its business in such a manner as to benefit all its constituencies.
Specifically the Companys objective is: To manage our business in such a way as to identify and mitigate the risks associated with the processes we employ through responsible and accountable leadership that provides constructive, clear standards and creates the necessary physical, social and ethical environments for these standards to be implemented and effectively communicates the results that have been achieved.
Generally, companies in the oil and gas industry participate in projects as an operator, a non-operator or through joint venture structures.
As operator, SOCO can exercise a great deal of control and applies the corporate objectives and standards as set out above.
Where SOCO participates as a major interest holder or co-venturer, it can directly influence operations and seeks to ensure to the extent possible that good industry practice standards are maintained and similar objectives are applied.
As a non-operator, the Company realistically exercises little control but avails itself of every avenue to influence operations to apply comparable objectives and standards.
Environmental performance The physical environment is inevitably impacted by the nature of many Our standard is to meet legal and processes that this industry employs.
The Company recognises this and is regulatory requirements employing pro active in addressing potentially adverse impacts.
Upon entry into a new good industry standards whilst project and before initiating operations, the Company engages independent striving to utilise environmentally third parties to conduct environmental impact studies, which in turn establish friendly materials and minimize any baseline parameters by which the impact of its operations can be measured.
adverse effects of the by-products of our processes on the natural Currently none of the Companys operated projects are in the development resources and ecosystems in phase.
In its exploratory operations, the Group attempts to physically isolate its which we operate.
project from its surroundings and to contain any by-products within the project perimeters.
To the extent practicable, the projects energy requirements are met internally through recycling produced hydrocarbons.
Generated waste is disposed of in the most favourable ecological process reasonably available.
Provisions are in place to meet the cost of any remediation requirements upon site abandonment.
The Company has a clear formal policy concerning environmental issues as a subset of its overall health, safety and environmental policy HSE, which includes a management template outlining specific action steps to assist those in the field who are responsible for implementing the policy.
The Groups policy is reviewed in the context of each project and is adapted to meet any unique circumstances.
A comprehensive HSE management system has been specifically designed for and operates in the Companys major projects in Vietnam.
Specific responsibility for HSE is assigned to the Vice President of Operations, who is responsible for ensuring that the corporate policy is disseminated throughout the organisation and that initial and ongoing training is adequate to implement the policy.
He reports to the Chief Executive at Board level and his performance is independently audited by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, who has substantial experience in this area.
Formal reporting to the Board of Directors is in place that routinely reports against incidents and additionally provides follow-up through the investigative process to determine the cause and actions for prevention of future recurrence.
The Group routinely employs third parties to provide inspections of major equipment and processes.
Independent audits of HSE practices are conducted on major contractors.
21 SOCO International plc Annual Report 2002 Corporate responsibility continued Economic performance The economic environment in the industry in which the Company operates Our standard is to aspire to employ is very competitive.
The Company believes that its focus on relationships is a ethical behaviour in the pursuit of major factor in allowing it to compete successfully in seeking projects that offer corporate commercial objectives material upside to its shareholders.
in a synergistic relationship with the macro-economies in which Utilisation of relationships implies that the Company seeks a broader presence we operate and to do so in the in its areas of operation, beyond the scope of an individual project.
By partnering framework of a business process with people who understand a particular region, who are experienced in working that identifies risks and utilises sound in that region or who have a common interest with the progress of a particular practices to safeguard the assets region, we believe it adds to the likelihood of the Company being successful in of the corporation.
This success is sustainable because products and resources are sourced locally when reasonably available.
In many cases it means that the Company is the catalyst for creating support infrastructure where none exists.
SOCOs entry into Mongolia re-established an industry dormant in modern Mongolia.
Through the Companys and Mongolian Governments co-operation, an indigenous ministry was appointed and a legal framework was constructed by an independent legal firm enabling SOCO Mongolia to sign the first production sharing contracts PSCs in the country in 1993.
These PSCs led to our initial exploratory operations, which required support and infrastructure.
SOCO worked with indigenous Mongolian entrepreneurs to train and equip them to provide services to the Company, thus creating both direct and indirect employment opportunities for the indigenous population.
In 2002, the Company was recognised by the Mongolian Government as being the top foreign investor in the country.
The Companys promising venture in Vietnam came to fruition through its association with a consortium led by an expatriate Vietnamese with industry experience who wished to return to Vietnam to develop oil and gas opportunities.
SOCOs projects there are run through Joint Operating Companies that provide dual job postings in which expatriates and indigenous Vietnamese work side by side facilitating an exchange of technical and cultural insights with the ultimate goal being the complete Vietnamisation of the projects.
Social performance Social initiatives vary broadly from the Companys headquarters in London, Our standard is to endeavour to create to its technical offices in Calgary to its various project sites with wide ranging a fair, safe and healthy environment priorities.
The Company, through its operating entities, provides ongoing training in which a fairly compensated, culturally to ensure that its employees and contractors operate in the safest manner and ethnically diverse, direct and indirect possible.
It administers a clear formal HSE policy as described in the above workforce can interact productively in section.
SOCO diligently seeks to create a non-discriminatory setting, mindful business activities and in the greater of the labour force limitations imposed by some of its countries of operation, community in a transparent manner.
wherein a diverse labour force can fulfil their career ambitions.
The Company has formal policies and procedures that govern personnel matters and document that SOCO is an equal opportunity employer where marital status, sex, religion, race or ethnic origin has no bearing on the recruitment process.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are fully considered on the basis of skill, knowledge and ability to perform in the required post.
In the event of a member of staff becoming disabled, every effort will be made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
The Group values the involvement of its employees and endeavours to keep them informed on matters affecting them as employees.
Employees have formal annual appraisals and the Company provides for training, educational assistance and professional memberships to allow them to progress their careers within the 22 SOCO International plc Annual Report 2002 Company.
Because we are a small company, every employee has the opportunity to interact directly with officers of the Company.
Formal and informal meetings are routinely conducted to apprise staff members of Company activities.
We directly and indirectly support the communities in which we have a presence.
In 2002, the Company provided financial support for flood victims in Vietnam: underwrote the construction of elementary schools in rural Vietnam: provided logistical and other support for a medical team from the United States donating specialist medical care for Mongolian children: provided clothing to Mongolian orphanages: constructed water treatment facilities for Mongolian villages and underwrote a higher education scholarship at the University of Cambridge to provide future leaders in Mongolia.
Indirectly the Company supports a variety of charities both through financing the participation of its employees in their chosen charitable activities and through underwriting various charity fund raising functions.
During the year, the Company also underwrote or hosted economic forums for various Mongolian offices or agencies, offering other companies in the same and other industries a chance to learn of the opportunities to conduct business in the country.
The Group also underwrote the publication of a modern chronicle of Mongolian history.
In summary, the Group recognises its ongoing obligation to meet its requirements to its various stakeholders.
The commitment is real and the results are tangible.
SOCO provides educational support 23 SOCO International plc Annual Report 2002
