Yule Catto & Co plc Caring for the environment, Annual Report Safety, Health and an introduction by the Group the Environment Chief Executive.
The management of the impact that all our activities have on safety, health and the environment SHE continues to be a fundamental part of how our companies conduct their business.
We have increasingly focused management effort 18 19 upon this important area and as a result our SHE performance has dramatically improved.
However, we know we can do better, and during the course of 2002 we instigated a fundamental review of the whole approach to SHE matters within Yule Catto.
From this review Zero we set new and more exacting SHE targets which we are accidents is the goal committed to achieving.
We therefore fully expect to see continuous improvements in all aspects of our SHE for our employees, performance during 2003 and onwards.
contractors and visitors Alex Walker, Group Chief Executive, Director responsible for SHE Figure 1: 3 day lost time accident SHE Management Arrangements We have deployed a state-of-the-art frequency rate per 100,000 hours The Board of Directors and Group computerised accident and incident Executive Committee manage the reporting and investigation system to 1.6 Actual 1.46 strategy and review of SHE performance facilitate root cause identification of all Target 1.4 within the Group.
They are assisted in accidents and near misses so that we this by the Group SHE Department, can learn from our mistakes.
This has 1.2 1 which provides the Board and Group been accompanied by training at all our 0.95 1.0 Executive Committee with regular briefings companies in investigation techniques.
0.8 0.75 and reports, sets standards, provides 0.6 guidance, brokers best practice and audits Yule Catto representatives continue to 0.6 the sites.
We are committed to Responsible fully participate in a variety of chemical 0.4 Care, the global chemical industrys industry groups which contribute to 0.2 commitment to continually improving the continual improvement in product 0 SHE performance, and this underpins and process safety.
Health & Safety Our goal is zero fatalities and zero accidents to our employees, contractors and visitors.
In order to achieve this goal, in 2002 we set ourselves a target of 0.75 reportable lost time accidents per 100,000 hours worked.
We are very pleased to report that we improved on this, and we have now set ourselves a further challenging target for 2003, shown in Figure 1.
To support this, we have also set ourselves targets to reduce non-reportable lost time accidents and minor injuries, which also fell during 2002.
Performance During 2002 Our ultimate goal is zero breaches of environmental permit conditions.
In order to achieve this goal by continually improving our performance, we have set ourselves a target to reduce reportable incidents by 25% in 2003.
Figure 2: Number of breaches of Process safety and asset protection environmental permits During 2002 we experienced four fires at our factories, with varying levels of 120 Actual damage and business interruption.
As a Target result of this and other initiatives, we have 100 100 developed a sophisticated methodology 80 for assessing risks and control measures in major hazard areas.
60 49 44 Our goal is to have no incidents 40 resulting in major damage to plant or 22 17 20 equipment.
To achieve this we plan to focus on operational risk management, 0 and proactive investment in risk control 99 00 01 02 03 equipment where justified.
We will work closely with our insurers and other interested stakeholders in this Environment crucial area.
Our ultimate goal is zero breaches of environmental permit conditions.
In order Sustainable development to achieve this goal by continually improving Sustainability requires the understanding 25% our performance, we have set ourselves a of complex and sometimes poorly target to reduce reportable environmental understood concepts, from which target to reduce incidents by 25% in 2003.
This reduction society must make difficult choices.
will continue to build on the excellent As reported in our 2001 report, we reportable reductions that we have achieved over engaged with an external organisation recent years, as shown in Figure 2. called TruCost to review our current environmental position regarding the real cost of our incidents During the course of 2003 we are manufacturing activities.
We concluded committed to examining the ways in from this that it would be better to pilot which we currently collect, analyse and the process at one of our companies report environmental data to align to establish how it works in practice, ourselves more closely with initiatives before deciding if it offers any benefit to in the chemical industry concerning Yule Catto as a group.
As a result, one of sustainable development and corporate our subsidiary companies will implement social responsibility.
the process in detail during 2003 and progress will be closely reviewed.
We plan to focus on energy reduction and waste minimisation, and we expect to see significant reductions in both areas during 2003.
