Our people improving your service Formed alongside the Group Board in January 2003, the Operating Board is responsible for formulating Group strategy and directing its implementation across the business.
This Board is tasked with driving organic growth, managing global operating performance and meeting financial targets.
Its functions include the co-ordination of global customer management, new service development, and setting human resources and information technology strategies.
Mike Arrowsmith Mike Sprague Saad Hammad Martin Graham BSc FCMA MA BA MBA BSc Group Chief Executive President Americas Managing Director Europe Managing Director Appointed to the Group Board Joined the Group in 1991, and Appointed to the Group UK and Ireland in May 1999.
Previously appointed to the Group Board and Operating Boards as Re-joined Tibbett & Britten Senior Vice President and in 1995.
Previously President Managing Director Europe in 2001 as Managing Director Finance Director of SmithKline of Quest Canada, Group Vice effective early 2003, with UK and Ireland.
Previously Beecham plcs Worldwide President of Coles Book responsibility for activities in employed by the Group from Consumer Healthcare Stores and International the UK, Ireland and Mainland 1989 for 10 years roles business and Group Finance Operations Director of Nairn Europe.
Previously Chief included Chairman Mainland Director of Astec BSR plc.
Executive of Autocascade Ltd Europe and Executive Vice Appointed Chief Executive an Avis Europe Inchcape Plc President North America.
officer in 2001. joint venture company.
Also Joined Cearns & Brown held senior management Limited as Chief Executive positions at Minit Plc, Vision in 1999.
Started career with Express Group, Thorn EMI, Loweld Distribution, and also Boston Consulting Group and worked for Christian Salvesen Procter & Gamble.
18 Tibbett & Britten Group plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Employee initiatives a full-featured, highly The coveted prize was Ontario business Our objective is to be the most congurable learning system accepted by the Group on Tibbett & Britten Group North valued third-party supply chain for junior and middle behalf of our 17,500 staff in America member company, manager in our chosen managers, and aspiring the UK and Ireland, and our SCM, was named Business markets, and the development managers.
21,000 personnel in overseas of the Year by the Cornwall of people remains a key territories in recognition of Chamber of Commerce in component of our strategy.
While these and other new their individual contributions Ontario, Canada.
SCM training initiatives are to our success.
provides logistics support important in terms of achieving across Canada for Wal-Mart, our strategic objective staff Achievement marque the worlds largest retailer.
induction, health and safety The Group picked up many training, and specic job skills other accolades during the Developing people training continue to be the year.
In December, Tibbett Tibbett & Brittens bedrock of our people & Britten Fashion Logistics distribution centre at Bicester, development activities.
in Lancaster, UK which Oxfordshire, UK dedicated In Europe in 2002 we manages warehousing and to confectionery and snack extended our partnerships Queens Award distribution for Reebok UK foods manufacturer with leading external learning received the Marque of Masterfoods won the providers.
The focus is on Excellence in the North Developing People category creating an enabling leadership West Excellence Awards in the 2002 Oxfordshire and management style at a ceremony in Manchester.
Like that engages people and The annual event showcases many other Group locations, encourages continuous organisations that have Bicester has introduced improvement.
In the Americas, achieved high levels of an imaginative training the development of our webOur collective achievements excellence.
programme based on a policy based distance and e-learning were ofcially acknowledged of continuous improvement.
in 2002 when we became the first specialist logistics service Smarttrain provider to receive the These programmes will be Queens Award for Enterprise: extended further in 2003, International Trade.
We were initially in the UK, with the also the largest company to win introduction of Smarttrain any Queens Award in 2002.
Bill Howie David Musgrave Mark Whiteling Jo Robbins BA FCIT FILT FRSA FCIT FILT MCom Hons Managing Director Fashion Managing Director Group Finance Director Group HR Director Re-joined the company in Middle East and Africa Appointed to the Group Board Joined Tibbett & Britten as June 2002 as Managing Global Accounts in October 2001.
Previously Group HR Director in March Director Fashion from Appointed Managing Director spent four years at Enodis plc, 2002.
Formerly Head of Group Reality Group Ltd GUS plc, Middle East and Africa, with latterly as Chief Financial Human Resources at Hays where he was Logistics special responsibility for global officer of the Food Equipment plc, and previously with Director.
Previously Managing accounts, in January 2003.
Division, Europe and Rest United Transport UK Ltd Director of the Tibbett & Previously Managing Director of World.
Prior to this with then part of BET plc.
Britten Spectrum Logistics of the International division SmithKline Beecham plc division from 1998, and before from March 1997, and between 1989 and 1997 that Logistics Director for the Managing Director Tibbett & in the USA and Europe.
Also held Britten Consumer Group after senior management positions joining the company in 1987. at Grand Metropolitan Plc, Earlier with Unilever, TDG and Coopers & Lybrand and Binzagr Group in Saudi Arabia.
Tibbett & Britten Group plc Annual report and accounts 2002 19
