TRA V IS PERKINS PLC Corporate social responsibility statement We recognise the relevance of the growing interest in how companies manage social, ethical and environmental issues and are pleased to make this first corporate social responsibility statement.
The board takes account of the significance of social, environmental and ethical matters in its conduct of the companys business.
We have reported for some years on environmental and health and safety matters, and separate detailed reports in these areas can be found at pages 18 to 21 and page 22 respectively.
The board has considered the Guidelines on Social Responsibility published by the Association of British Insurers in October 2002 and intends to work towards full compliance with these guidelines.
The group already has in place a comprehensive system of internal control as described more fully on pages 29 and 30.
This results in the submission to the board of regular detailed reports on specific areas of risk.
The risk control procedures underlying this process have been reviewed to ensure that they take account of social, environmental and ethical issues.
Employees Our employment policies have been designed to meet the needs of our business, whilst complying with both current and anticipated legislation and following best practice.
Applied consistently throughout the group they provide a fair framework within which our employees work: The group is firmly committed to ensuring that the manner in which it employs staff is fair and equitable.
Our equal opportunities policy is designed to ensure that no person or groups of individuals will be treated less favourably because of their race, colour, ethnic origin, gender or sexual orientation, age or disability: We are establishing a system in which every employee takes part in an annual performance review process which enables : A better understanding of what is expected of them: Recognition of achievement: The opportunity to discuss problems and seek improvement: The opportunity for development and career progression: Effective succession planning.
We regularly consult with our workforce.
Throughout our branch network staff meet with management on a formal basis to consult over matters such as health and safety and customer service.
We also distribute a number of company newsletters and encourage wide use of our intranet, both providing valuable information and inviting feedback.
Employees are regularly informed of the groups financial results and the market conditions in which it operates and are consulted regarding any changes in employment conditions.
To encourage the involvement of employees in the companys performance, the company operates a Save As You Earn option scheme.
In addition, the directors, managers, and many other employees are members of discretionary bonus schemes: 16 TRA V IS PERKINS PLC Our commitment to training and development at all levels in the organisation gives our employees the opportunity to realise their full potential: We also monitor the employment practices of our UK and overseas suppliers through both sight of their employment policies and visits to their manufacturing premises.
Disabled persons The group recognises its obligations towards disabled persons and endeavours to deal fairly with such persons in matters relating to their employment.
Disabled applicants for employment are given full and fair consideration alongside all other applicants and due regard is given to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Where a person becomes disabled during the course of employment, the company endeavours to supply suitable training for that persons continued employment.
Disabled persons have equal opportunity with other employees to undergo training appropriate to the development of their careers.
Additionally, every effort is made to assist disabled employees to undergo training aimed specifically at mitigating the effect of disability on their employment.
Community involvement With over 600 branches in a wide variety of locations throughout Great Britain, we recognise our role in and responsibilities towards those local communities.
Our branches are encouraged to support those communities through involvement in local affairs, such as by sponsoring organisations or donating materials to projects.
At national level, we support two particular charities, the NSPCC and MacMillan Cancer Relief.
At least once a year we hold a charity fund raising day in which all staff, together with customers and suppliers, take part in a variety of activities to support our chosen charities.
The company also made direct donations to these and other charities, which, in the year amounted to 95,932 2001: 89,811.
In addition, we operate a payroll giving scheme through which staff donated 31,923 to charity during the year.
Product quality We recognise our responsibilities for the quality of those building materials which we distribute.
Suppliers are required to provide products of a specified standard, by reference, where applicable, to nationally or internationally recognised criteria, and accompanied, where appropriate, by guidance for their use.
Business conduct We require our staff, customers and suppliers to abide by high ethical standards.
Procedures are in place designed to ensure the security of our premises and to prevent theft and fraud, and these are regularly monitored as part of the internal control process described on pages 29 and 30.
We also have strict rules governing the receipt of gifts by employees from suppliers or customers.
The contracts of employment of all employees contain obligations of confidentiality in relation to the companys commercially sensitive information.
