24 Review of Operations Environmental, Health and Safety Review Constant vigilance and awareness of Environmental Health and Safety EHS issues is paramount in the oil and gas industry.
Tullow Oil is committed to developing and maintaining systems and procedures that allow it to effectively manage and limit risk in the day-to-day running of the business.
Everyone in Tullow is responsible and accountable for the safety of themselves and others, and is obliged to actively participate in promoting an EHS culture.
Tullow continues to seek to reduce risk, making workplaces safer for employees, contractors and local communities.
Throughout 2002, EHS performance was monitored and developed with a focus on improving systems and documentation.
A number of initiatives in both UK and international businesses were implemented during the year, supported by audit and investigation.
Most notable among these was our involvement with a local seismic contractor in Bangladesh to help develop an EHS management system and project EHS plan consistent with Tullows worldwide standards.
Safety During 2002 we made ongoing improvements to safety systems and processes.
Tullows existing crisis and emergency management response procedures in its various operations were integrated to provide a coordinated global response for all activities.
A rigorous programme was undertaken to ensure an effective response if required.
2002 Incident Performance Eight Lost Time Incidents LTIs were incurred throughout our operations in 2002 the same as 2001.
However, given a higher number of working hours, the key metric of Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate, measuring the number of LTIs per million worker hours, shows a very significant improvement from 7.00 in 2001 to 1.62 in 2002.
2002 Incident Performance 2002 2001 Lost Time Incidents 8 8 Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate 1.62 7.00 1.62 LTIs per million worker hours compares favourably with UKCS statistics and, according to a recent UKOOA benchmarking study, places Tullow in the top quarter of UKCS operators.
While there is no room for complacency in Tullows drive for zero accidents and incidents, we are encouraged by the improved safety performance especially given the arduous working environments in which we have been operating during this period.
The review of incidents in 2001 and 2002 shows that vehicles and driving present the greatest risks in all Tullows operations.
We have therefore concentrated on measuring and improving our own driving standards in higher risk areas.
Despite these efforts, we did experience a serious road accident, involving one of our subcontractor vehicles, resulting in the death of a third party.
We immediately initiated an independent investigation that, while suggesting some minor modifications to our procedures, recorded the root cause as failure of the individual to take adequate care on the road.
Road conditions in South Asia present an inherent risk and we will continue to pursue improvements in our management of these hazards.
TULLOW OIL PLC annual report and accounts 2002 25 Health There were no significant health related incidents during the year.
Emphasis has been placed on ensuring safe food and water for employees and contractors working in the field in developing countries.
High standards have been maintained and important improvements made during the year.
Environment No significant environmental incidents were reported within Tullow during 2002.
Tullow has been developing systems and procedures in the UKCS operations throughout the year towards external certification to ISO14001 in 2003.
This included the preparation of registers identifying significant environmental aspects and legal requirements of our activities.
These were used to set key targets and objectives to be achieved during the certification phase of 2003.
Other business units will use the UKCS experience to develop similar systems and targets.
In Tullow, we are very keen to appreciate the environmental emissions of our operations and in 2002 we entered discussions with our partners in the UKCS to establish benchmarks, enabling us to demonstrate improvement in future years.
Tullows drilling operations pursue a high standard in regard to cuttings disposal.
Efficient cuttings recovery in 2002 demonstrated minimal environmental impact from the programme.
Corporate Social Responsibility In Tullow, we emphasise high standards of business performance and strive to enhance our reputation as a responsible corporate citizen wherever we operate.
This commitment is recognised by all stakeholders, including employees, shareholders, partners, government agencies and the wider communities in which we do business.
We enthusiastically promote the EHS policies that protect our workforce and eliminate or minimise negative impacts on the external community.
Social performance is about the combination of: behaviour - following EHS and welfare policies: impact - how well the impact of operations on people is managed: and overall contribution to society - including support for community programmes and charities.
Tullow has continued its support for local communities, through contributions to health care programmes, provision of water supplies to local communities in areas such as Pakistan, and charitable and educational projects in the UK and Ireland.
To strengthen this commitment, and to ensure such activities are developed and maintained, the Groups existing activities and initiatives are being formalised into a structured CSR strategy.
As the business develops, we will continue to further develop and extend CSR in all areas of operation.
