Environmental review In 2002 we continued to demonstrate our long-term commitment to open environmental reporting.
As a national housebuilding and Committee reviews new either in areas of industrial property development company materials, products and dereliction or as strategically we take our environmental techniques.
The objective is planned new settlements and responsibilities very seriously.
to integrate environmental urban extensions.
considerations and sustainability At the start of 2002 our criteria into decision making at Once again we have undertaken Environmental Policy was reviewed every level of the organisation.
a sustainability audit of our land to ensure its continued validity.
bank with the information being The statement was distributed to Environmental performance used in the pro-active management Company employees, suppliers, In order to understand more fully of the Groups land holdings.
contractors, consultants and the business environmental impact As part of this exercise our stakeholders.
Also during 2002 we we have developed a management in-house consultants, Bradgate produced our first separate system to monitor the following key Development Services Limited, act Environmental Report which performance indicators: land use, as green travel plan co-ordinators represents the next stage in the landscaping, ecology, heritage, on our major schemes.
Companys long-term commitment materials, waste, energy to open reporting.
It was put on the consumption, water consumption, Environmental protection Companys website and distributed transport and environmental We are able to report that there to our permanent offices for onward breaches.
The collated data have been no environmental transmission to stakeholders.
Copies establishes a verifiable benchmark incidents leading to prosecutions were also sent to the British Library against which targets will be set during the course of 2002 and no for incorporation into their archive.
for introduction in 2003. fines imposed under environmental legislation.
As part of the monitoring Environmental management For the third year running we regime we have put in place a We have adopted a Group wide have participated in the BiE Index register system for recording committee structure that facilitates of Corporate Environmental environmental incidents across the the pooling of information and Engagement which assists in Group to ensure that appropriate resources to ensure best verifying our performance and action is taken to avoid any environmental practice is shared progress within the construction re-occurrence.
We also continue across the organisation.
Towards the end of 2002 to work with sub-contractors and an environmental audit was other site personnel to prevent The Groups Environmental commissioned on two of our pollution from our activities.
Committee determines main offices and two development sites.
policy decisions, below which are Supply chain management operational sub-committees Sustainability We have worked hard at supplier representing David Wilson Homes, Our skills as a housebuilder and relationships and now use Wilson Bowden Developments and commercial property developer partnering techniques as a means Wilson Bowden City Homes.
mean we are uniquely placed to of improving both our product In addition an Innovations create sustainable communities, and services to customers.
This 32 Environmental review Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Left: Wrights Mill has been part of Quorn village life in Leicestershire for more than 100 years.
Right: This fine surviving example of industrial architecture has been conserved via a careful restoration into apartments, with an accompanying selection of new cottages and townhouses, designed to blend with the mills setting and local architectural styles.
philosophy has been extended is employed and arrangements are increased accessibility to, and to include the environmental in place at our offices for waste awareness of, various information credentials of suppliers and subpaper recycling.
systems whilst at the same time contractors alongside quality, price reducing the need for printed and other purchasing criteria when Research and development output.
Our Group IT support placing orders.
Increasingly we seek The David Wilson Homes Eco staff can now remotely fix many to procure from manufacturers House, located on the University common software problems and suppliers who, as far as of Nottingham campus, continues encountered at regional offices possible, source their materials to act as a test bed for renewable without the need to travel to them.
energy and environmentally It is also possible for staff to work sustainable construction techniques from any local office as a result of Waste management under real life conditions.
We continue to investigate ways of reducing waste generation and We also continue to pursue a Training and communication energy usage in the construction policy of innovation in house During 2002 our in-house training process.
To encourage this, on-site design to meet the ergonomic programmes were expanded to facilities are provided for waste demands of todays homebuyers, include environmental issues segregation, thereby enabling which include improved energy from Group induction down to materials to be recycled.
During tailor-made courses for specific addition, wherever possible, any 2002 this resulted in the trialling of personnel, e. g. Working to excavated spoil and demolition three, four and five bedroom Protect the Environment material is re-graded on-site concept houses throughout the A Course for Construction in order to reduce landfill country.
Our new range of PPG3 Directors and Site Managers.
Increasingly off-site compliant house designs continues To enhance environmental pre-fabricated items are also to be added to, and smart house awareness across the Group we used to reduce wastage.
have introduced an environmental bulletin section in the Companys Our IT hardware is continually being Information technology in-house magazine.
upgraded, with older equipment We have developed internet facilities being recycled by ENVIRON, a that allow paperless trading with On the external front we are Leicestershire based environmental our main suppliers and enable progressively building links with charity.
Similarly arrangements are purchasers to view site details from other organisations and our in place for printer cartridge and home.
We have also introduced regional offices continue to provide mobile phone recycling.
We also video-conferencing at our Head various forms of sponsorship to continually update our business Office, together with an external local enterprises.
To give future systems to increase efficiency and email facility across the Group.
direction for initiatives the year reduce the amount of printed paper ended with the commissioning of and other consumables.
Wherever Our intranet facility allows internal a Corporate Social Responsibility possible double-sided photocopying communication, giving personnel Scoping Study.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Environmental review 33
