How we behave WPP believes that being socially responsible is not Corporate social only morally right it makes good business sense.
Social responsibility is an important factor in the responsibility management of brands and corporate reputation, a core area of our business.
Our values help us to recruit and retain the most thoughtful and talented people.
A strong record in Corporate Social Responsibility CSR attracts investment from the growing number of socially responsible investors.
Last year we carried out a global CSR survey.
This was our first initiative to collect this kind of information from our 1,400 offices worldwide.
In reporting WPPs record on CSR, we have therefore taken into account the activities and contributions of each of the operating companies as well as those of the parent company.
The survey captured significant information from many Group companies across the world and we are now working to improve the reliability and coverage of future surveys.
The data below and on page 76 relate to the calendar year 2001, except for training which is for 2002.
In our next Annual Report, we plan to include data for both 2002 and 2003.
WPP in society Key issues Corporate Social Responsibility covers a wide range of subjects.
We have reviewed these in the context of our business and believe that the most significant areas for us are: social investment, including donations and pro bono work professional work at no, or minimal, cost : marketing ethics: and employee development.
We also have a small environmental impact associated with our offices and business travel.
Overall, we believe that WPP makes a substantial, positive contribution to society through pro bono work and donations to charities and community organisations.
We estimate the aggregate value to be over 12 million worldwide in 2001.
In addition, many WPP operating companies encourage individual voluntary work which is undertaken, within reason, during the working week.
Management Howard Paster is the director responsible for the implementation of WPPs CSR policy.
The Board has divided responsibility for CSR between two Board committees, in conjunction with Howard Paster, to identify and manage CSR risks: the Audit committee, chaired by John Jackson, for social, ethical and environmental issues and the Compensation committee, chaired by Bud Morten, for employment issues including equal opportunities and harassment throughout the Group.
