How we behave Corporate social responsibility continued All directors and senior executives of operating 12.3 million worth of time, skills, materials and businesses are required to sign an annual certificate of money to social and community causes in 2001. compliance with WPPs Code of Business Conduct referred to on page 72.
WPP parent company The parent company focuses its support on education Progress and the arts.
Last year we made five commitments on our CSR Some of the educational initiatives supported include: nprogram.
Here we report progress: India: Indian Business School.
nSouth Africa: sponsoring young copywriters and 1 Adopt a Corporate Social Responsibility policy designers to attend the Red & Yellow School.
nOur policy was implemented by the Board and the UK: Charles Edward Brooke Girls School, which heads of our operating companies in 2002. specialises in media arts.
nUK: Royal College of Art annual illustration competition.
n2 Establish a performance baseline UK: provision of two bursary awards for D&AD, the We identified key performance measures and professional association for design and advertising.
information requirements for social, ethical and WPP is a corporate patron of the National Portrait environmental issues.
Our major businesses completed Gallery in London and supports the Media Trust which a CSR survey giving details of their social and ethical helps charities to communicate.
The information received relating The leaders of our operating companies regularly give to environmental issues was incomplete.
We intend to their time and skills to not-for-profit organisations.
improve the quality of the environmental performance WPP CEO Sir Martin Sorrell is an active participant information by focusing on our largest offices worldwide.
in programs at the following international business In 2004 we will report their main environmental schools: London Business School: Judge Institute of impacts energy use, waste paper recycling and air travel.
Management, Cambridge: IESE, Spain: Indian Business School: Harvard Business School and Boston University.
3 Identify best practice examples and communicate them Sir Martin is also a member of the UKs Council for across the Group Excellence in Management and Leadership.
The CSR questionnaire highlighted many examples of pro bono and partnership work which will be published WPP as an employer by the Company in a CSR Report in 2003.
Equal opportunities The Compensation committee and the Group endorse 4 Engage positively with socially responsible investors and support the principles of equal employment We completed questionnaires from SRI funds and are opportunity.
It is the policy of the Group in its businesses listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index throughout the world to provide equal employment and FTSE4Good Index.
We explain on page 73 our opportunities to all appropriately qualified individuals relationship with share owners.
irrespective of race, creed, colour, age, religion, sex, disability, sexual orientation, marital status, military 5 Develop and publish a plan for priority areas service, national origin or ancestry.
The Group has This will be further developed during 2003. implemented and maintained a non-discrimination In total the WPP organisation contributed at least policy since 1992.
WPP businesses pro bono work value Charity and community donations value by cause 8.7m 3.6m Environment Drugs Alcohol Landor Worldwide Hill & Knowlton 86,523 15,207 520,483 414,865 Arts Y&R 307,002 Other 758,146 1,386,717 Local community Other Red Cell 1,019,947 403,543 930,718 September 11 413,605 Burson-Marsteller J. Walter Thompson 1,021,582 2,097,262 Health Ogilvy & Mather Education 735,241 1,560,076 637,084 76 WPP 2002 How we behave Corporate social responsibility continued nThe purpose of the Groups policy is to ensure that Ongoing development of our public website, our all employment decisions are made, subject to its legal Groupwide intranet and our professional Knowledge obligations, on a non-discriminatory basis, whether Communities: Retail, Digital Communications, at the time of employment, in promotion, training, Media and Financial Services.
nremuneration, termination of employment or Formal and informal meetings at the operating whenever any terms and conditions of employment company level.
The Groups Code of Business Conduct referred Professional development to on page 72 contains practices in relation to human Managing talent exceptionally well is at the heart resource issues, such as harassment and discrimination of WPPs strategy.
We have tremendous faith in the and the Group has now adopted a policy to allow staff capacity of talented people to surprise even themselves to report confidentially, and anonymously if desired, in what they are capable of accomplishing, when both on employee and financial issues.
nurtured and challenged to reach new heights.
Their We continue our long-standing commitment to professional growth helps generate strong client gender diversity in the workplace.
Beyond WPPs satisfaction and improved business results.
compliance with an explicit non-discrimination policy, This year we took further steps in expanding our we have a strong track record of women taking senior executive development programs and sharpening our leadership positions within the Group.
Building on a strong array Our CSR survey tracked gender equality in management of programs already in place, the parent company is across the businesses that participated in the survey: planning the expansion of its executive development nWomen executive directors: 32% curriculum.
New programs fostering creative leadership, nWomen account directors: 53% client leadership and agency firm leadership were We are now reviewing the significance of this data identified.
These and other courses are being rolled for our businesses.
WPP also laid the groundwork for more systematic Employee ownership review of our people.
Operating company CEOs will The Groups Worldwide Ownership Plan, introduced lead rigorous and development-focused reviews of their in 1997, has given approximately 39,000 of our people executive talent, with the key objective being to cultivate a direct stake in WPPs financial success.
Details of this the exceptional capabilities of our leaders while assuring Plan and other executive stock option plans can be responsible succession planning.
Coaching, mentoring, found on page 86. and deliberate job moves are essential by-products People working in the Group currently own, or have of the talent reviews planned for the year ahead.
interests in, approximately 81 million shares representing We believe that investment in our people is mutually nearly 7% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Our training spend in 2002 was 21.4 million, equivalent to over 345 for every employee.
Employee communications WPP places great importance in keeping people in our Employee external appointments operating companies informed about the Groups The Company recognises that its directors and senior progress, activities and all matters affecting them and executives may be invited to become non-executive our businesses.
Encouraging people to expand their directors of other companies and that such exposure knowledge of the Group is achieved through a number may be beneficial to the Company.
Consequently, of communications initiatives: executives are allowed to accept non-executive nPeriodic reports from WPPs Group chief executive appointments with non-competing companies subject to all people participating in shortand long-term to obtaining the approval of the Group chief executive incentive plans.
in the case of senior executives and the approval of nDistribution of the Annual Report, the Navigator, the Nomination committee in the case of executive The Catalog, the Atticus Journal, WPPs global directors.
Any fees receivable out of such appointments newspaper, The WIRE, and weekly FactFiles are retained by the individuals concerned.
nA monthly online news bulletin e. wire.
nRegular communications on major WPP initiatives such as the Worldwide Partnership Program, BRANDZ, the Atticus Awards, the WPP Marketing Fellowship Program and professional development workshops.
