Environmental and Social Policy Environmental and :25 Social Policy To be successful any environmental policy or social programme must link aspirations with practical objectives.
In the last 10 years the group has transformed a derelict wharf into one of the premier business districts in Europe and constructed 8.5 million sq ft of offices and retail outlets.
To achieve and maintain the overall quality of the estate the group is committed to managing the environmental and social issues which impact on or result from the development undertaken by the group.
Environmental Responsibility Whilst the board retains overall responsibility for the monitoring and implementation of the groups environmental policy, it is assisted by the Environmental Planning Group, consisting of senior managers.
This body is responsible for the establishment of the annual objectives and targets which translate into action the environmental policy and address risks identified from the internal control review process.
Environmental Management Systems In 2000 the group began the formalisation of environmental systems and practices and has since adopted an outline environmental management system in accordance with recognised standard ISO 14001.
July 2000 to June 2001 was the first year in which the companys performance against established environmental targets and objectives was subject to formal verification by independent external advisers.
During the period the group was committed to the achievement of 21 targets.
The verification process showed an overall target completion of 70.7% consisting of 10 targets being fully achieved, 2 substantially achieved and 9 partially achieved.
For 2001 2002 29 targets ranging from energy reduction strategies to developing the Jubilee Park have been set.
Further details of performance against targets and objectives are contained in the companys Environmental and Social Report for 2000 2001 which is available on the corporate website at www.
To complement this system, employees are currently taking part in environmental awareness training to ensure that they have the required knowledge to improve environmental performance.
The developing environmental management system will be embedded into the existing audit programme for quality assurance and health and safety systems.
Canary Wharf Group plc Report & Financial Statements 2002 Environmental and Social Policy 26: Environmental and Social Policy Environmental Policies and Objectives Transport: The group aims to ensure that people working at Canary Wharf have an efficient commute and that the potential for road congestion is reduced.
Canary Wharf is the only company that has recently contributed significant sums to the provision of a public transport infrastructure in London benefiting not only the local residents and workers but also the wider environment.
As part of this policy: Canary Wharf has been planned as an integrated transport node permitting exchanges between the London Underground system, the Docklands Light Railway, London bus network and Thames river services.
Public spaces have been designed as pedestrian promenades and cycle racks are provided in all buildings.
By encouraging the use of public transport the proportion of Canary Wharf commuters using public transport increased from 68% in 2000 to 84% in 2001 with a consequent reduction in average carbon dioxide emissions per worker of 23% between 2000 2001.
Resource Use and Building Design: The groups stated objective is to reduce energy and resource consumption on the estate.
The group has thus committed itself to assessing all new buildings against the British Research Establishment Environmental Assessment BREEAM.
The group can report: BREEAM has awarded a rating of Excellent to 10 Upper Bank Street, the largest commercial building in Europe to achieve this.
A range of measures have been implemented with the aim of reducing energy consumption and the company is committed to developing a formalised reduction strategy.
As a result of water conservation methods introduced, there has been a decrease in consumption per person of 36% in buildings managed by the group.
Construction and Waste Management: The group is committed to minimising the environmental impacts associated with construction activities and recognises the significance of waste management.
Accordingly: By making use of the local waterways the group avoided 40,000 truck journeys in the year 2000 2001 that would otherwise have arisen from the transport of material to and from the estate.
Working in partnership with Bywaters Recycling & Waste Management Limited, the group is investigating and introducing further strategies, as well as exploring new opportunities for recycling.
Air and water emissions are proactively managed on all sites while noise pollution is monitored at regular intervals.
Canary Wharf Group plc Report & Financial Statements 2002 Environmental and Social Policy :27 Ecology: Through the development of the estate the group has transformed a once derelict brownfield dockland site into landscaped squares and avenues with varying emphasis on hard surfaces and greenery to provide a diverse urban setting.
Accordingly: Of the total land area, 11% has been dedicated to parks and greenery.
The group is working with The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds, The Royal Society for the Protection of Animals and the British Waterways to understand and enhance the local ecology.
8% of the estate is composed of canals and marinas, the water quality of which has been improved over the years by the removal of the upper levels of dock bed and the introduction of bubbler systems to promote fish life.
External Benchmarking External recognition of the companys performance relative to its peers is provided by the inclusion of the company in the FTSE 4 Good Index and its participation in the Business and Environmental BiE annual index.
In the 2002 BiE Index, covering performance in 2001, the companys performance rose from 66% to 73%.
The company remains committed to maintaining this momentum in the future.
The group was named Property Company of the Year for 2001 and 2002 by Property News.
The judges acknowledged that the group has created some of the best-specified buildings in Europe and the award is one of the most coveted honours in the construction industry.
The Future The company recognises that the implementation of a successful environmental policy is an on-going process.
While the company has achieved considerable success the ongoing focus remains on raising awareness throughout the Canary Wharf estate and improving the quality of the development as well as managing those environmental, social and ethical issues impacting on the groups business activities.
Social Responsibility The business environment is constantly evolving and in recent years there has been an increasing emphasis on social responsibility.
The company is committed to working with all stakeholders who have an interest in its business including employees, tenants, suppliers, customers, investors, shareholders and appropriate authorities, local communities and other organisations to identify key social issues and seek innovative solutions and initiatives.
Canary Wharf Group plc Report & Financial Statements 2002 Environmental and Social Policy 28: Environmental and Social Policy Community Involvement From the inception of the Canary Wharf estate, the significance of the estate in terms of the regeneration of East London was understood together with the need to work with the local community and to contribute to broader socio-economic policy discussions.
Since 1987 the groups community involvement has been extensive and diverse, including: Skillsmatch a jobs brokerage operation which has placed more than 1,700 local people into local jobs.
The creation of a Local Business Liaison Office which has helped place over 200 million of business with local companies.
The establishment in 1990 of an educational trust fund of 2.5 million which has been used to provide grants to local students.
In 2000 2001 the trust assisted 195 local students studying courses ranging from access courses to post graduate schemes and in 2002 the figure increased to 365 local students.
Sponsorship of a football league, twelve football teams, a football academy, gymnastics and hurdling squads all based on the local community.
Arts and Events The group has established an all year round arts and events programme benefiting tenants and the wider community and is committed to bringing art into the workplace.
The group won the first ever Special Award for an Outstanding Contribution to Art in the Working Environment awarded by the Royal Institute of British Architects at the 2002 Art & Work Awards.
Employment and Labour Conditions The group is committed to providing a work environment where all employees are treated with respect and dignity.
One of the groups key aims is to help and encourage employees to develop their work skills and abilities.
The group keeps employees informed of events relevant to their employment.
In addition the company publishes quarterly Canary Wharf News which provides information about developments on the estate and is circulated to employees and tenants.
During the year the newsletter was granted an Award of Excellence by the British Association of Communicators in Business Awards.
Canary Wharf Group plc Report & Financial Statements 2002 Environmental and Social Policy :29 Equal Opportunities The group is committed to equality of opportunity and it is the policy of the group to make all employment decisions based on the applicants ability, experience and qualification without regard to age, sex, race, colour, sexual orientation, ethnic origin, disability or marital status.
Due consideration is given to the recruitment, promotion, training and working conditions of all employees including those with disabilities.
In the event of an employee becoming disabled, the group uses its best endeavours to ensure continuity of employment.
Incentive Programmes The group operates various incentive programmes that are conditional upon the satisfaction of performance criteria.
The board regards these programmes as important elements in the retention and motivation of employees and for involving employees in the longer term performance of the group.
Further details of these programmes are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 80 and 81.
Training and Development All employees are appraised on an annual basis to assess individual performance, progress and career prospects within the company.
The importance of training and development is key to business success and is recognised at all levels.
The group provides training programmes both internally and externally to support the development of the business, to improve business efficiency and safety.
Health and Safety Policy It is the groups intention and policy that the working conditions of its employees should incorporate the best standards of health, safety and welfare which can be reasonably achieved and that all group premises are maintained so as to be safe.
Accordingly adequate resources are made available for these purposes and procedures exist to enable all staff to be informed and consulted on health and safety matters and to make known their views.
The company is committed to taking all reasonably practicable measures to ensure that persons who are not in its employment and may be affected by its undertakings, are not exposed to risks to their safety or health.
All legislation relating to health and safety is to be observed both in letter and in spirit.
Canary Wharf Group plc Report & Financial Statements 2002
