l. c. ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 ENVIRONMENTAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The Environment This report sets out Bellways approach to managing the impact of It is not uncommon for us to identify important ecological and wildlife housebuilding on the environment.
It outlines some of the habitats at our sites.
In addition to meeting legal requirements we environmental issues and challenges we face in our day to day business work with key interest groups to determine the best way to minimise and builds upon our Environmental Policy Statement, which is set out impact and promote biodiversity through the retention of selected on page 16. features and ways to encourage the colonisation of local species.
There are numerous examples where we have worked with local Accountability and Management agencies to good effect, ranging from the relocation of Great Crested Taking account of our actions is key to establishing a good and robust Newts by the creation of a nature reserve at Weymouth to the environmental management system.
We are identifying key establishment of a bat-house for the rare Lesser Horseshoe Bat at performance indicators and by collecting and analysing information, Langport.
we will be able to evaluate our environmental performance.
It is our intention to publish the results regularly in the future.
Through the We actively contribute to the regeneration of brownfield sites by strategic management of our activities, we recognise that we will bringing derelict land back into the community.
This year 75 per cent improve the environment in which we work and this will result in a of our homes have been built on brownfield sites, exceeding the positive contribution to the business.
governments stated target of 60 per cent by 2008.
Ultimate responsibility for environmental stewardship lies with a team of senior managers currently chaired by our Chief Executive, John Watson.
Land Management Land is a finite resource and our skills in managing this asset lie at the heart of our operations.
Our experience in treating land that has had previous uses, and may be contaminated, is important in creating new sites which fully comply with regulatory requirements.
Before land is secured each new location is carefully assessed.
This year the Group has tested new sites by undertaking 20 sustainability audits and 8 environmental impact assessments in order to consider issues such as movement, infrastructure, effect on the natural environment and developing communities.
These sophisticated tools enable us to understand the impact that a proposed development will have on both the environment and the community.
This assists the planning authorities in coming to a robust decision on our planning applications.
Sustainability audits have alerted us to key environmental issues at an early stage.
This allows us to take appropriate action in relation to issues such as the potentially important prehistoric henge monument in South Wales and the habitat of the Least Minor Moth in Northumberland.
Main: Victoria Dock development, Hull.
Inset: Victoria Dock development, Hull, in early stage of construction.
l. c. ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 Environmental performance The three areas that are currently being investigated as key elements The environmental and economic factors associated with waste of our environmental performance are: management are of major importance and will be a priority for our environmental management system to consider.
1 Consumption of Energy 2 About 50 per cent of the total CO emissions in the UK arise from We continue to look for new initiatives.
At Barking Reach we are energy used in heating, lighting and cooling remediating the site by creating a crushed concrete and capping clay buildings.
Approximately 10 percent arises layer recycled from other demolition and construction projects from from energy used during the production and within the site.
This has environmental advantages through recycling transportation of materials as well as in the the waste, avoiding the need to use landfill sites and minimising the construction of the building.
Source: BREEAM need to source new material.
Spoil material which comes from the boring of the Channel Tunnel rail link under the Thames is delivered to This indicates that the energy consumed the site by conveyor for reuse as fill or capping.
This will bring social during the lifetime of a house far exceeds that benefits for nearby residents through reducing road congestion as well used in its construction.
For Bellway the as economic savings for Bellway.
consumption of fossil fuels is an important area to be addressed and it is our intention to Bellway in the Community reduce usage of fossil fuel in the future whenever possible, both within Part of our environmental policy is a commitment to create a project the Group and throughout the supply chain.
legacy to ensure that, at the conclusion of a scheme, an attractive and sustainable new environment has been established that will continue 2 Consumption of Water over time.
This is achieved through a variety of measures including The provision of water is one of the first services to our sites during developing mixed communities with a variety of housing tenures and the development process.
We recognise that the sustainable use of ensuring that layouts benefit the natural environment as well as the water means minimising wastage within buildings and on sites and needs of residents.
preventing water sources from becoming polluted.
Efforts are made on site to meet these aims and we are working to obtain consistent Our development at Victoria Dock, Hull is a project where Bellway, and accurate data in relation to consumption on all our developments.
working in partnership with Hull City Council, has reclaimed a large At Ipswich and Dorchester, we have designed Sustainable Urban dock area and constructed a mile of sea defences in order to create a Drainage Systems SUDS which return storm water to the ground new urban community of 1,300 homes.
The scheme, which began in reservoir and not to the treatment works.
1988, has involved the remediation of 150 acres of land.
3 Production of Waste Extensive social, recreational and commercial facilities have been Waste is produced during many stages of the construction process and incorporated into the development including a community centre, can include a combination of materials from site preparation and medical centre, nursery school, playing fields and offices.
The clearance, packaging, damaged materials and general waste.
We aim development is now nearing completion and a maturing community to minimise this waste through the introduction of more off-site has been established.
The Victoria Dock Residents Association has prefabrication.
been formed and the aims of this community group are fully supported by Bellway.
There are a large number of suppliers and contractors involved in the housebuilding process all of which contribute to the overall This is one example of how a project legacy ensures that a sustainable environmental impact.
Homes are constructed using thousands of environment is created which will continue to function well after the components which means that influencing the supply chain for conclusion of the development process.
environmental improvements is a huge task.
In order to start the process, we intend to engage with our major suppliers to communicate our environmental aims and work together to realise improvements and benefits.
An example of this is our partnership with our supplier of Fast Track Panels, which are pre-fabricated before delivery to site, helping to reduce waste and save time during the construction process.
Waste is disposed of according to legal requirements, with special waste segregated and dealt with in an appropriate manner.
Main: An example of a development built on land using the SUDS system at Bottom: Concrete Crusher at the old Manor Ground development, Oxford.
Top: An example of a brownfield development at Quay West, Ipswich, Suffolk.
