28 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2002 Corporate Social Responsibility report Philosophy and approach 3i is an international business operating in 16 countries with under 1,000 employees worldwide.
3i aims to conduct its business in a socially responsible manner.
It is committed to being a responsible member of the communities in which it operates and recognises the mutual benefits of engaging and building relationships with those communities.
3i believes that respect for human rights is central to good corporate citizenship.
In everything 3i does, it aims to be commercial and fair, to maintain its integrity and professionalism and to respect the needs of shareholders, staff, suppliers, the local community and the businesses in which it invests.
3i aims to be a responsible employer and has adopted corporate values and standards designed to help guide all its employees in their conduct and business relationships.
These values and standards are an integral part of 3is culture.
3i endeavours to comply with the laws, regulations and rules applicable to its business in each of the countries in which it operates.
Environmental, ethical and social responsibility issues and standards are also taken into consideration in every aspect of the business.
Responsibilities and accountabilities The Board as a whole is responsible for ethical standards.
The executive Directors are responsible for ensuring compliance with 3is corporate values and standards.
A management committee, the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee the CSR Committee, comprising Tony Brierley, Company Secretary and Chairman of the Committee, Peter Williams, a Director of 3i Group plc, and Liz Hewitt, Director of Corporate Affairs, considers and reviews environmental, ethical and social issues and reports regularly to the Board.
The CSR Committee monitors the operation, and reviews breaches, of 3is corporate responsibility policies and procedures.
A risk matrix methodology is used to identify new risks, monitor developing trends and best practice and consider changes in 3is business and culture.
Peter Williams has specific responsibility for 3is environmental policies, leading the development of new policies and targets and reporting to the Board.
All employees have a responsibility to be aware of, and abide by, 3is environmental, ethical and social policy.
Employees are encouraged to make suggestions to improve processes and procedures, particularly those which lessen the impact of 3i on the environment.
3i encourages the adoption, by the businesses in which it invests, of good corporate governance and corporate responsibility.
As an investor in unquoted companies, 3i does not have operational control over these businesses.
There is, therefore, a distinction between 3is direct environmental, social and ethical impact, as a company, and its indirect impact through its investments, as an investor.
Social responsibility to the communities in which 3i operates The environment As a financial services business employing fewer than 1,000 employees worldwide, 3is direct environmental impact is relatively low.
The Group measures its own CO emissions and its recycling of paper and other materials where practicable and sets targets to achieve improvement.
2 The Group also assesses the environmental standards of suppliers.
Charitable and community support 3is charitable policy aims to support: Causes based in the communities in which 3i has offices.
Staff who participate in charitable activities.
3i matches donations made by UK staff under the Give As You Earn scheme and the proceeds of staff fundraising efforts.
This year, about 23% of 3is charitable donations went to charities supported by staff.
Charities relevant to its corporate activity.
The Trustees of the 3i Charitable Trust will consider making a number of significant donations each year to suitable business educational and business research charitable establishments.
As a member of the Per Cent Club, 3i aims to donate half of one per cent of UK pre-tax revenue profits each year to charitable and community causes.
Charitable donations made by 3i in the year to 31 March 2002 amounted to 407,087, supporting over 193 different charities with donations ranging from 25 to 100,000.
3i supports businessdynamics, which aims to help young people understand business.
3i also has a long running association with the Royal Academy of Music, sponsoring the Sinfonia Orchestra.
During the year, 3i supported Rainbows Childrens Hospice, a childrens hospice based in Leicestershire.
Social responsibility as an employer Employment 3is staff are fundamental to the success of its business.
Accordingly, one of 3is core values is to respect its staff and their needs.
Employees are organised in small teams and an environment of co-operation is encouraged to ensure the highest standards of integrity and professionalism.
In accordance with 3is core values, individual consultation with employees on matters affecting them, and fair and open communication, are a high priority for 3i.
Periodically, internal communication surveys of employees are conducted for 3i by independent researchers.
The last survey disclosed that 75% of the 255 randomly selected employees interviewed were satisfied with 3is internal communications and 90% spoke highly of 3i and indicated they would advocate 3i as an employer.
3is employment policies are described in more detail in the Directors report on page 26.
Health and safety 3i recognises the high standards required to safeguard the health, safety and welfare of its employees at work, its customers and the general public.
In an endeavour to achieve these high standards, appropriate policies and procedures have been put in place.
These policies and procedures are the responsibility of Rod Perry, a Director of 3i Group plc.
The purpose of 3is health and safety policy is to enable all members of 3is staff to go about their everyday business in the expectation that they can do so safely and without risk to their health.
When using sub-contractors, 3i imposes rigorous standards and endeavours to ensure that the health, safety and welfare of its employees, customers, sub-contractors staff and the general public are not compromised.
Corporate Social Responsibility report 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2002 29 Social responsibility as an investor Investment policy 3i has a portfolio of investments in over 2,500 businesses in Europe, Asia Pacific and the United States.
As an investor, corporate responsibility is a priority to 3i and account is taken of environmental, ethical and social issues when making investment decisions.
3i believes it is important to invest in companies whose managers act responsibly on environmental, ethical and social matters.
3i aims to invest in companies which: respect human rights: comply with current environmental, ethical and social legislation: have proposals to address defined future legislation: seek to comply with their industry standards and best practice.
3i has clear procedures to reduce the risks of 3i investing in businesses which operate in an environmentally, ethically or socially unacceptable manner.
Where, after an investment has been made, 3i becomes aware that an investee company is not operating in an acceptable way, 3i will seek to use its influence to encourage improvement.
Where that is not possible, 3i will seek to divest itself of the investment.
Performance and measurement To assist it in benchmarking 3is corporate responsibility performance, the CSR Committee has had informal discussions with other companies and specialists in this area.
The Committee has overseen the formulation and implementation of corporate responsibility investment procedures, implemented appropriate risk management procedures and set strategic targets and objectives for corporate responsibility.
The CSR Committee measures 3is performance against two indices: The Dow Jones Sustainability World Index DJSI, a global index which tracks the financial performance of the leading companies in terms of corporate sustainability: and Business in the Environment BIE, an index which aims to benchmark environmental performance and encourage sustainable development.
3i was selected as a constituent of the DJSI during the year and was placed in the top half in its industry group on a global basis.
3i aims to continue both to be included in this index and to improve its position in the next DJSI assessment.
The Committee will be focusing in particular on 3is policy of stakeholder involvement.
3i improved its performance in the last annual BiE Index of Corporate Environmental Engagement achieving an overall ranking of 99 out of 192 compared to a ranking of 102 out of 184 in the previous survey.
The CSR Committees objective is to improve 3is position in this survey this year.
In particular, the Committee will be seeking improvement in the direct environmental impact of 3i.
The Committee reviews 3is environmental, ethical and social policies, benchmarks its performance against these policies and reports to the Board on performance twice a year.
Over the coming year, the CSR Committee will implement a reporting structure to measure performance and communicate further 3is corporate responsibility strategy to the business.
The Committee has considered the ABIs disclosure guidelines on socially-responsible investment and is taking steps to achieve compliance with these guidelines where they are consistent with 3is commercial objectives.
All 3is offices are the subject of health and safety audits to ensure high standards are adopted on a consistent basis worldwide.
The staff appraisal process reviews the performance of individual members of staff against agreed objectives and provides feedback on the behaviours expected by 3i.
Audit and verification During the year, a risk review of 3is high level principles and controls in relation to corporate social responsibility was conducted by 3is internal audit function.
The recommendations flowing from that review are now being implemented.
In November 2001, an external audit of 3is waste management system was conducted.
As a result of this review, further waste management recommendations, including the setting of clear waste management targets and performance measures, are being put in place and implemented.
The disclosures in this report are the subject of an internal verification process.
