34 BG GROUP PLC 2002 corporate responsibility BUSINESS PRINCIPLES BGs Statement of Business Principles sets out the fundamental values and principles within which we operate as we drive to create shareholder value.
Our commitment is to the welfare of our employees and to the stakeholders and communities we serve.
Underpinning the Business Principles there are eight key Group Policies The Statement was first published which state performance expectations in 1998 and is reviewed by the Board and detail the Groups corporate annually.
The most recent review of principles and codes of practice.
These the Business Principles took account Policies cover: of external developments in corporate social responsibility and new legal Personal Conduct: requirements that followed the series Human Resources: of corporate collapses in the USA.
In Governance: February 2003, the Board also approved recommendations to incorporate clauses Human Rights: on fraud, theft and security.
In parallel, Communications: we reviewed the associated policies see Health, Safety and Environment: below that support implementation of Security: and the Business Principles and underpin our high level of commitment to corporate Corporate Conduct.
The Statement of Business Principles The Business Principles are understood and the associated Group Policies throughout the Company.
Translations will be available on our website have been distributed at local levels in www.
They are a formal and Environmental Report provides part of our dealings with partners further information on our policies and suppliers.
The Business Principles and activities in this area.
establish a code of ethics for the There is a continuing and widening Company and apply to every Director, debate about the constituent elements officer and employee of the Group.
of corporate social responsibility and about how to measure and define Our inclusion in a number of external corporate obligations to the communities ethical indices including the Dow Jones within which companies operate.
Sustainability Indexes is public BG recognises the importance of these recognition of our social and environmental performance.
BG GROUP PLC 2002 35 through the chairmans awards, we continue to recognise exemplary performance and innovation within bg, joint ventures and contractors.
the annual awards, sponsored by the chairman and non-executive directors, reward excellence and encourage the sharing of best practice in health, safety, environment, community development and peoples performance.
corporate responsibility debates and participates in them.
We organisation via performance contracts Safety are confident that our commitment to as an integral part of our business Our drive to deliver superior safety our Business Principles will remain a performance ethic.
Performance is performance was sustained in 2002, strong foundation for our approach to assured through monthly reports on with a reduction in the frequency of lost the evolving dimensions of corporate health, safety, security and environment time injuries staff and contractors per social responsibility.
to the Group Executive Committee and million man-hours worked frequency quarterly reports to the Board.
LTIF to 0.7 compared to 0.9 LTIF in 2001: HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY AND this is a 72% improvement since 1999.
Health ENVIRONMENT Our assets continued to make steady Our goal for safety management is that We believe that the protection of the progress with health risk assessments no harm is suffered by employees or health and safety of our employees and during 2002.
Approximately 32% of contractors, or by those associated with all those affected by our business and assets already report having completed our activities.
We continue the drive to the protection of the environment and their first health risk assessment protect the safety of our employees and security of our assets are critical to programme.
We deeply regret the two our overall success.
Our aim is to raise intending to complete these contractor fatalities in Kazakhstan during our practice to world standards in all assessments during 2003.
Thorough investigations of these countries in which we operate.
Our incidents have led to changes in approach to delivering good performance Reported figures for occupational illness methods of work and implementation of in these areas is based on the principle of remain low, but a study is planned for specific solutions to avoid recurrence.
2003 to establish whether these are a lessons learnt were shared across BG and true reflection of the current position or Our continuous improvement process with our partners and contractors.
if there is an element of under-reporting.
is driven by strong management New initiatives are being developed and commitment and employee involvement In 2002, our health strategy for BG implemented by our assets and skill and is enabled by a number of tools was revised and re-issued to reflect centres to help achieve a step change including our Health, Safety, Security organisational changes.
Emphasis in our safety performance.
These include and Environment Management System has been directed to promotion and the update of the 14-Point Profile tool and Directives and the 14-Point Profile.
development of occupational health in and the carrying out of climate surveys The 14-Point Profile provides the the assets, within the company-wide to establish the maturity of our assets framework to develop asset specific framework.
in relation to safety awareness and and business-wide Performance A co-ordinated wellness programme has to prepare for the introduction of Improvement Plans.
Contractors and been run from our Head Office with behavioural-based programmes.
partners have adopted our 14-Point different monthly topics.
A substantial Profile tool during 2002, notably in Security programme was created for the Kazakhstan, Egypt, India and LNG The protection of our employees and European Week for Safety and Health Shipping, to assess and improve assets is integral to our business.
Assets are now being their performance.
encouraged and assisted with health Our security policy has been revised to Challenging stretch targets are then promotion programmes of their own.
incorporate our commitment to the derived and cascaded down through the UK US Voluntary Principles for Security LOOKING OUT FROM THE NORTH COAST OF TRINIDAD TOWARDS THE HIBISCUS PLATFORM LEFT.
SAFETY IS TAKEN SERIOUSLY IN ALL OUR EGYPTIAN OPERATIONS.
We evaluate the Natural Gas, Northern Ireland: the pollutants, in line with this position risks of operating in varied conditions Rosetta field, Egypt: and the Hibiscus will minimise impacts and maintain worldwide.
good relations with local communities and regulators, so reducing the risks During 2002, economic instability in Climate change is a major environmental to operations and projects.
South America and tension both in the issue for BG.
New developments allow Middle East and between India and gas to displace higher carbon fuels HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT Pakistan provided security challenges.
with a net reduction in greenhouse gas BG people are a critical part of the BG Effective risk assessment and good emissions.
During 2002, we increased proposition, a key source of competitive mitigation processes allowed our capacity to supply gas by commissioning advantage.
We employ 4 606 people businesses to continue whilst Atlantic LNG Train 2 and expansion of the around the world, 3 884 of whom work minimising losses of revenue.
transmission and distribution networks outside the UK and 3 599 of whom are in South America, India and Northern We monitor closely the continuing non-UK nationals.
Direct emissions threat of world terrorism and the from BG-operated facilities during Building and continuously developing a potential for conflict around the world, 2002 were 5.7m tonnes CO equivalent, high-calibre, multinational workforce is 2 aided by advice from governments a 6% decrease on 2001.
Greenhouse gas essential to the continued growth of the and by interaction with others in the emissions will present both a financial Company and success of our integrated oil and gas sector.
liability and opportunity as policies to gas major strategy.
Environment control emissions, including emissions We have put in place a range of cohesive Our core business, the production, trading, are introduced.
To reflect the HR policies and programmes, designed supply and distribution of gas, has a financial significance of emissions, we to engage our people with the aims of potential net beneficial impact on the have collected greenhouse emission data the business, the needs of our customers, environment because gas is a relatively on an equity share basis from operated the interests of shareholders and the low carbon and clean fuel, capable of and non-operated activities.
well-being of the cultures and high efficiencies.
However, our activities Conservation of biodiversity and access communities in which we operate.
also have the capacity to produce to sensitive areas present a challenge negative environmental impacts.
We are committed to developing the to extractive companies.
We have We operate within a company-wide BG culture, where the power of diversity, developed a pilot Biodiversity Action environmental management system to collaborative working, creativity and a Plan in Egypt and are working with minimise negative effects.
Recognising strong sense of individual discipline and partners to minimise impacts in the advantages of independent responsibility are valued as key factors sensitive environments in the North assurance of the systems, we have made in the delivery of our performance.
More Caspian, Bolivia and Indonesia.
We have a commitment that all major controlled specifically, our people agenda commits adopted the environmental position to activities will achieve external us to: go beyond compliance, seeking to meet certification of their environmental internationally accepted good practice.
attracting and retaining the best management systems.
During 2002, Managing local environmental impacts, people, helping them to realise certification to ISO 14001 was received including air emissions and water their potential: by: BG Bolivia: Comgas, Brazil: Phoenix BG GROUP PLC 2002 37 BGs 2002 CONTRIBUTIONS TO SOCIAL GREENHOUSE EMISSIONS PROJECTS FROM BG-OPERATED FACILITIES % million tonnes CO equivalent 2 6.469 3 6.216 6 5.591 7 10 4 16 64 2 0 00 01 02 Mandatory Commercial Initiatives Community Investment Charitable Gifts Management Costs corporate responsibility encouraging the development of opportunities that the gas market Community Investment leadership capability throughout is currently generating and is predicted We seek to support social and economic the organisation: to generate in the future.
development in the communities where we operate.
The non-charitable BG aligning individual performance Key elements of this leadership Foundation was formed in 1998 to with the aims of the business and programme include formal leadership develop and manage our community the interests of shareholders: and training, mentoring and coaching investment programme.
The BG providing a supportive working initiatives.
In 2003, we will be Foundation provides structured funding environment.
supplementing this with a formal for community initiatives that support modular-based management During 2002, we developed the DOING our skills transfer theme and are aligned development programme targeted framework, which underpins all our HR to BGs business objectives.
at our growing core assets.
DOING which The BG Energy Challenge has now raised stands for delivering, outperforming, COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT over 1 million since its inception in integrating, networking and growing We recognise that as an international 1996.
The 2002 event brought together is designed to create a BG mindset, ways company we have responsibilities to 23 teams from the oil and gas sector, of thinking and behaving that will help contribute to the communities where raising 156 500 for the international to deliver our business goals and create we do business.
We make voluntary and humanitarian charity, CARE shareholder value.
The DOING ethos is at contractual contributions to communities, International UK.
the heart of our appraisal, development sponsor local groups and run employee and reward programmes.
We offer various employee involvement involvement programmes.
The matched funding We have also put a number of processes undertake social impact assessments, scheme, CareShare, allows employees in place to develop a genuinely develop community relationships and to increase the money they raise up to international management team contribute to sustainable development.
a maximum of 250 per person per year.
and create opportunities for local BGs voluntary and contractual In 2002, the CareShare scheme contributed managers in all the countries in which contributions to social projects in 2002 a further 7 651 to 23 018 raised by we operate to realise their potential.
totalled 6.5 million, which is quantified 34 employees benefiting 27 charitable Such programmes enable BG to benefit by the London Benchmarking Group causes.
UK payroll employees use our from access to a worldwide pool of model www.
payroll-giving scheme and contribute employees who are able to combine a monthly average of 45 from pre-tax knowledge of local culture and business Social and Economic Impact salary to charities of their choice.
The social and economic impacts of oil and gas exploration and development During the year, we invested in the activities can be substantial.
We development of a Group-wide leadership recognise that understanding the programme, with a particular focus potential social impacts of our activities on doing new things in new ways.
will become increasingly complex as By developing leadership capability our operations grow globally and can throughout the organisation, we will be located near remote and vulnerable be able to take advantage of the communities.
