28 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Corporate Social Responsibility Report The following report contains extracts We are a supporter of the Governments Groups success and reputation by taken from our first Corporate Social Universal Banking initiative, and offer a carrying out his or her job conscientiously, Responsibility Report CSR which was basic bank account product.
efficiently and honestly, and maintaining published on the Groups corporate the highest standards of integrity and website www.
 service personal conduct in all matters which affect the Group.
Internally we monitor our customer service performance on a monthly basis Consistent with the highest standards We know that our future success as part of our business strategy.
This of integrity, we do not countenance depends on taking into account the includes regular sampling of our personal the solicitation or acceptance of interests of all stakeholders in our customers concerning what they think hospitality or gifts which may be business: our customers, our employees, of our service helping us to identify mistaken for an inducement, nor do our shareholders and the wider what we are doing well and where there we countenance use of information community in which we work and live.
We formally received in the course of our business The demands of these different compare our service performance to that dealings for personal gain.
stakeholders may differ at times, but a of our competitors, and we use mystery We provide the means whereby successful business recognises the shopping to measure our performance staff can report any suspicions of important role each plays in making against our own internal service wrongdoing to senior management the business a success.
The results of these surveys or to our Internal Audit and provide vital input to our management.
The progress we have made with CSRCompliance Departments.
related matters to date has been reected We seek business relationships which Business ethics in the Group maintaining membership of are mutually beneficial and lead to Our statement of Business Principles, the FTSE4 Good index during 2002. success through fair dealing and high which was approved by the Board and Alliance & Leicester is a member of the standards of business integrity.
communicated to all staff in May 2002, British Bankers Association BBA CSR includes a number of items which We will normally seek competitive Advisory Panel.
During 2002, the BBA encapsulate the Groups business ethics.
contributed to the publication of the FORGE Group guidance on CSR management and reporting in the financial services sector.
The FORGE Group guidance was published We know that our future success whilst we were collating this report, and we have structured the report under the headings outlined by FORGE as being depends on taking into account the those most relevant to financial services organisations.
interests of all stakeholders in our Our Marketplace Access to products and services business: our customers, our Our distribution network covers the whole of the UK and includes branches, ATMs, employees, our shareholders and telephone and postal banking, and the internet, as well as access through Post Ofces.
We recognise that some of our the wider community in which we customers have additional needs and we have developed a number of services to work and live.
For customers who are deaf, hard of hearing or have speech impairments, a fully qualied The following extracts from that document We do not knowingly do business sign language interpreter is available on address ethical matters: with organisations or bodies which are request.
Customers can also use a Typetalk involved in the abuse of human rights.
operator to relay a message to us.
We will not risk the Groups reputation by knowingly associating with people, We are still vigilant in ensuring that we For customers with visual impairments organisations, products or transactions that lend only to respected institutions and we make our documents easier to read by could potentially damage our reputation.
do not deal knowingly with businesses printing brochures, letters and statements involved in any illicit activities, such as in larger print, or providing them in an We are positive about complying with money laundering or foreign regimes audio or Braille format.
our legal and regulatory obligations that violate human rights.
this protects our customers, our New and refurbished branches of Alliance shareholders and ourselves.
& Leicester are being designed, wherever Privacy possible, to make them more convenient Each member of staff has a personal The Groups policies comply with the Data and accessible for customers.
responsibility to contribute to the Protection Act and it has stringent policies Alliance & Leicester is involved in the Right to Read campaign in 3 local education areas.
Right to Read is a national initiative which invites individual volunteers, sponsored by their employer, to go into a local school and give children with difficulties the help and advice they need to improve their reading skills.
on the protection of customer privacy, of Company trade creditors at the end of We carry out an annual employee conforming to standards set by the the year to the amounts invoiced during opinion survey which is sent to all Group voluntary banking codes and legislation.
the year by trade creditors.
staff, asking their views on the Group.
The Group results from the 2002 survey Terms of trade Our Workplace showed improvement over the 2001 Our products are aimed at UK-based survey in each of the categories surveyed Our business vision commits Alliance & customers or British expatriates, and all Communications, Leadership & Leicester to becoming the most customer of our operations are based in the British Involvement, Morale & Commitment, focused financial services provider in the Isles.
In this context, Terms of Trade and Development.
We know that we cannot issues are not a significant issue for achieve that without the whole-hearted the Group, nor does our behaviour Learning and development commitment of our employees.
significantly impact on such issues as they Our innovative Valuing Individual People Responsibility for all employee related would for a more international company.
VIP training programme aims to help our issues, including Health & Safety, rests with employees achieve our vision.
VIP focuses the Groups Human Resources Director Creditor payment policy on putting the internal and external who reports to the Group Chief Executive.
The Group is a signatory of the DTIs customer at the centre of everything we Better Payment Practice Code.
do, and ensuring that everyone is treated Throughout the Group, there are Information regarding this code and as a valued and respected individual.
numerous examples of actions aimed at its purpose can be obtained from the developing and motivating our workforce.
We are proud that we have achieved Better Payment Practice Groups website During 2002, many of these have been Investors in People accreditation in over 70% at www.
brought together under the heading of our business, including all of our principal Living Life Better at Alliance & Leicester.
We aim to increase It is Group policy to: We believe that effective communication this proportion further during 2003. agree the terms of payment at the start and consultation with our employees Alliance & Leicester operates a number of business with that supplier is crucially important.
Almost all of our of development schemes aimed at high employees have access to our Group ensure suppliers are aware of the achievers, including our management Intranet either at their workstation or at payment terms trainee scheme, an accelerated leadership designated Intranet points.
The Intranet pay in accordance with any contractual programme and sponsorship of further not only keeps employees up to date and other legal obligations.
with business related information, but Trade creditor days of the Company for also provides staff with the facility to In addition, Alliance & Leicester invests ask questions on any subject related the year ended 31 December 2002 were in further education opportunities 28 days 2001: 22 days based on the ratio to the Group.
that support the development of our 30 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued employees, such as CeMAP, CeFA, CIM and CIPD qualications.
We actively support local Disciplinary practices The Group encourages employees to adopt a responsible attitude to work, communities through charitable encompassing self imposed discipline.
The main aim of the Groups Discipline donations, gifts in kind and through policy is to be corrective rather than punitive and is in line with the ACAS Code of Practice on discipline at work.
It sets the involvement of our staff in reasonable standards of performance and behaviour and aims to ensure consistency volunteering initiatives.
and fairness of treatment of all employees when these standards are not met.
Work life balance Our security policies state clearly that the representatives are invited to attend our We believe it is important for all staff to safety, health and welfare of our staff must regular senior management briengs.
be able to share the benets of good always be placed before the minimisation of performance by the Company.
financial or other loss by Alliance & Leicester.
Working with our Local Communities This is reected in a number of ways.
Responsibility for Community affairs Diversity and equal opportunities rests with the Director of Corporate More than 90% of our employees are Alliance & Leicester recognises the right Alliance & Leicester shareholders and more Communications, who reports to the Group of every employee to be treated with Chief Executive.
We are proud of the links than 90% participate in one or more of dignity and respect at work.
Working we have built up with the community, in our Company share schemes.
with our union representatives we have particular with the local communities in Our Flexible Holidays scheme enables produced and promoted a Group policy which our employees live and work.
employees to buy or sell up to five days to ensure that any problems are dealt holiday each year.
More than 20% of our We actively support local communities with promptly and with sensitivity.
We staff take advantage of this benefit.
through charitable donations, gifts in kind take our responsibilities under the Disability and through the involvement of our staff Discrimination Act 1995 very seriously and We offer our staff incentives to own in volunteering initiatives.
Our charitable ensure all reasonable measures are taken to and use Alliance & Leicester products, donations policy particularly emphasises enable customers and potential customers and we also offer our employees the support for the communities from which to access the full range of Group products chance to participate in various promotion we draw large numbers of employees and services at all our premises within the and partnership packages, including in particular Leicestershire and Merseyside.
timescales as dened within the Act.
Our discounted health club membership, In each of these areas we have strong links Equal Opportunities policy commits us to holidays and childcare.
The Group offers with local schools, voluntary groups removing barriers which would prevent the employees an enhanced maternity, and charities.
employment of disabled people in Group paternity and adoption leave package jobs and to implement all reasonable During 2002 Alliance & Leicester made which exceeds statutory obligations donations for charitable purposes measures to ensure disabled staff can and is exible to the requirements of effectively carry out their jobs.
150,000 donated by the Group to the employer Alliance & Leicester recognises We offer our employees a range of NSPCCs FULL STOP campaign as a result the potential that all people bring to the exible working hours and location of our account opening promotion run in workplace regardless of sex, race, ethnic arrangements to match their individual December 2001 and January 2002. or national origin, religious belief, marital needs wherever possible.
status, disability or sexual orientation.
In addition to these donations our As part of that philosophy and in keeping Corporate Community Investment Health and safety with our values, we believe that every programme has given support to a large Alliance & Leicesters Health and Safety employee should be treated with the number of organisations nationally and Mission Statement commits us to ensuring same respect and dignity.
This support has taken various that our employees are provided with a forms including gifts in kind, management safe and healthy working environment, Freedom of association collective bargaining secondments, organising fund raising and to achieving Health & Safety Alliance & Leicester recognises the events and the use of ofce space.
This excellence through statutory compliance.
Communications Workers Union CWU, support in total amounted to an estimated We recognise that the Health & Safety the Public and Commercial Services 100,000 in 2002.
During 2002 Alliance & at Work Act and recent Safety Regulations Union PCS and Alliance & Leicester Leicester staff organised a fun day at the Group of Staff ALGUS for collective allocate responsibilities to both managers Groups Carlton Park headquarters.
This and employees within the workplace.
We enjoy good event was well supported by both Group Our Health & Safety Management System relations with these recognised unions and employees and the local community and outlines personal responsibilities for endeavour to involve their representatives raised over 9,000 for local charities Health & Safety at work.
To this end, for example, union and schools.
31 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2002 We have also provided a further 50,000 has been able to demonstrate it meets the of sponsorship to the Leicester Tigers required high standards in the management TAG rugby initiative designed to allow and use of energy as dictated by the young children to learn both team skills Scheme rules at that time.
and basic rugby skills in a fun environment.
Corporate Social Responsibility is a Alliance & Leicester and the Tigers teamed potentially wide-ranging and complex up over two years ago after nding that subject and we are keen to get our strategy less than 10% of all primary schools in right.
Throughout 2002 we have taken Leicester, Leicestershire and Rutland big steps to identify Corporate Social actively participate in the sport.
Responsibility activity being undertaken 2002 also saw Alliance & Leicester support by the Group and to pull together all of that work under a Corporate Social the NSPCCs Change for Kids campaign.
The campaign, which called on the public Responsibility banner.
Over the next year we will carry out further work to identify to hand in spare European currencies at actions we can take to improve matters Alliance & Leicester branches before the further.
introduction of the Euro, resulted in over 1m being raised for the NSPCC.
Our approach, now and in the future as Alliance & Leicester has helped raise over we develop our strategy, is rooted in the In January 2003 Alliance & Leicester was 1m during the past 12 months for the NSPCC belief that Corporate Social Responsibility made a Patron of the NSPCC FULL STOP FULL STOP campaign.
is about businesses committing themselves appeal in recognition of our role in raising to working with their employees and their over 1m for the NSPCC during the past families, the local community and society 12 months.
at large to improve the quality of life.
The Environment Responsibility for the implementation of the Groups environmental policy rests with the Groups Operations Director who is a member of the Group Board and reports to the Group Chief Executive.
We recognise that our actions as a Group can have an effect on the world around us.
We believe that improving environmental performance is sound business practice.
This means that environmental best practice is, wherever reasonably practicable, incorporated into our decision-making processes.
We invest in environmentally friendly and sustainable products and services, minimise energy usage, encourage energy efficiency also by encouraging staff to be environmentally friendly and promote waste minimisation and environmentally friendly waste disposal.
Alliance & Leicester sets objectives aimed at evaluating and managing our impact on the environment.
We benchmark our progress using our membership of the Business in the Environment Index of Corporate Environmental Engagement, and our environmental programme is being developed to ensure further improvements in performance, data availability, environmental management and reporting.
In December 2002, the Institute of Energy confirmed that Alliance & Leicester has been approved for re-accreditation under the Energy efficiency Accreditation Scheme, one of only 10 financial services companies to be accredited.
The Group 32 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Statutory Accounts 33 Directors Remuneration Report 39 Statement of Corporate Governance 42 Directors Responsibilities 43 Auditors Report 44 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 45 Consolidated Balance Sheet 46 Company Balance Sheet 47 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 47 Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds 48 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 49 Notes to the Accounts 77 Supplementary Information 79 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 5 Year Summary 80 Consolidated Balance Sheet 5 Year Summary 81 Shareholder Information
