CUSTOMER SECTOR GROUP REVIEW Carbon Steel Materials Results and July due to a tube failure in a gas re-heating furnace.
Earnings Before Interest and Tax EBIT excluding exceptional Ramp-up to forecast production levels is continuing.
items were US$1084 million, compared with US$918 million in Development activities 2001, an increase of US$166 million or 18 per cent.
Development activities during the year focused on both The underlying business results were enhanced by strong iron greenfield and brownfield projects.
ore sales volumes, improved prices for hard coking coal, weaker Construction commenced on the Dendrobium metallurgical exchange rates for both the Australian dollar and South African coal mine, and the integration of the Blackwater and South rand relative to the US dollar, and a continued focus on cost Blackwater metallurgical coal mines progressed on schedule reduction initiatives.
These favourable impacts were partially offset by production Major iron ore growth projects were approved in April with the cutbacks at Samarco during the year, the temporary closure of the US$213 million 100% terms Mining Area C MAC development Boodarie Iron plant, and lower manganese ore and alloy volumes.
and the US$351 million 100% terms Port and Capacity Markets and operations Expansion PACE project.
In a joint venture agreement, Korean The iron ore market remained strong during the year, with steelmaker POSCO will acquire a 20 per cent interest in the increased demand recorded from Chinese customers.
Hard C Deposit section of MAC.
coking coal pricing was favourably affected by ongoing HSEC reductions in US exports, coupled with steady demand volumes.
Manganese prices and volumes were negatively affected by Regrettably, two fatalities occurred at our operations during increased production from several smaller suppliers.
We are committed to an improved health and safety performance in 2003 as part of our goal of achieving zero harm.
Attributable Western Australian iron ore production was Good progress was made in reducing the risks and number 62.3 million wet tonnes, an increase of 7 per cent.
Production of incidents involving mobile equipment and light vehicles.
of Samarco pellets, pellet feed and sinter fines was 5.6 million In addition, our injury frequency rate reduced significantly, tonnes, a decrease of 25 per cent, due mainly to lower demand compared with the previous period.
A number of environment for pellets.
and community initiatives were successfully implemented in Queensland coal production was 28.4 million tonnes, a decrease areas such as land rehabilitation, emission reduction and dust of 7 per cent.
The lower production was mainly due to the sellmanagement.
Progress also continued towards the achievement down of our interest in the Central Queensland Coal Associates of ISO 14001 certification across all sites, with both the CQCA and Gregory joint ventures in June 2001 to form the BHP Manganese and Western Australian Iron Ore businesses Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance.
Illawarra Coal production was 7.1 million tonnes, an increase Outlook of 8 per cent, resulting in higher sales for the year.
In February Our focus will be on maintaining our competitive position and this year we announced that the Tower mine would close by attractive margins in the face of a challenging global market December 2002. and appreciating currencies.
Key objectives for the year include Manganese alloy production was 619 000 tonnes, a decrease of successfully progressing the MAC, PACE and Dendrobium 4 per cent.
Manganese ore production was 3.5 million tonnes, projects, and participating in growth opportunities in China.
a decrease of 6 per cent, in line with reduced demand for The emphasis on cost reduction will continue through the high-grade ore. Boodarie Iron production was 1047 million Operating Excellence program, as will the delivery of value tonnes.
Production was temporarily suspended between March through the global marketing network.
US$ million Turnover 3 306 EBIT, excluding exceptional items 1 084 Capital and investment expenditure 284 Net operating assets 2 573 Bob Kirkby, President 1 Samancor Manganese South Africa 2 Queensland Coal Australia 3 Boodarie Iron Australia 4 4 GEMCO Australia 8 3 2 1 6 5 Illawarra Coal Australia 5 6 WA Iron Ore Australia 7 7 TEMCO Australia 8 Samarco Brazil 18 We are determined to protect our market position and maintain attractive margins.
Mt Whaleback iron ore mine, Newman, Western Australia Jill Mathieson, Strategic Maintenance Planner Briquetting, Boodarie Iron, Port Hedland, Western Australia 19
