Group Chief Executives review Overview Without doubt, 2002 was a very demanding year.
Worldwide economic uncertainty and falling equity markets contributed to the toughest conditions I have experienced in 30 years in the industry.
Yet we achieved a robust set of results.
We took clear-sighted decisions to ensure we remain financially strong and one of the best-positioned companies in the market.
Aviva is a resilient and disciplined business with excellent prospects.
Group results The testing economic environment inevitably had an impact on our group financial performance.
Under the circumstances, our pre-tax operating profit of 1,798 million 2001: 1,983 million was a good result.
Worldwide long-term savings new business sales held up well, We achieved a despite a loss of customer confidence in equity-backed investments.
Our sales fell by 2% to 14.6 billion 2001: robust set of 15 billion, while life achieved operating profit was 1,524 million 2001: 1,665 million.
We took Our general insurance business has been realigned over the past three years through a clear and consistent strategy of concentrating on more stable personal and selected commercial clear-sighted lines and exiting the more volatile business.
This helped us achieve an excellent operating profit of 959 million 2001: 924 million.
As a measure of how efficiently our business performs, we decisions to ensure achieved a combined operating ratio COR of 101.4%, which is better than our group target.
we remain For the second consecutive year, falling global investment markets resulted in a reduction in shareholders funds, which at 31 December 2002 stood at 9.7 billion 2001: 11.8 billion, financially strong # restated.
Nevertheless, our capital position remains sound, with sufficient earnings to fully support growth in our existing and one of the businesses.
best-positioned companies in the market.
From continuing and discontinued operations.
# Restated for the effect of Financial Reporting Standard 19 06 Aviva plc Deferred Tax.
Annual report accounts 2002 Operating profit before tax million Worldwide business mix billion 1998 1,637 1,856 1998 18.4 1999 1,608 1,824 1999 23.1 2000 1,325 853 2000 26.4 2001 1,935 1,983 2001 27.8 2002 1,720 1,798 2002 27.9 From continuing and discontinued operations, including life achieved operating profit With reference to premium income from continuing operations.
and stated before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items.
General insurance Continuing operations Total long-term business including health Discontinued operations Investing for future growth With long-term savings business generating 72% of our total premiums, and 92% of our new business sales coming from Europe, we regard the development of our European long-term savings operations as the cornerstone of our future success.
There is significant scope for our business to grow further.
Governments across Europe are introducing reforms to encourage people to make increased provision for their retirement and reduce the pressure on state schemes.
In times of financial uncertainty, customers will seek the reassurance and expertise of trusted brands like ours.
We can provide savings products that offer a degree of Short-term outlook capital security or a fixed rate of return for investors wary of falling In common with the rest of the insurance and financial services share prices.
We are also confident that demand for equity-backed industry, we face considerable challenges in the short term.
investments will improve as the markets recover in the medium Investment markets continue to be turbulent and investors are to long term.
We see the planned expansion of the European Union in 2004 as We have to deal with a changing regulatory framework and the an opportunity for our business.
We already have an established need to reduce costs to match the amount of business we expect operation in Poland and smaller businesses in a number of the to write.
We will continue to invest in projects that will enable us other prospective member countries, where greater accessibility to enhance our low cost operating model and reduce our future should encourage foreign investment, stimulate economic growth, cost base.
increase the standard of living and give people more freedom to invest in financial products and services.
The tough environment will test us in many respects throughout 2003.
Even so, I am driving the business hard, using our Among our strengths is the ability to understand our customers experience, size and expertise to provide the right products and and provide what they need through a variety of sales channels, services for our customers in each market.
We have agreed new distribution partnerships in France, the Netherlands, Italy, Spain and Hong Long-term outlook Kong, which will increase our reach through bancassurance alone The opportunities for our business in the longer term remain to some 35 million potential customers worldwide.
People still need to make financial provision for the new operations in India and China, both markets with huge longfuture.
We envisage growth from the strong market positions we term growth potential, and launched a new version of our online have built in our life and pensions business.
Our innovative general fund administration platform, Navigator, in Singapore.
insurance operations have reduced their risk exposure and improved the quality of their earnings.
Furthermore, our capital Being financially flexible enables us to pursue attractive position is a solid foundation to support further growth.
opportunities for the profitable development of our business.
We accepted an unsolicited offer in October 2002 to sell our One of our greatest strengths is the quality of the people who general insurance businesses in Australia and New Zealand for work as a team at the heart of our business.
This was an excellent deal for Avivas shareholders, worldwide have a first-class track record of delivering results, with the price more than twice the net asset value of the and I thank them all for their dedicated efforts.
In the current financial climate, integrity, prudent management and Our cash-generative general insurance operation is an integral part consistent performance are more important than ever.
That is what of the groups business portfolio.
We are the number one general I am determined we shall deliver.
I am confident that the longerinsurer in the UK and Ireland and have top-five positions in term opportunities will allow us to grow our business for the Canada, the Netherlands and Singapore.
Continued investment in benefit of our customers and shareholders alike.
product innovation, for example our Pay As You Drive motor insurance scheme in the UK, and new facilities, such as our call and claims processing operation planned in India, will help us maintain a leadership position in our markets and high levels of customer service 24 hours a day.
Another important development is our new name, Aviva.
Our trading operations now have the strength of an international financial services brand behind them.
We have introduced the new Aviva identity very cost-efficiently, with the rebranding in each country being paid for largely from existing marketing budgets.
Richard Harvey 07 Aviva plc Group Chief Executive Annual report accounts 2002
