BBS00031P Inners2 25 2 03 4:36 pm Page 31 31 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2002 Corporate social responsibility report Bradford & Bingley believes in managing and conducting its business in a socially responsible manner Bradford & Bingleys approach to corporate Community investment Our community investment covers four main eeting social responsibility CSR involves In 2002, Bradford & Bingley invested over areas linked to our business: er with conducting our business in a socially 1 million directly into the community for the to be responsible manner in respect of the third consecutive year.
We aim to support Preventing and alleviating the causes hich environment, our employees, our customers, those local communities in which we live and of homelessness of our shareholders, the local communities and work.
Our programme has been ranked as As a board member of Business Action on 3 will other stakeholders.
45th in the FTSE 100 by the 2002 Guardian Homelessness, Bradford & Bingley is Giving List.
committed to the support of projects the In 2002, we adopted the FORGE Group eradicating the causes of homelessness, market framework for CSR Management and As well as financial support, we also offer the believing that prevention is the best way to Reporting for the Financial Services Sector.
use of our business facilities, such as leasing tackle the social injustice of homelessness.
also The framework is recommended by the out surplus office space to charities, and by British Bankers Association for the financial offering collection account facilities in our Our largest ever community partnership, services industries.
This report follows branches giving charities access to a national consisting of an initial 500,000 mix of their guidelines.
sponsorship and donation over three years, dit Plc saw Bradford & Bingley become the title oming We also recognise the importance of sharing In addition, we encourage our staff to get sponsors of Shelterline, the 24 hour success and best practice, and we are involved.
We support staff fundraising by national freephone helpline run by Shelter.
members of the London Benchmarking Group matching the first 250 of funds raised per In line with our aim of preventing LBG, which measures our community employee.
We also match staff donations homelessness, we are working with Shelter investment programme, and Business in through our payroll-giving programme, Give to explore ways of promoting Shelterline as the Community.
In 2002, charities have received a preventative, rather than as just an an extra 74,000 through this matching emergency helpline.
In 2002, we funded a Through our membership of the LBG, we are scheme.
We also support staff who are direct mail exercise to target 100,000 one of 72 leading companies from the UK, involved in local schools by running households to increase awareness of US and Europe using a consistent model to programmes for school governors and for Shelterlines services.
measure and report on our community reading volunteers.
The LBG model helps us to entering a team of 100 Bradford & Bingley Personal finance and numeracy education improve the management, measurement runners in the Flora London Marathon, in schools and reporting of our programmes.
running for Shelter, the official charity of the By working with Education Extra, the 2003 London Marathon.
out-ofschool hours learning charity, we Steven Crawshaw has been identified as have set up after-school maths clubs in four the Director responsible for overseeing our Local Education Authorities in Yorkshire.
partnership, between business, charity, local government and schools, is helping to improve numeracy standards and is having a positive impact on the general attainment levels of pupils involved in the clubs.
BBS00031P Inners2 25 2 03 4:37 pm Page 32 32 Bradford & Bingley plc 33 Bradfor Annual Report & Accounts Annual Repo for the year ended 31 December 2002 for the year Corporate social responsibility report Disability access to financial services Environment Transport We have As well as being committed to making our In 2002, Bradford & Bingley entered the We have continued to explore Developm products and services easily available to as Business in the Environment Index for the first environmentally friendly travel policies, South Asi many people as possible, we are also time.
Although we were ranked 169th out of and in 2002 we introduced a trial lunchtime Influencer committed to supporting access to financial an index of 192, the Index has helped us bus service for staff from our main office visits help services in general.
In 2002, we produced a identify the structure needed to improve our in Crossflatts, Yorkshire to the surrounding Bradford braille version of Money Matters in environmental management procedures, and communities.
given to in association with the Royal National Institute we expect to improve in the 2003 Index.
the Asian for the Blind, giving general financial advice Workplace and information.
We also consider environmental issues in our Bradford & Bingley employs people across the A program community investment programme: whole of the UK and is committed to equality been pilot We provide customers with literature in across all aspects of working life.
We recognise rolled out alternative formats, such as braille, audio Investing in sustainable housebuilding the importance of sharing best practice and large print, and in conjunction with techniques and success, and so we are members of Since 199 Royal National Institute for the Deaf In partnership with Berwickshire Housing Opportunity Now and Race for Opportunity.
symbol aw RNID we provide sign language and Association, we have created the Bradford Both of these organisations look at ways to demonstr manual interpreting services.
We also offer & Bingley House in Ayton, Berwickshire.
The promote gender and race equality within the practice in Typetalk services through our partnership design of this house explores and utilises workplace.
We support the 30 Articles of the our comm with RNID.
many new environmentally sustainable United Nations Universal Declaration of potential housing techniques, including an internal Human Rights as applied to the workplace.
basis with Social regeneration through our work solar water-heating panel, the first of its kind of the Em with Housing Associations in the UK.
Women occupy 35% of management roles, Bradford & Bingley is a leading lender to and over time we have increased the number The Grou Housing Associations.
We work with over Energy, water, solid waste & recycling of female senior managers.
We have two to staff tra 100 Housing Associations who manage over As part of our ongoing environmental female Directors on the Board, our Group range of t 75,000 rented homes.
Together we identify management process, we have targeted a Finance Director, Rosemary Thorne and programm areas that would benefit from partnership reduction in our energy consumption and Non-executive Director, Diana Courtney.
managem regeneration projects, such as community impact.
In 2002, we achieved a 28% spend per buildings or new playground facilities.
reduction in energy consumption across the Group.
Water consumption fell by 8%, We recog but our solid waste increased by 11%.
We organisatio continue to implement measures to reduce valued.
As energy and water consumption, and we amongst a aim to introduce formal environmental surveys, e management systems to reduce waste the oppor and paper usage.
BBS00031P Inners2 25 2 03 3:05 pm Page 33 33 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2002 We have worked with Quest for Economic monthly survey each year.
We also encourage derived from criminal activity to give them Development, an organisation supporting the feedback via our intranet and communicate legal respectability.
Bradford & Bingley is cies, South Asian community within the UK, to hold issues that are raised across the Group.
obliged under existing anti-money unchtime InfluencersVisits at our major locations.
These laundering and anti-terrorist legislation to office visits help raise the awareness of careers at 3,428 staff 54% have chosen to participate ensure that all employees understand and ounding Bradford & Bingley and support material is in the Sharesave Scheme, enabling employees comply with their obligations in respect of given to influencers to provide information to to save to buy Bradford & Bingley shares.
money laundering prevention and detection.
During 2002, we have developed a formal We have put in place policies, procedures cross the A programme of community awareness has Occupational Safety & Health Management and controls that cover: o equality been piloted to senior executives and is being System that will be used to form the basis of recognise rolled out to middle management.
future evaluation of our occupational health & Internal communication ce safety profile.
Internal controls of Since 1995 we have held the Two Ticks Identification procedures portunity.
symbol awarded by the Employment Service, Our Human Risk policy statement has been Record keeping ways to demonstrating our commitment to best updated for 2002 and Steven Crawshaw has Recognition and reporting of suspicious thin the practice in employing disabled people and been identified as the Board Director procedures es of the our commitment to developing the full responsible for championing good Health & Staff training n of potential of disabled employees on an equal Safety policies throughout the Group.
We are also a member All customer facing staff take part in of the Employers Forum on Disability.
The external marketplace money laundering training on at least an t roles, Products annual basis.
Our Group Fraud Management number The Group has demonstrated its commitment During 2002, we introduced an increasing Department provides assistance and two to staff training and development with a full range of ethical investment products to our support to the National Criminal Group range of training and accreditation customers.
As Independent Financial Intelligence Services.
nd programmes in both technical and general Advisers, we are able to search the market tney.
management areas, doubling the average to find the best products for our customers.
spend per employee on training in 2002.
Our Housing Finance teams have continued We recognise that all staff have a voice in our to lend to Housing Associations, enabling organisation, and feedback is encouraged and the regeneration of housing stock to take valued.
As well as an annual opinion survey place across the UK.
amongst all staff, we carry out monthly surveys, ensuring every staff member is given Money laundering the opportunity to take part in at least one Money laundering is the disguising of funds
