10 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2002 Report of the Board on Corporate Social Responsibility At Cattles, we believe that people much finances.
To help address this issue we prefer dealing with people rather than are supporting two charities, Credit with remote organisations.
Action and DebtCred, both of which Consequently, much of our business is provide financial literacy and money centred on having a strong presence in management education for school local communities serving over 700,000 leavers.
customers in the areas where they live.
It follows, therefore, that corporate We are particularly keen to help in social responsibility in local deprived communities and, working communities is important to us.
with these charities, our objective is to The trust constantly witnesses provide basic money management improvements in the childrens Cattles is an active Gold Supporter of training and to produce and circulate a behaviour, mobility, speech and Leeds Cares, which is one of the booklet entitled Better Money confidence, not to mention the sheer Yorkshire employee volunteering Management Guide for Young enjoyment which comes from their close initiatives of Business in the Community Singles, an essential guide aimed at contact with donkeys.
Our Chief Executive, Sen those who are starting to handle money appalling weather conditions during the Mahon is chairman of Leeds Cares and for themselves for the first time.
This building process, the Cattles team a member of the National Cares booklet will form part of a series of pulled together, proving that it is possible Leadership Team.
Leeds was the first publications looking at money to move mountains with good Cares movement to be founded in the management and in the first two years teamwork, communication and UK which is now established in 22 other of this initiative, we aim to engage with enthusiasm.
partnership with Cares has underpinned Cattles involvement in the local In support of locally disadvantaged Protecting our Environment community in several areas.
children, a team of volunteers from across a wide range of group functions, Our business is focused on building Our principal areas of focus during 2002 rolled up their collective sleeves to build long term relationships with our have included many causes including an outdoor recreational area at the customers and it is important that we financial literacy for school leavers, Elizabeth Svensden Trust for Children ensure we treat our environment with involvement in local education and Donkeys based in Eccup, West this same long term approach and initiatives, supporting disadvantaged Yorkshire.
The trust works incredibly respect.
With a workforce of over children, helping the homeless and hard to improve the quality of life for 6,000 people within the Cattles group, providing basic computer training for disabled and special needs children by almost everything we do in our daily the elderly.
promoting what the trust likes to work impacts in some way on the describe as donkey therapy.
Many of us use our cars We believe that many adults would riding in the indoor arena, and carriage as part of our daily routine and we all avoid financial difficulties if they had riding in the specially adapted trailer for consume light, heat, water and paper been given appropriate guidance and wheelchairs, are just two of the activities as well as generating considerable training at school or college on how to the trust oversees with the aid of many waste, all of which has to be budget and manage their personal willing volunteers.
Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2002 11 We have, therefore, identified the key Supporting our People aspects of our business, which can be altered and improved to minimise any The Cattles group business is very adverse environmental impact.
To much a peoples business for both our ensure that all the groups operations employees and our customers.
exceed current environmental Successful relationships with our legislation, performance enhancing customers can only be maintained if our targets and objectives have been personnel are appropriately trained, developed and we are looking at motivated and really enjoy what they do.
appropriate measurement methods and initiatives to deliver improvement.
The groups employment policies and procedures are regularly reviewed to The groups intranet provides our fleet ensure that they provide a positive and car drivers with helpful information, such supportive environment for our as CO emissions, to enable them to employees.
During the last year, we 2 make an informed choice when have taken significant steps to choosing a new company car and to harmonise employment terms and provide them with advice for safe and conditions across the group to help secure driving.
Drivers are required to create greater consistency of reward in maintain vehicle efficiency with regular each of our businesses.
We have a servicing through approved garages strong reward culture and employees and all drivers are trained or retrained participate in a variety of incentive within a four year cycle using schemes, including share schemes, AcciDONT, a specialist driver training which Cattles has operated for a organisation.
Video conferencing has number of years.
recently been introduced at strategic locations to minimise employee car We place much importance on training, journeys and we shall continue to career development and health and As a member of BiTC we are keen to identify further opportunities for safety, with all new employees attending develop our systems for managing, reducing fleet CO emissions.
an internally run induction course.
We measuring and reporting the impact of 2 also believe in the importance of good our actions on our local communities An IT hardware recycling initiative has internal communication and feedback.
This will include been established across the group to These comprise regular performance setting targets, implementing initiatives ensure that all decommissioned and appraisals, an annual employee attitude to develop our understanding of the redundant IT equipment is identified survey, video CD Rom briefings, focus relationship between our business and either for recycling suitability or groups and Directors questions and society and increasing the dialogue with specialist disposal in the most effective answers sessions, together with annual our employees and other stakeholders environmental manner.
Paper waste conferences for all our branch, area and to assess their expectations and arising from two of our main locations in regional management teams.
Yorkshire is now delivered into the recycle chain to reduce the level of our Our local communities, our environment waste sent to landfill sites.
Future Initiatives and our people are key to our continued success and will remain at the heart of Participation by these locations in the We recognise the importance of what we do.
BiTC regional Green Index has corporate social responsibility and highlighted our successes so far, with protecting the environment.
This reductions of 9% being achieved in our requires a process of continuous output of solid waste, 10% awareness and improvement improvement in our energy throughout the group, under the direct consumption and a creditable 38% responsibility of the Chief Executive.
Our reduction in our white paper usage.
We objectives are to raise awareness of Patrick Doherty are seeking to make further these issues and encourage Company Secretary improvements through procurement commitment from all our employees 6 March 2003 where we look to place business with and other stakeholders.
Whilst we organisations that operate active already have a number of initiatives in environmental policies.
place, we are only too aware of the need to do more throughout our business.
