Safety, health and the environment Overall safety performance The BOC Group takes its safety, health and environmental responsibilities seriously, and strives in all its business dealings to operate safe working practices, eliminate incidents and to ensure 2001 2002 Improvement it causes no harm to people or the environment.
The Groups commitment on this front is Lost workday best illustrated by the breadth of measures taken to equip employees with training and the case rate 0.40 0.37 8% appropriate tools.
Total recordable A dedicated Safety, Health, Environment and Quality SHEQ department ensures the Group case rate 0.92 0.76 17% has a deliverable policy, is proactive in its risk assessment and professional in its remediation.
Passenger car avoidable BOC has well-established programmes governing SHEQ performance.
These standards and accident rate 2.14 1.72 20% procedures are already firmly embedded in the Groups global Integrated Management Systems Truck and Standards IMSS database.
IMSS disseminates the Groups SHEQ policies through the BOC avoidable accident rate 2.15 2.13 1% intranet, outlining the minimum standards and actions needed to align with or conform to ISO 9000 quality assurance, ISO 14001 environmental and ISO 18001 health and safety management systems as well as the International Safety Rating Systems ISRS.
Lost workday case rate The management of safety and environmental performance is measured in the same way as are other key business parameters.
Indeed, the pursuit of rigorous safety and environmental 0.7 measurement procedures in recent years has contributed significantly to an improvement in the 0.6 Groups overall business performance.
As a result, BOC has improved efficiency with a reduced 0.5 accident rate, fewer lost workdays, a greater recycling take-up, better energy conservation and less waste from the Groups production and distribution processes.
0.4 0.3 Safety 0.2 BOC manufactures and distributes some products that are potentially hazardous, being stored at very low temperature or under pressure, with some exhibiting toxic or flammable properties.
0.1 BOC is committed to practising and communicating safe operations around the world as part of 098990001 02 its commitment to robust product stewardship.
It is as important for the Group to transmit safe working methodologies to customers and suppliers as it is to have clear, entrenched and Total recordable case rate measurable performance standards practised by all BOC plants, depots and distributors, regardless of plant, product or service.
1.6 Each business unit in each region has a safety function, which is aligned with the units business activities and connected to the Groups other safety functions by a peer group network.
1.2 This ensures that global best practice and the business functional requirements are always at the forefront.
0.8 Controlling process-related risks is of the utmost importance.
Any incidents that do occur are thoroughly investigated and the lessons learned applied throughout the organisation to minimise the likelihood of recurrence.
Safety lessons are shared throughout the gases industry and BOC 0.4 continues to participate fully in the development and application of industry-wide codes.
BOC has instigated a five-year plan to halve the Groups accident rate.
A five-year strategy has 098990001 02 been developed to enable these overall goals to be achieved and this strategy has been cascaded to regional businesses for local input.
The main items underpinning the strategy are implementing, communicating, measuring and reporting best practice as well as training, competence and behavioural management systems.
Training and competence of BOC employees is continually improving as the Groups IMSS package is rolled out globally, ensuring best practice is applied within all businesses.
As part of its five-year strategy, BOC is implementing a behavioural safety programme to improve significantly safety performance across the organisation.
This programme will look at subjects such as management leadership in safety and the safety behaviour of individuals.
Significant improvements were recorded across all of the Groups key safety performance indicators with good results in the reduction of total recordable incidents and passenger car accidents.
As in every year, BOC takes steps to prevent and address the underlying causes of serious accidents as well as to ensure employee security in the workplace.
The Group uses four principal indicators to provide a consistent measure of its workplace and vehicle safety performance.
These are: Lost Workday Case Rate LWCR per 200,000 hours.
This includes all accidents resulting in the loss of one complete day of work, according to best international practice.
Many companies only report cases resulting in three or more lost workdays as deemed reportable under RIDDOR regulations.
Total Recordable Case Rate TRCR per 200,000 hours.
This includes all LWCs and medical treatment cases.
Passenger Car Avoidable Accident Rate PCAAR per million miles.
Truck Avoidable Accident Rate TAAR per million miles.
25 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002 Safety, health and the environment Occupational health and hygiene Passenger car avoidable BOC requires its businesses around the world to manage employee health activities in accordance accidents per million miles with local laws and regulations and according to BOCs own codes of practice.
The Groups occupational health and hygiene activities continue to provide a global service, striving to eradicate 3 the organisations work-related health hazards and in addition, ensure that those who travel internationally on Group business are properly protected against disease and that the medical requirements of visas and work permits are met.
2 A wellness programme in the UK continues to deliver benefits, due largely to the identification and treatment of high cholesterol and blood pressure amongst employees.
A global approach to minimising employee health risks from our operations is now being 1 pursued through the Group occupational hygiene function which has been incorporated into the Group SHEQ departmental responsibilities.
The strategy has been to ensure all operations are reviewed for health risks and appropriate preventative measures and programmes are standardised 098990001 02 and applied across the Group as best practice initiatives.
Access to global guidance on occupational hygiene, together with manuals, training videos and Truck avoidable accidents safety data sheets, is available on a dedicated intranet site.
per million miles Jeff Elphick, Group occupational hygiene manager, is President of the British Occupational Hygiene Society for 2002 3 and is Chief Examiner for the profession.
5 The environment 4 Although classified in the chemicals sector, BOC does not have the same direct or significant environmental issues to deal with as traditional chemicals manufacturers.
The nature of BOCs 3 activities and the type of chemicals handled are quite different.
However, in line with other 2 industries, BOC has a commitment to the conscientious stewardship of its products and services.
Management of environmental issues that are relevant to the Groups businesses are overseen 1 by the SHEQ department operating at global and local business unit level.
Group environmental strategies have continued to help to improve business performance in sites across the world.
098990001 02 Many BOC business units have programmes to achieve ISO 14001 environmental certification.
The Group has 30 sites in different lines of business certified to this standard ranging from BOCs Ozone depleting potential air separation unit at Jamshedphur in India, operations at Barbosa in Venezuela, which gained ISO Tonnes released 14001 in 2001, in Mexico, at the site of the largest nitrogen plant in the world, as well as the site 30 at Gebze in Turkey which gained the first integrated ISO 14001 and ISO 9000:2000 certification in that country.
25 The SHEQ department which oversees Group interests and performance continues to 20 pursue a programme to integrate environmental performance goals into BOCs management performance contracts and develop global best environmental operating practices.
A global 15 environment working group was set up this year to develop these practices in areas such as 10 waste and environmental management.
The environment working group implemented new communications to manage the structured transfer of best practice and a five-year strategic plan.
5 BOC has operated a comprehensive environmental survey programme of its sites for over 098990001 02 ten years.
The annual survey highlights issues relevant to the business and assesses how well they are being managed.
Objectives for improved performance remain an integral part of business performance contracts.
The transport of product by road has a potentially significant environmental impact.
BOC operates its vehicle fleet to the highest environmental standards.
The UK businesses, which operate 2,000 large delivery vehicles, implemented a fuel efficiency programme that led to an annual saving of more than 340,000 in fuel consumption costs and a significant reduction in carbon dioxide emissions.
BOCs commitment to environmental stewardship and partnership is shown in its approach to new plants, facilities and services.
For example, due to the rapid growth in worldwide demand for natural refrigerants, the distribution network of our range of hydrocarbons was extended to the Philippines, Malaysia and Thailand this year.
East Asia is a key market for air conditioning and refrigeration with users eager to extend their range of solutions that minimise industrys contribution to global warming.
Also, BOCs hospitals business in South Africa undertook a wide-ranging energy review programme focusing on efficient site water utilisation, space heating, steam production, air conditioning and energy load management systems.
One outcome of this programme was the installation of solar panels at the Brenthurst hospital to assess and implement alternative renewable energy sources.
26 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002 BOC aims to comply fully with all material environmental laws and regulations.
No fines or Non-compliances violation of laws, complaints prosecutions for breach of any environmental regulation were incurred and BOC was compliant and spillages with external standards, but did not comply with all internal codes or practices.
sites reporting incidents The US Environmental Protection Agency has named The BOC Group Inc as a potentially 125 responsible party for clean-up costs at a number of hazardous waste sites.
Although liability for the remediation of such sites may be legally imposed without regard to the quantity of waste 100 contributed, based upon the information available management believes that it is unlikely that any costs incurred will be material to the Group.
75 BOC continues to contribute technology and processes to meet the environmental needs of customers who are striving to improve their own environmental performance.
The increase in the 50 demands set by environmental legislation also presents BOC with a number of potential business opportunities.
BOCs eco-efficiency technologies include the Vitox oxygen injection system, which 25 improves water quality and can, for instance, help fish farmers improve production rates.
BOC 098990001 02 has also patented systems to recover carbon dioxide from other companies productive processes and put it to constructive use.
For example, carbon dioxide is infused in drip-irrigation water or Hazardous waste used to enrich atmospheres to enhance crop growth.
The glass and metals industries use BOCs variability in national legal classification oxy-fuel burners to increase the efficiency of combustion, using less fuel and reducing polluting Tonnes x 1,000 emissions.
BOC also installed its first Burnjector technology in Australia for the leading manufacturer of steel products at its steel scrap recycling plant.
The BOC-patented Burnjector 20 is an oxy-fuel burner, oxygen lance and chemical reactor system.
The Burnjector system enhances the energy efficiency, productivity, environmental performance and safety of the 15 electric arc furnace.
BOC continues to develop technology that is more energy efficient, which helps to support 10 customers and partners meet their carbon dioxide emission reduction commitments under the Kyoto protocol on climate change.
In 2002, BOC launched a mobile oxygen barge in Shanghai, 5 China, to help in the rehabilitation of the most polluted stretch of river in China, Suzhou Creek an excellent example of BOCs commitment to delivering global environmental solutions.
0 98 99 00 01 02 The Group continues to work actively with its stakeholders customers, suppliers, employees, investors, local communities and governments to ensure environmental issues are approached responsibly and supported actively.
BOC sponsored the second BOC Environment Award at the General waste disposal 2002 Institute of Chemical Engineers annual award ceremony in September.
The award was given to Total 84,120 tonnes Phillips Petroleums project to decommission the oil production platform Maureen, which was 1 Incinerated 1 2 refloated, towed to safety, cleaned, deconstructed and the parts reused or recycled a first under 2 Landfilled new UK environmental laws.
3 Recycled Underlining the Groups adherence to sound, internationally attested environmental practices, BOC is a signatory to the UNs Global Compact in support of human rights, labour and environmental principles.
The continuing importance of global compliance, corporate social 3 responsibility and sustainability amongst BOCs wider stakeholders means that BOC has continued to review and adapt its business practices appropriately by reviewing policies, training and implementation programmes and processes.
In Europe and the Americas, BOC supports the chemical industrys Responsible Care programme.
BOC also continues to participate in the Business in the Environment survey for the UK.
This year the Group improved its overall Types of general waste survey score achieving 76 per cent against 71 per cent in 2001.
Total 84,120 tonnes 1 Garbage The BOC Foundation for the Environment 51 2 Glass The UK-based BOC Foundation for the Environment, which was established with an initial 4 3 Metals injection of 1 million in 1990, has so far supported more than 110 projects focusing on waste 4 Paper and card management, water quality and pollution control.
Since the Foundations inception BOC has 5 Plastic donated 3.5 million.
This year the company contributed 214,000 to Foundation projects, bringing the combined funding for projects from BOC and its co-sponsoring partners to more 3 than 11 million since 1990.
2 27 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002
