20 Environmental and social performance We believe our business should benefit society and the management systems drive continuous performance environment.
We strive to understand all impacts of our improvement on the number of oil spills of more than one activities, positive and negative, and with this knowledge barrel, which reduced from 810 in 2001 to 742 last year seek opportunities that maximize value for all our stakeholders.
Our own shipping fleet transports Our five business policies guide our actions.
These cover significant volumes of oil, gas and chemicals around the world.
health, safety and environment: employees: relationships: We are undertaking a fleet replacement programme that ethical conduct: and finance.
They inform every decision should see 16 modern double-hulled vessels delivered by the made by every employee.
Each individual in the company is end of 2003, with a further 19 confirmed for 2004 onwards.
required to comply: our partners, suppliers and contractors Where we charter additional vessels, they are vetted prior to are encouraged to adopt them.
We believe there is no tradeuse to ensure they meet our rigorous operational standards.
off between high standards and high performance.
In 2002, we announced a new approach on climate change that received favourable reactions from many Dealing with risks expert organizations worldwide.
Having already lowered Doing business in environmentally and socially sensitive our emissions by 10%, we are now committed, through areas demands effective processes and controls.
Our risk combinations of energy efficiency, flaring reductions and management processes analyse a range of impacts, whether lower-carbon products, to maintain our net emissions at these local, national or global, including the effects our operations reduced levels over the next decade.
We are pleased to report may have on specific communities.
that, on a like-for-like basis to take into account the effect of Accountability for managing our social and environmental acquisitions and divestments, our net emissions reduction impact is written into business managers individual for 2002 was 0.3 million tonnes.
This is in line with our new performance contracts.
These contain specific objectives target.
This result was primarily achieved through substantial and firm deadlines for delivery during the year.
cuts in flaring and venting, generating over 1.8 million tonnes of sustainable emission reductions, offsetting organic growth Health, safety and environmental performance of 1.5 million tonnes.
Including acquisitions and divestments, Increasing standards of safety at work is of the highest priority of which Veba contributed 4.1 million tonnes, greenhouse gas and is essential to the wellbeing of our workforce.
Every emissions of the group were 82.4 million tonnes for the year.
facility aims to apply health, safety and environmental systems BP recognizes the need to protect and conserve the rigorously.
These are implemented by all staff and verified biodiversity of our planet.
A review of operations following our through regular and extensive audits and assurance processes.
undertaking prior to the AGM last year confirmed that, during In 2002, we more than met our target of reducing the number 2002, no decisions were made to explore or develop in areas of accidents that cause injury a 23% improvement compared designated by the World Conservation Union IUCN as with 2001, giving us again one of the best safety records in conservation management categories I-IV.
Descriptions of our the industry.
Safety audits, leadership training and formal risk assessments supporting future decisions will be reported incident investigations contributed to this improvement.
in the BP Environmental and Social Review 2002 see page 40.
Although the total number of major incidents declined, We are working closely with the IUCN to develop a consistent we regret to report three employee and 10 contractor deaths approach to the identification and designation of protected at work in 2002, compared with 16 deaths in 2001.
We are areas, which we will respect wherever we operate.
In many determined to continue to make progress towards our goal of locations, our biodiversity action plans have stimulated much zero fatalities.
All executives have explicit safety improvement local stakeholder engagement and innovative solutions to objectives that form part of their remuneration.
One key preserve natural habitats for flora and fauna.
objective for 2002, to establish BPs new Golden Rules of Safety, has been completed across all our businesses.
Employees Oil spills at sea or on land remain a key environmental risk As a global group with operations in many of the worlds for our industry.
Our independently certified environmental developing countries, in 2002 we gave the employment and development of local staff an important focus.
Programmes Long-term improvement in safety in countries such as China, Vietnam, Trinidad and Angola have a performance DAFWCF 1987-2002 ensured that our workforce is increasingly composed of locally 1.8 based employees.
The experience of both local and expatriate 1.2 staff is helping each develop skills that can contribute to the successful future of our operations and the community.
0.6 With a global workforce, our leadership should reflect the diversity within our organization and recruitment intake.
0 Through continuous review of our development processes, 1987 1992 1997 2002 a Days away from work case frequency DAFWCF is the annual frequency we again increased the proportion of our senior leaders who per 200,000 hours of injuries or illnesses that result in a person employee are female or of non-UK or non-US nationality.
or contractor being unable to work for a day shift or more.
Excludes data Our First Level Leaders programme, piloted in 2001 for Veba employees and contractors and Castrol contractors.
and successfully introduced in 2002, is an important step in BP 2002 Environmental and social performance 21 and political impacts of this disease.
We are also involved in Employee profile by gender and nationality % a the World Banks Extractive Industries Review and the UN senior management 2002 Global Compact.
a senior management At the 2002 World Summit for Sustainable Development, 2001 a BP delegation took part in discussions concerning the use university recruits 2002 of energy in society.
It was agreed that secure and affordable university recruits energy services were needed to support social and economic 2001 development in poorer developing countries without producing 04 200 60 80 100 environmental degradation.
We are now exploring how we can male female UK US non-UK US participate in various initiatives and partnerships that emerged a Senior management includes the top 622 positions in BP.
We continue to confront the challenges of implementing ensuring that this trend continues.
Developing the skills of international standards of human rights.
In 2002, we engaged front-line leaders within a supportive network of colleagues, with a wide variety of NGOs and civil society organizations it is run in 29 countries.
More than 4,500 people attended the that on a global or local level are devoted to the promotion programme in 2002, with similar numbers expected in 2003. and protection of human rights.
We have further contributed We have expanded employee ownership schemes, to the progress of the Voluntary Principles on Security and including 17 new countries for our ShareMatch scheme Human Rights, an international initiative for companies in through which we match BP shares bought by employees.
the extractive sector, which is now supported by some We now have employee share plans in 77 countries and have governments as well as by leading human rights NGOs.
received several external awards for them.
It is BPs policy to ensure equal opportunity in recruitment, Ethical conduct promotion, career development, training and reward for all We expect our staff to act according to the highest employees, including those with disabilities.
All applicants and standards of ethical behaviour.
This is reinforced through employees are assessed against clear criteria related to job an annual process and through policy development, training requirements.
Where existing employees become disabled, and actions that uphold our standards, including disciplinary it is BPs policy to provide continuing employment and training measures.
During 2002, 132 people were dismissed for wherever practicable.
unethical behaviour, including fraud, conflict of interest and We use a range of media to communicate systematically internet abuse.
with employees, including a global magazine, an intranet, In 2002, we strengthened our anti-corruption stance e-mails to groups of staff selected by seniority or region and, by prohibiting facilitation payments and by identifying and most importantly, face-to-face communication.
Team meetings correcting areas of non-compliance.
We decided to stop are the core of our consultation with employees worldwide, making corporate political contributions anywhere in the world complemented by formal consultation processes through from April 2002.
During the first quarter of the year, group works councils in parts of Europe.
All these media, along companies made contributions totalling $220,100 to North with training programmes, enhance awareness of financial American political parties and candidates: since then, we and economic factors affecting BPs performance.
have made no further corporate political contributions.
In 2002, we again made no donations to any UK or other Relationships EU political parties or organizations.
We believe that long-term relationships, founded on trust We increased the emphasis on ethical behaviour and mutual advantage, are vital to BPs business success.
Eight regional ethics committees were Our business operations involve us in many relationships with established and more than 500 ethics workshops run investors, non-governmental organizations NGOs, customers, worldwide.
Two on-line ethics modules for employees suppliers, communities, governments and employees.
were introduced and local case studies developed to During the year, we continued with our stakeholder share best practice.
We are making it easier for staff to consultation process in Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey in order raise in confidence their concerns about any aspect of to understand the concerns and aspirations of people affected the business, including safety, the environment and finance.
Their feedback is vital to the This process, starting in 2003, is being overseen by success of our business in the Caspian region and a number ombudsmen in each region.
of their suggestions and recommended actions have already Every year, those in positions of responsibility are asked been implemented.
to attest that their personal behaviour and the actions of In dealing with broader issues that affect our business, their teams comply with our ethical conduct policy.
We we look to join partnerships, coalitions and alliances.
For significantly enhanced this process last year to encourage example, in 2002 we joined the Global Business Coalition on open discussion and sharing of ethical issues, which we HIV AIDS, a partnership between governments, companies believe will contribute to continuous improvement in the and NGOs.
It aims to tackle the growing social, economic way we do business.
