18 03 03 30 32 tp 25 3 03 5:13 pm Page 30 30 30 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We are committed to applying high standards of environmental and social responsibility to every area of our business.
by our business operations, our greatest positive impact is made indirectly through responsible investing and this has two main strands.
First, customers who choose to invest in our Stewardship range of products can making a be confident that their money will only be invested in companies that have been screened by an independent Committee of Reference to ensure that they benefit the world and its people and keep their negative impacts low.
Stewardship was the first retail fund of this kind launched in the UK in 1984 difference and we remain the market leader, managing approximately 1 billion of such investments.
Even more significant is reo, which stands for responsible engagement overlay, a stateLast year we described the in-depth review control to verify our approach to key of-the-art system developed and operated we had undertaken to refresh our approach CSR-related business risks and to provide by our Asset Management business to help assurance to the Board that these risks to corporate social responsibility CSR and companies in which we invest bring about are being properly identied, assessed and set out our objectives and targets for 2002. positive change.
Through reo, our team managed at all levels throughout the Group.
This report provides a summary of our of twelve experts engage with companies on progress in 2002 and our performance against issues such as corporate social responsibility Using our staff intranet, we commenced those objectives.
A full CSR report is available and governance, environmental management an internal programme of communication on our website at www.
com and reporting, climate change, sustainable to train and educate our staff, including along with our business principles and policies.
forestry, labour standards, bribery and advice on ways they can help the environment corruption and human rights.
Our system for managing CSR has while at work or at home.
This programme been further developed during 2002.
The also aims to align local initiatives with our reo is applied to nearly all the equity director responsible for CSR issues chairs a corporate objectives.
We continue to advocate investments made on behalf of the customers Group-wide CSR Steering Committee whose CSR more widely through our support for of our Life & Pensions business.
From 2002, membership comprises senior managers from quarterly reports are produced detailing reo the United Nations Environment Programme across the Group, including the full-time CSR activity and case studies are available via and by subscribing to the London Principles.
Roles and responsibilities have been our Asset Management businesss website: clearly dened and CSR performance targets Socially Responsible Investment www.
We also exercise our are routinely set and reviewed annually.
We While we work hard to reduce any negative considerable inuence as a major shareholder also have enhanced our system of internal environmental impacts that may be caused in many companies by using our votes FRIENDS PROVIDENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 31 to encourage companies to adopt effective in an initiative called Future Citizens, making a corporate governance practice.
An analysis promoting citizenship to 11-14 year-old of our voting record is also included in the students across the country as part of the positive impact reo reports.
new curriculum for secondary schools.
Through our Volunteer Reading Scheme, In 2002 we launched the Stewardship our staff are given time to visit schools to International Fund, a medium high risk help 5-11 year-olds develop their reading ethical fund, providing an opportunity to skills.
Through Partners in Leadership, invest in companies in global markets whose we match senior managers to local head operations make a positive contribution to teachers for their mutual development.
Companies that appear to be harming Through our sponsorship of Southampton the world, its people and its wildlife are screened out.
Football Club we continue to run the Friends Provident Fair Play Awards and in 2002 have Marketplace supported a new initiative, Racism Just Aint In February 2002 we were accredited under Saintly with Southampton FC and Southampton the Raising Standards quality mark scheme, City Council to tackle the ongoing challenge recognising the quality of our customer to keep racism out of football.
service and the clarity of our product Workplace literature.
Checking the CSR credentials The culture we have created for our of our key suppliers continues to be our Ethical principles have people made us one of the Sunday practice.
For example, earlier in the year Times Best Companies to Work For in been at the heart of we identied an opportunity to signicantly 2001 and 2002 and this year, one of increase the proportion of paper we use with our business since its the 50 Best Workplaces in the UK.
While a 50% recycled content: our paper is already ensuring that the needs of our customers 84% total chlorine free, the remainder being foundation.
This long come first, we help our people optimise elemental chlorine free.
However, we deferred their worklife balance through homeworking, placing the order with the supplier until running commitment to term-time working, job sharing and a exible they achieved ISO 14001 accreditation.
corporate responsibility approach to when and how they work their Community 35-hour average week.
We are an equal differentiates our Our main charitable giving is channelled opportunities employer and our workforce through the Friends Provident Charitable is broadly representative of the gender and business from others.
Foundation, a charity with wide grantethnic demographics of the areas in which making powers.
We also seek to build we operate.
At our four main sites and six relationships in the communities local of our thirteen smaller sites, and without to our ofces.
We partner Barnardos any form of positive discrimination, the 18 03 03 30 32 tp 25 3 03 5:17 pm Page 32 32 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE AGAINST 2002 OBJECTIVES TARGETS AND 2003 TARGETS TARGET ACHIEVED TARGET NOT ACHIEVED Area Objective 2002 Targets 2003 Targets CSR Management Further develop our management system Development of internal verification process Improve BitC CR Index Management Score System Finalise CSR corporate governance structure Increase Business in the Environment index of corporate environmental management score Socially Responsible Use our influence to protect and enhance Achieve 25 significant reo successes Achieve 32 significant reo successes Investment the wider environment For the UK companies we invest in, we will always Continue to vote 100% of shares held in the UK 100% exercise our right to vote.
companies we invest in Property Portfolio Manage the risks and reduce the impacts Increase the Property Environment Group Business Achieve top 3 placing in peer group in the Property associated with our property portfolio in the Environment overall benchmark score by 5% Environment Group Business in the Environment benchmark Suppliers Work with suppliers to improve the social and Enhance procurement procedure Enhance procurement procedure environmental performance of our supply chain  is applied toall Commence programme of improving the priority suppliers performance of the products services we buy Emissions Reduce the consumption of energy and the Reduce CO emissions associated with energy Reduce CO emissions associated with energy 2 2 environmental impact of inter-office travel use by 80% at targeted sites use by 3% at targeted sites Extend existing measure toinclude all sites Promote alternatives to inter-office travel Develop a Green Travel Policy Waste Reduce waste generation at our operations and Further increase % of waste recycled by 1% Establish an aggregate measure of waste generated promote recycling and re-use.
Seek to avoid Introduce measures to reduce paper consumption by 1% by our operations the use of substances that may cause harm Remove all Halon 1301.
Introduce measures to reduce paper consumption to the environment Remove 100% of Halon 1301 over three years Charitable Giving Increase staff involvement in Increase percentage of staff participating in GAYE community investment to10% Turnover & Continue to manage the downward trend Staff turnover not to exceed 11%.
Absenteeism in staff turnover and absenteeism Absenteeism not to exceed 2.8% of working time Diversity Mirror the ethnic mix of the communities Continue to mirror the ethnic mix of the communities from which we draw our employees from which we draw our employees percentage of our staff from a minority Based on DEFRA Department for Environment, was 34.8 litres per employee each day ethnic group is higher than in the local Food and Rural Affairs guidelines, emissions 36.8 litres employee day in 2001 community.
We promote diversity through from gas and electricity at our Head Ofce sites and our aim is to reduce this consumption Business in the Communitys Opportunity amounted to 5,650 tonnes CO in 2002 7,275 further through the continued operation of 2 Now and the Equal Pay Commission and tonnes CO 2001.
From October 2002, and good housekeeping measures.
We produced 2 we maintain a close relationship with the at no additional cost to our shareholders, we 910 tonnes of waste in 2002 1,030 in 2001 trade union, Amicus, when dealing with negotiated contracts to supply the majority of which 32.4% 29.6% in 2001, mainly employee-related business issues.
of our electricity from renewable sources for paper and plastic cups, was recycled.
the next two years, which will reduce our total We continue to provide our staff with Ethical principles have been at the heart energy-related emissions in 2003 even further.
the opportunity to participate in a final of our business since its foundation in 1832 salary pension scheme and access to SAYE Emissions from company cars amounted to and we believe this long running commitment and incentive schemes through which they 3,794 tonnes CO in 2002 6,074 tonnes CO to corporate social responsibility differentiates 2 2 can share in our success.
We have now introduced a campaign our business from others.
As the director the views and opinions of our staff through to reduce inter-ofce travel and LPG converted responsible for CSR, I am, therefore, delighted our Staff Opinion Survey and we monitor vehicles are now available as an option when to be able to report such solid progress in and set improvement targets for staff replacing company cars.
Additionally, in 2002 meeting our responsibilities during 2002. turnover and absenteeism.
Our commitment we upgraded our video-conferencing facilities, For the Board to health and safety is recognised through promoting video tele-conferencing to all the Bronze Award 2000 and Silver Award staff as part of our policy to cut down on 2002 for Occupational Safety issued by the business travel.
Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents.
Our other major direct impacts result from The environment the paper and water we use and the waste Climate change is perhaps the biggest we produce.
We established a measure for BRIAN SWEETL AND environmental problem facing the planet plain paper use, 54 million sheets in 2002 DIRECTOR AND SECRETARY today and we recognise that the electricity 57 million sheets in 2001 and have set we burn and the emissions from our a target to reduce this amount by 1% in All figures and targets relate toFriends Provident Life company cars have a direct impact.
Our water usage at Head Ofce sites and Pensions unless otherwise indicated.
FRIENDS PROVIDENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002
