Corporate and Social Responsibility Report In recent years there has been growing recognition that the behaviour of businesses is an important factor in inuencing a wide range of social, environmental and ethical issues.
With improved communications and the continuing development of global businesses their inuence is now second only to that of the governments of major powers.
In 2002 issues surrounding corporate behaviour were also brought into sharp focus by the collapse of Enron and Worldcom and the accounting practices of certain other major companies.
The growing awareness of these issues has seen the UK Government seeking to pursue many of its policy objectives by inuencing the behaviour of companies by persuasion or the introduction of codes of practice rather than immediate legislation.
This has been accompanied by the establishment of many non-governmental bodies: underlying trends towards better standards of corporate governance and risk management: and growing shareholder activism.
These developments in turn have given rise to a considerable industry aiming to provide benchmarking, consultancy and auditing services.
ISIS has been actively involved in these developments, having a long history of managing socially responsible investment funds and engaging with the companies in which it invests on behalf of its clients on governance, social and environmental issues.
It remains at the forefront of this development, with a 12-strong Governance and Socially Responsible Investment Team providing socially responsible investment services on behalf of our clients.
In January 2003 Royal and SunAlliance Insurance Group plc subscribed to our responsible engagement service reo, taking our total reo funds to in excess of 16 billion.
ISISs overall approach to risk management continues to be driven by its Turnbull process, which co-ordinates the reporting, ownership and monitoring of all risks, including social, environmental and ethical risks and risks to ISISs brand and reputation.
Further details on ISISs risk management activities is contained in the Directors Report on Corporate Governance on pages 36 to 45.
Development of ISISs policies on corporate social responsibility CSR and their implementation throughout the ISIS group are co-ordinated by a CSR Committee chaired by the Chief Operating officer, Kenneth Back.
Robert Talbut the Chief Investment officer chairs the corporate governance committee, which seeks to ensure that we expect the highest standards of corporate governance from the companies in which we invest and that ISIS itself complies with those standards wherever practicable.
In addition to endeavouring to make our 2002 Annual Report and Accounts more transparent we are, for the first time, providing copies of our annual CSR Report unaudited to all shareholders.
That report provides a substantial amount of additional information on how the group has discharged its responsibilities during 2002 as a discretionary asset manager and on its socially responsible investment products.
It also charts the progress ISIS has made in identifying its direct social and environmental impacts and the targets it has set itself for the current year.
ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 21
