Responsible engagement overlay An indication of the scope, effectiveness and potential of the reo process for achieving benets to society while at the same time enhancing the long-term shareholder value in companies in which ISIS invests can be obtained from the following examples of ISIS successes that are in the public domain.
Further information can be found in the CSR Report for the year ended 31 December 2002 available on request from ISIS Asset Management plc, 100 Wood Street, London EC2V 7AN or on the companys website www.
Travis Perkins The ISIS engagement programme on sustainable forestry encourages companies which are significant users of forest products to examine their policies and practices.
We encourage companies to make an explicit commitment to obtaining supplies from certied sources such as those covered by the Forest Stewardship Council and, where appropriate, to join the Forest Trade Network.
This is a scheme led by the World Wildlife Fund, in which member companies commit to meeting specic targets for certication.
We invited several of our investee companies, including Travis Perkins, to a seminar with the Forest Trade Network two years ago, and have subsequently been discussing the issue of sustainable sourcing with companies in the construction industry.
Travis Perkins is one of the UKs largest suppliers of materials to the building trade, and sells around 280 million of wood and wood products per annum.
ISIS has been in close discussion with the company over the past two years about its wood sourcing policies, and in October 2002, we spoke at the companys annual suppliers conferences about the business benets of managing environmental risks.
In May 2002, the Travis Perkins Board made a decision to join the Forest Trade Network, and sign up to targets for sustainable timber sourcing.
The company aims to achieve a target of sourcing 2 3 of its timber from certied sources by 2006.
Ian Goldsmith, the companys Group Planning Director with corporate responsibility for environmental issues, wrote to us: We welcome constructive suggestions from investors about how to manage our environmental activities.
ISIS has played an important role in helping us examine our timber sourcing and nd ways to participate in target-setting and certication.
This improves our environmental performance, which in turn makes us more attractive to investors like ISIS which take into account social and environmental issues.
22 ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 ISIS Banking Benchmarking Study During 2002, ISIS carried out an in-depth study, with Dr. Andrea Coulson from the University of Strathclyde, of the environmental credit risk assessment ECRA procedures of 10  banks held in its portfolios.
This work revealed how leading European banks address the potential risks associated with environmental factors in their core lending practices.
The report shed new light on the business foundation for banks employing ECRA.
Asked why they have put such procedures in place, all of the ten banks said that a key reason was the minimisation of defaults.
Fines incurred due to environmental liabilities, in particular, may make borrowers less able to repay their debts.
While there was a general consensus amongst the ten banks questioned about the importance of environmental criteria, ISISs detailed analysis of the practical steps taken to incorporate these criteria into lending decisions revealed a surprisingly large divergence.
Eight out of the ten banks have an ECRA procedure embedded within their overall credit policy.
These procedures vary considerably, some using tools such as owcharts or risk matrices, and others simpler methods such as a checklist of questions.
There are also variations in the mechanisms put in place to ensure that these policies are implemented properly.
The banks employed a variety of methods, including the training of lending ofcers: regular auditing of lending decisions: setting up specialist support services: and establishing formal performance measurement systems.
Based on the banks policies and practices in all these areas, ISIS was able to categorise them into three types: those which have recognised the relevance of ECRA but have yet to articulate a full set of policies On the starting grid : those which have established policies and procedures, but are not on the cutting edge The chasing pack : and those with very well-established environmental risk assessment procedures, which often demonstrate best practice The race leaders.
On the starting grid: Santander Central Hispano, SocieteGenerale and UniCredito Italiano The chasing pack: HSBC, ING Group, Royal Bank of Scotland and Standard Chartered The race leaders: Barclays, Credit Suisse Group and Lloyds TSB.
This study forms a strong basis for ISIS to continue to monitor progress in environmental credit assessment, and to work with banks to develop their policies and practices, as part of its reo approach to equity management.
It also demonstrates that banks that take the first steps to address these issues now will ultimately be best placed to reconcile good environmental practice with financial sustainability.
ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 23
