26 We strive to deliver excellent performance relating to the broader principles of Corporate Social Responsibility, including the workplace, the environment and the wider community.
corporate social responsibility Our Ladys Primary School in Limehouse, London Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc 27 Report & Accounts 2002 1 2 3 At Jardine Lloyd Thompson, Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Operations Group and the 305th Security Forces Squadron.
is an important consideration in terms of both our day to day With increased overseas deployments and extended stays of military business decisions and our long term strategy.
personnel, the booster clubs use the funds raised to organise events and activities, which all help to boost the morale of the troops and their families We strive to deliver excellent performance relating to the broader during these stressful times.
principles of CSR, including the workplace, the environment and Examples of our community involvement are: the wider community.
A team from one of our London offices spent a day painting and The workplace : our people are without question our most important decorating a temporary accommodation home in Camberwell.
asset and this shapes our approach towards the many diverse The home is dedicated to supporting the ex-homeless to get them issues which affect employees in the workplace.
From recruitment to off the street and into permanent housing.
retirement policies we are dedicated to becoming the employer of 5 members of the Liverpool office helped to plant new gardens at a choice, creating an environment where everyone can contribute to local baby hospice, Zes Place.
Situated in West Derby, Liverpool, and benefit from our success.
Our UK employee flexible benefits Zes Place is the first baby hospice in the country to care for babies scheme, Choices, reflects our understanding that no one employee who have multiple special needs, and offers respite and palliative is the same.
We operate in a diverse world and we ensure that our terminal care to infants and their parents.
Within London, we are directly involved in the Lloyds Community Programme with Our Ladys Primary School in Limehouse, London, We also understand that balancing the demands of work and into which we contribute actively and financially.
Activities include an IT personal life is becoming increasingly difficult.
We recognise the Partnering Scheme, providing IT training to Teachers, Secretaries and duties we have towards our employees and continually strive to Teaching Assistants and the development of E-Mentoring and Mentor place our employees health and welfare at the top of the agenda.
Alongside this, development of our people is of prime importance In December, over 400 children and grandchildren of JLT employees to us, which is why we choose to invest considerable time and joined in the festive family fun at the childrens Christmas party based resources in training and development activities, supporting the at JLTs London Head office.
achievement of key business objectives.
Charitable donations and match giving : the Group has continued In 2002, JLT Risk Solutions entered into the Sunday Times to support a wide range of charitable projects throughout 2002.
100 Best Companies To Work For awards, where we achieved Our staff take part in a large number of local and national fund raising an impressive 10th place.
charity events and our Group Charities Committee matches the money The community : our community involvement and our employee raised by these employee events.
volunteers efforts contribute to the achievement of our key The environment : JLT considers respect for the environment to be business goals, supporting our on-going commitment to be the an integral business responsibility.
The achievement of a high standard employer of choice.
of environmental awareness is essential to assist in sustaining and Our community programme encourages staff to actively volunteer keeping in balance the environment and environmental resource.
to get involved by helping the communities in which we operate To this end JLT has set the following guidelines within the Group to: through a range of initiatives.
In the UK we are a national member of Business in the Community BitC : with a wide spread of our offices carefully manage waste so as to minimise its production where across the UK, we are ideally placed to participate in the initiative.
possible or suitably disposing of it through recycling schemes: At Jardine Lloyd Thompson UK, employees are offered the control polluting emissions: opportunity to donate up to a day per year volunteering to help ensure appropriate regulatory compliance: in the local community.
design and operate facilities taking into account the efficient use of energy and materials: Since the terrorist events of September 11, 2001, JLT Re Solutions, encourage the adoption of these guidelines by contractors acting based in the United States, has supported the activities of the on behalf of the Company.
booster clubs formed by the US Air Forces 621st Air Mobility The Sunday Times Award Childrens Christmas Party Zes Place 28 We aim to provide an environment in which all our people can demonstrate and develop their skills.
highlights Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc 29 Report & Accounts 2002
