Man Group front WACE 13 6 02 5:10 pm Page 26 Corporate Social Responsibility Report The Group believes that financial performance should be accompanied by high standards of social performance including the addressing of concerns of all stakeholders.
The Group has therefore developed policies, weighted towards the biggest impact areas for the Group, which include commitments on employees, ethical conduct, health and safety, the environment and charitable donations.
As part of the Groups internal control system, a process of risk assessment workshops is undertaken by all operating units.
These review on a continuing basis major business risks at all levels, which are documented together with the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
Included in this ongoing review is the identification and assessment of the significant risks to the Groups short and long term value arising from Corporate Social Responsibility CSR matters, as well as the opportunities to enhance value that may arise from appropriate actions.
The Board takes responsibility for ensuring such risks are identified, evaluated and managed.
The Group is a member of the FTSE4GOOD UK Index.
We are committed to focusing on the adoption of good reporting practice in this area and outline our main policies and procedures below.
Employment policies The Group remains committed to creating an environment that will attract, develop, motivate and reward employees of high calibre, taking into account the specific requirements of the businesses.
The Group actively promotes involvement in the Company through performance and profit related bonuses, the operation of long-term share-based incentive schemes and other employee share schemes.
During the year the Company set up sharesave schemes in the UK and United States for all employees.
Employees, employee benefit trusts and the Board together hold 13.5% 2001: 13.8% of the Companys issued share capital at the date of this report.
The Group has adopted appraisal and continuing professional development systems based on sound procedures to ensure employees remain proficient and up to date in their roles, to assist them in developing their careers within the Group and to identify appropriate training needs.
The Group seeks to ensure that its approach to training leads to forward thinking and business focussed solutions to training and development issues to the benefit of both the organisation and employees.
The Groups promotion policy is based on sound procedures to ensure all employees have an equal opportunity to be considered and that the successful candidate is competent to fulfil the more senior position.
Wherever possible, job vacancies are advertised internally.
The Group has a policy of non-discrimination on the grounds of colour, race, ethnic or national origin, sex, age or disability.
Employees who become disabled during their working life will be retained in employment wherever possible and given help with any necessary rehabilitation and retraining.
The Group will not deliberately infringe employees rights under the Human Rights Act, including an employees right to freedom of expression and to privacy and family life.
On joining the Group, all employees are required to agree to the Groups policy statement on business principles and ethical conduct.
The Group attaches high importance to its reputation for honesty, integrity and high professional and ethical standards.
It acknowledges that standards can only be maintained through the actions and conduct of employees and as such the Group provides educational and training programmes for employees where it is appropriate.
26 Man Group plc Annual Report 2002 Man Group front WACE 13 6 02 5:10 pm Page 27 Health & Safety The Group headquarters Health & Safety policy statement includes a commitment to providing and maintaining an environment which is without risk to health, safety or welfare together with work equipment and systems of work for all its employees which are safe to use, and also to provide such information, training and supervision as is needed to achieve this end.
In order to prevent discomfort and possible injury through incorrect posture and use of VDUs, the Group gives training about those aspects of machine use.
Outside specialists are contracted to carry out fire risk, general risk and compliance assessments.
There is an active Health & Safety committee, which ensures all members have completed appropriate training.
Environment The Board recognises that environmental issues are of fundamental importance to successful and responsible business strategy.
The Group has operations on an international scale and is conscious of its obligations to the environment and local community.
It is committed to minimising the environmental impact of its operations wherever possible.
The Board is aware of the international commitment to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and as a result currently monitors energy consumption and has installed energy efficient heating and air conditioning equipment at its headquarters.
Video conferencing is actively encouraged in order to curb emissions resulting from corporate travel, and interest free season ticket loans are made available to all UK permanent staff to promote the use of public transport.
The Group wishes to balance business needs with the aim of reducing its consumption of materials.
As such, extensive use is made of electronic communication in place of paper usage, and at all the Groups principal offices waste paper is collected and recycled by external contractors.
Charitable donations During the year the Group made charitable donations of 1.1 million.
In the UK, the Trustees of the Man Group plc Charitable Trust made donations amounting to 303,231.
The Trustees actively encourage applications for charitable support to charities where members of staff have a personal involvement.
The policy of enhanced support to selected charities over a three year period continued.
Support to educational projects was increased and a commitment of 75,000 over three years was made to the City of London School Bursary Campaign.
The Group made contributions totalling $1 million to various charitable foundations and disaster funds set up following the events of 11 September 2001.
These included the NY Firefighters Disaster Fund, the NYMEX Charitable Foundation, the NY Police Officers Disaster Fund and the British Victims of 11 September Disaster Fund.
In addition, contributions of $65,750 were made to charities in the US in which our employees are active participants.
They cover a wide range of interests, including charities for children and cancer cures.
27 Man Group plc Annual Report 2002
