Corporate Responsibility Review Our Group Code of Conduct lays down the principles of corporate responsibility CR at Prudential and provides the basis for our forward planning.
Corporate actions have RESPONSIBILITY a profound impact on how we are viewed by customers, Is integral to our relationships with our customers, employees, shareholders, communities, government and our people, shareholders, local communities.
We believe that having a sound reputation for behaving responsibly provides a strong basis for growth Provides a basis for growth and enhances our financial and will enhance our financial success over the long term.
success over the long term.
Goes beyond our legal and regulatory obligations.
In 2002, we extended measures to ensure that CR is fully integrated across the Company in each of our markets and is overseen at the highest level.
We have: Established a governance structure, which includes a new company-wide CR Policy Group CRPG, reporting to our Group Finance Director on strategic issues.
Reinforced our commitment to CR through the introduction of a new Group CR policy.
Marketplace While we sell different products in each of our markets, we are fundamentally dealing with the universal need for financial security.
We aim to help consumers become better informed about financial matters so that they can manage their financial affairs more effectively.
Our work in this area includes our Plan from the Pru in the UK, which provides a simple, impartial step-by-step guide to planning finances.
The savings gap in the UK is estimated by the Association of British Insurers to be as much as 27 billion.
Our Plan aims to provide people with access to the information they need to allow them to think about and address their own savings gap.
It includes providing them with information about a number of products which are not provided by Prudential.
It is supported by a free telephone number so that customers can discuss their individual needs with staff who have been specially trained in clear communications.
Workplace Recruitment, retention and development of the best people is critical to a business such as ours, in order to maintain standards of service and our competitive advantage.
Our business units produce and implement local plans in support of this, reflecting overall Group policy in areas such as employee learning and diversity.
In Asia, PruUniversity continues to offer courses to employees and agents that develop their skills and knowledge in areas essential to their current roles as well as the future needs of the financial services industry.
In 2002 this programme was extended to our agents in Malaysia.
In the US, JNL helps to meet the costs of continuing education opportunities for staff, in addition to providing a range of training options including courses delivered via computer technology.
In the UK, the You Choose programme enables employees to create their individual benefits portfolio from a selection of lifestyle and leisure benefits including additional holiday or access to health schemes.
On launch in October 2002 80 per cent of employees took the opportunity to change their benefits to a more flexible and individual portfolio.
26 Prudential plc Annual Report 2002 Communities In partnership with charities and educational bodies, we are FINANCIAL LITERACY actively promoting lifelong financial learning.
In 2002, we joined forces with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Of UK adults, 42 per cent believe that their education has Development OECD to fund a major three-year research not prepared them well enough to deal with their personal programme.
This will inform dialogue with opinion formers finances and 60 per cent think that the financial services across markets about how financial education might play a part industry together with independent organisations are in helping consumers plan effectively for the long term and best placed to provide information and education on cater for increasingly complex needs.
In the UK, our financial matters relating to finance services MORI, 2002. literacy work continues with organisations such as Citizens Advice, through the funding of a grant scheme to enable A total of 2,152 adults aged 15 were interviewed between 22 to local advice bureaux to deliver community-based projects, 27 November 2001 across 210 sampling points in the UK.
Data was supported by a dedicated programme manager.
then weighted to reflect the national population profile.
We also enhance the sustainability of the communities around our business through support for local projects, many of which also benefit from the support and skills of our employees.
In China, PCA supports children in poorer provinces with their tuition fees at CITIC Prudential Hope School.
In Vietnam, staff help a wide range of causes by taking part in dedicated volunteering days.
In 2002 employees at JNL who volunteer in their local communities participated in Prudentials volunteer reward programme, which provides grants to community groups supported by members of staff.
Our support for communities consists of cash donations and support in kind, such as office space and computer equipment as well as the time and skills of our employees.
In 2002, our community support activity amounted to 3.3 million, of which 1.6 million was spent on charitable donations.
Environment Our direct environmental impact is principally through our UK property investment portfolio and our occupied buildings.
We are committed to minimising this through the careful management of our day-to-day business activities and by working with suppliers to improve overall efficiency.
We also have an indirect impact on the environment through the investments we make on behalf of customers.
M&G, our UK and European fund manager, believes that well-managed and growing businesses will, as a matter of course, take environmental and social issues into account in moving their businesses forward.
M&G asks the companies in which it invests for a well-reasoned and practical approach, recognising that this can vary according to each companys circumstances.
Dialogue and Communication In setting CR strategy, we benchmark our social and environmental performance against that of our peers in the financial services sector and wider best practice.
We also maintain dialogue with business and non-business interest groups in order that our approach to CR remains meaningful and relevant.
We are committed to reporting our CR progress publicly on an annual basis, using quantifiable, measurable data where possible.
Detailed information about our CR policies and programmes can be found in our on-line CR report www.
