22 22 Capita Capita Our people Paul White 31 Simon Nelson 29 Rita Gulrajani 43 Business Development TV Licensing Connexions Card Paul joined Capita in 1995 as part of The TV Licensing partnership with the Rita has found that, since she started the graduate development scheme as a BBC to deliver field and call centre working for Capita in 1995 as a Business Support Assistant.
Within the operations went live in July 2002 and Business Support Manager, the nature first two years he was given project Simon transferred from Consignia to of the company has allowed her to management responsibilities.
By 2000 Capita, under TUPE, as a Data broaden her knowledge and work in a Paul was promoted to Bid Manager and Processor.
Since then he has seen his variety of roles discovering new skills is now Business Development Manager role and responsibilities grow as hes along the way.
Ritas current position is working on Capitas big ticket sales.
moved into developing and managing Regional Stakeholder Manager on the From joining the Group, Paul now has business data stores and involvement Connexions Card project, responsible a wide range of training under his belt in project planning.
Simon is now a for communicating with and promoting including a six week Young Business Implementation Database the Card to all key stakeholders.
She Professionals Programme at the London Advisor and is looking forward to further comments: Im a natural networker Business School, sponsored by Capita.
The culture of and Capita is a company that embraces Paul says of Capita: Its an organisation change within Capita is extremely that and allows you to diversify into that allows you to determine your own invigorating and I am finding that the areas that you may not have considered career path and will support you taking development opportunities here are before.
Colleagues from across the chances.
As Capita continues to grow fulfilling my every expectation.
business have recognised areas where I look forward to further challenges.
they think I can contribute and opened opportunities for me.
People are our most valuable resource.
We believe a strong and successful workforce is built on reward, opportunities, diversity, fair treatment, communication and a commitment by the employer to provide a safe, supportive working environment.
At Capita we promise to deliver on these vital building blocks to the best of our ability.
Working at Capita is At the end of 2001 I would Capitas core values exciting as the business not have been able to predict 1 respect our customers moves constantly, in line what 2002 had in store.
and colleagues with changing customer For a large Plc there is always 2 encourage a can do requirements.
Capability is a spirit of enterprise in Capita mentality rewarded with increased that you would normally ownership and responsibility.
3 deliver what we promise It is fantastic to see the 4 work together in teams Carl Upsall 39 success and fruition of Capita Learning & Development 5 have an open door approach recently created programs 6 give autonomy and that both help the customer take responsibility and the company progress.
7 manage calmly and Zo Boustead 32 consistently Academy Information Systems 8 aim to keep politics to a minimum 9 achieve business objectives without internal competition 10 make it fun!
23 23 Capita Capita Our people Lynne Reynolds 37 Ian Penkethman 41 The Group is so dynamic Local Government Services TV Licensing that doors are always Lynne transferred to Capita under TUPE Ian came to Capita, in 2001, as a opening.
Our markets are in 1998, when Capita entered into result of a TUPE transfer, through incredibly diverse resulting partnership with Bexley Council in the Capitas partnership with Blackburn in excellent opportunities administration of Housing Benefit with Darwen Borough Council.
and Council Tax Benefit claims.
served an apprenticeship in printing Lynne joined as a Customer Service and spent 18 years in the trade, Ian Steve Crowe 33 Officer and has since been promoted believed his career was set as a print four times to her current position manager.
At Ians first appraisal at Capita Consulting of Housing Benefit Primary Team Capita, his manager enquired as to why Manager.
During her time at Capita, he had not applied for other positions Lynnes skills have also been utilised within Capita.
He recalls: I thought I across other projects for the London was being loyal and I couldnt see Boroughs of Lambeth and Bromley.
It was pointed out Of her experience of Capita, Lynne that maybe I had more to offer Capita says: I have been provided with great the most eye opening thing anyone had opportunities since I joined.
I feel I said to me for years!
Within a year of have a good career with Capita and joining Capita, Ian was offered a have been encouraged to better my position on the TV Licensing contract own position within the company.
and is now a Field Support Manager.
Says Ian: For me, life most definitely did begin at 40.
Time does not stand still in Capita.
There are definitely opportunities and rewards for those who are willing and able.
Joining Capita Health and Safety The number of Capita employees is growing rapidly at the Health and Safety is an integral part of business performance.
end of 2002 we had grown our total workforce to 17,000 Year on year we set ourselves new objectives to improve our 2001: 13,000.
Our employees are from a range of performance in reducing workplace injuries and ill health, backgrounds public sector, private sector, university and protecting the environment and reducing unnecessary losses experienced professionals and come to us with a range and liabilities.
These objectives are monitored continuously and are subject to Variety in our people makes for a richer, more innovative regular audits.
Amongst our initiatives in 2002, we revised our and vibrant business culture a key competitive advantage Health and Safety Policy Statement and further enhanced our in the market.
We have an equal opportunities policy that is communications of this policy and guidance across the Group promoted and followed in all our activities and each employee by running seminars and publishing a user focused handbook is responsible for making sure that his or her actions are in on our intranet.
Remuneration and reward Employees join Capita through various channels through Capita is committed to providing fair remuneration to all our direct recruitment, acquisition or outsourcing.
When we win a employees and rewards achievement of objectives with an major outsourcing contract, large numbers of staff transfer to us increase in salary.
Our range of benefits includes a pension under TUPE the Transfer of Undertakings Protection of scheme, life insurance and personal accident cover, employee Employment Regulations.
share plans and a range of discounts on goods and services The largest transfer to date took place last year when over from insurance products to electrical goods.
1,400 staff joined Capita to deliver field and call centre services Open dialogue for BBC TV Licensing.
Regular communication is key during a transfer many people may have concerns about the process We encourage all our employees to participate fully in the and need to know exactly what it will mean to them.
We do business through open dialogue, which in turn encourages everything we can to ensure that transferees feel informed and debate, innovation and exchange of knowledge all of which supported throughout with a dedicated support team, one-to-one fuel successful business growth.
In return, it is our responsibility sessions, regular bulletins and a confidential email address to keep all staff well informed about the strategic direction of and or hotline for questions.
the business and news and events across the Group.
Employee development We encourage two-way communication through a number of channels including regular team meetings, the Group intranet, Capitas success is dependent on the skill, commitment and the staff magazine and roadshows.
In addition, we ensure that enthusiasm of our staff.
Through continual learning and personal managers operate an open door policy and conduct ongoing development, we ensure that all our employees are fulfilled in performance management and regular appraisals.
their job and equipped for the challenges of their role.
Knowledge of whats going on will, we hope, give our employees We offer a huge range of courses and professional qualifications.
a shared sense of ownership of the business and equip people Our capabilities have been greatly enhanced by the acquisition with the necessary tools to help push the business forward.
in 2001 of the Industrial Societys workforce training and development business the leading expert in the training field.
This has resulted in a considerable increase in the number and variety of courses we can offer our staff.
24 Capita Our community and environment NSPCC Number Day Princes Trust auction We do not view social The NSPCC Number Day is an event to Amongst the initiatives for the Princes responsibility as an add-on promote maths to children as a fun, Trust in 2002, we held an auction for accessible and important subject, while the charity.
Employees were invited to our business but as raising money for the NSPCCs FULL to send in their bids for a range of STOP campaign.
fantastic prizes all donated including fundamental to our business.
a Formula 1 racing experience, a VW Capita, in partnership with the DfES, Beetle for a week, a light aircraft flight, supported the 2002 event which took a London weekend break for two place on 5th December.
Nearly 1,000 and 40 pairs of Virgin Trains first class schools took part across the country, return tickets.
holding special events including a range of educational maths games and The highest bid for each prize was fundraising activities.
chosen and the winners given a strict timescale within which to claim their Number Day packs, sponsored by prizes, otherwise the lots were passed Capita, were sent to schools in down to the next highest bidder.
The packs contained a range of exciting activities and games, suitable for any situation, plus posters, advice on planning and advertising and record of payment forms.
% In the world today, corporate social responsibility CSR and At Capita we understand the importance maximising long-term shareholder value are not incompatible of taking responsibility for the social and but increasingly inter-dependent as both customers and investors raise their expectations in respect of both quality environmental impacts of our business and social responsibility.
and are committed to continually Capita has been included in the FTSE4Good index since 2001 improving performance in both areas.
the year of its launch and we have recently launched a new CSR area of our website at www.
The site Our commercial success is dependent states our approach to CSR, includes Capitas policies and on sustaining and building our Group performance relating to key areas such as our staff, shareholders, suppliers and the community and sets out our commitment to through recognising these wider integrating environmental management into the business during responsibilities.
This is just the first step.
We have set ourselves a target of full CSR reporting across the business, by 2004.
Environment Capita is working hard to improve our environmental performance and minimise any harmful effects of our business, wherever and whenever practicable.
In 2002 we embarked on a Group-wide environment programme, building on the good work we already do.
An audit of all Capita sites was completed at the end of the year, with detailed site surveys carried out at a representative sample of sites.
We agreed an overarching Environmental Policy and, to achieve our overall objective of a Group-wide environmental programme to be in place by 2004, we have identified key objectives for 2003: Assign responsibility and develop an environmental management structure Improve communications with stakeholders Appraise legislative requirements and develop plans to aid compliance Develop and deliver a staff awareness programme Develop systems for monitoring and reporting on Key Performance Indicators.
25 Capita Our community and environment Capita sponsors performing arts centre CTD Capita awarded the International Prompt payment programme Standard for Environmental October 2002 saw the official opening In December 2000 Capita launched Management ISO 14001 of the Thwaites Theatre complex in the prompt payment programme which East Lancashire.
The complex contains Printing is a traditionally dirty has raised almost 100,000 in just a performing arts centre which has business.
The chemicals used in the over two years.
been sponsored by Capita as a part of industry can be harmful to the Under the scheme, Capita donates Capitas involvement in the community environment while wastage 100 to the NSPCC whenever one in Blackburn with Darwen.
We provided particularly of paper is usually of our customers pays an invoice 4,000 in 2002 and are donating very high.
Less than one per cent of above the value of 25,000 within 21 another 4,000 in 2003. printers have this accreditation.
The scheme has proved The Capita Performing Arts Centre CTD Capita worked hard to implement to be extremely successful, both offers a dance studio, rehearsal space an effective Environmental Management benefiting the NSPCC and Capita.
and meeting rooms for local groups System to manage all environmental Customers also appreciate their part and societies.
impacts from its activities, products in the worthwhile scheme.
The system is made up of objectives and targets based on continual improvement: a clear structure of roles and responsibilities to facilitate effective environmental management: ensuring that all staff receive the appropriate training: and procedures to identify any possible emergency situations that may arise.
The majority of our offices recycle paper and toner cartridges Capita continues to support, in particular, the Princes Trust xL and redundant IT equipment is passed on to charitable concerns network project.
xL clubs target young people facing difficulties that specialise in cleansing and reconfiguring the equipment for in schools and work with them on a personal development onward distribution to worthy causes.
curriculum that promotes achievement and encourages success.
Our Executive Chairman Rod Aldridge joined the Princes Trust A limited number of Capita operations have wider environmental Council in 2001, is a Board member of the Princes Trust impacts notably our print business and property consultancy.
Trading Company and chairs the xL Advisory Board.
These are actively monitored against all legislative requirements.
During 2002, both Capita Infrastructure Consultancy, part of We encourage staff involvement in individual fundraising Capita Property Consultancy, and CTD Capita our printing activities and once again we have been impressed by the arm were awarded the ISO 14001 Environmental System dedication and imagination of our employees.
combination of marathons, jail breaks, sponsored head shaves, cycle rides, fancy dress competitions and white water rafting Community challenges to name but a few raised money for a whole host Capita works with communities to contribute to social and of worthy causes, including the Macmillan Cancer Trust, Jeans environmental needs either directly through the work that for Genes, RSPCA, Comic Relief, Children in Need, National we do, or through our relationships with clients, such as local Deaf Childrens Society and the Cleft Lip and Palate Association.
councils, helping them to achieve economic regeneration in their area.
Our strategic partnership with Blackburn with Darwen Borough Council for the development, delivery and modernisation of a range of council services is built around a commitment to increase local opportunities for people, involve citizens more, Charitable donation improve services and create local employment.
Year % of pre-tax profit Within a year we have begun to join up council services and 1999 14,000 0.04 have created 400 new white collar jobs in this traditional 2000 49,000 0.09 manufacturing area.
2001 117,000 0.16 Charity 2002 181,000 0.18 The Capita Group has an ongoing commitment to two charities the Princes Trust and the NSPCC and we regularly hold a number of fundraising activities for both.
In 2002 we staged a fun day, a James Bond-themed ball, an auction and also sponsored the NSPCC Numbers Day, alongside our long-term prompt payment initiative.
