ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 34 Corporate citizenship and the Association of British Insurers ABI guidelines on social, ethical and Royal & SunAlliance has long recognised its Corporate environmental disclosure requirements, corporate citizenship role, its responsibilities which are available from the ABIs website towards social, ethical and environmental www.
The ABI guidelines take issues and the need for managing risks Citizenship the form of disclosures that institutional and opportunities in these areas.
Our investors would expect to see included in position as one of the worlds leading the annual report of listed companies.
international insurance groups gives us a Specically they refer to disclosures relating real understanding of how far risk goes to Board responsibilities and to policies, beyond the purely financial.
This is why procedures and verication.
Our Internal we welcome the increasing interest from Audit function undertakes assurance individual companies, industry groups, studies on the data included in the institutional investors and policy makers in reports described above.
Further details of our activities in all these areas can be found on our In 2002, our UK asset management website, www.
com, operations were sold to ISIS Asset or by writing to Investor Relations at Management.
Following detailed 30 Berkeley Square, London W1J 6EW.
discussions: it was agreed that the ISIS proprietary approach to socially We regard improving our management responsible investment, termed of our impact upon the environment Responsible Engagement Overlay REO, and the community as a priority.
significant would be applied to Royal & SunAlliance changes were implemented during 2002 funds under management.
REO allows equity funds to pursue social, environmental including the consolidation of policy and ethical objectives without compromising setting and strategic oversight for social, their financial obligations.
It differs from ethical and environmental corporate social the traditional approach to ethical responsibility issues under the remit of the investment in that it engages with Group Risk function.
This includes ongoing companies to encourage them to be analysis of the potential signicance in more socially responsible, rather than both the short and long term of all of the using screening to remove them from areas of risk under the broad remit of an investible index.
During 2002, we corporate social responsibility CSR.
have also participated in the formulation of the UK Government supported In addition, we have aligned our corporate Financial Organisations Guidance on citizenship reporting with our regulatory and Working in partnership with charities and the Environment FORGE guidelines financial reporting cycles, which are all on a other organisations.
on corporate social responsibility for calendar year basis.
The interim CSR report financial services organisations.
to align the reporting cycle is available on our website and we will continue to Ethical framework make all future reports available via the Royal & SunAlliance is a major multinational same medium.
company operating in many different business cultures and we are committed There has also been a review of our to maintaining the highest standards of environmental reporting strategy, which integrity and fair dealing across them all.
has resulted in a risk based approach being This commitment is underpinned in our implemented, focussing on major countries Statement of Business Principles, which of operation and a standardised range of governs our day to day operations.
This is designed to is available on our website.
give consistency with both business needs Environmental management Our Group Statement of Environmental Policy provides the baseline for management of environmental issues and is supported at a Group level by a practice comprising representatives from each of the Regions within the Group.
Legal compliance is viewed as a baseline for our environmental management activities and there were no warnings or prosecutions relating to any of our activities in 2002.
We utilise the annual UK Business in the Environment engagement survey as a benchmarking exercise.
This survey addresses two major aspects of corporate environmental activity management and We regard improving our performance.
The management questions seek to establish the adoption of suitable policies, processes and responsible management of our impact individuals and the performance questions consider the actual quantitative impacts upon the environment and such as the weight of waste produced.
In the 2002 survey, we were ranked 10th out the community as a priority.
of 39 in the UK financial services sector.
Previous Contents Next I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 35 Health and welfare Royal & SunAlliance strives to provide all employees with fair terms of employment and safe conditions at work.
The risk management of the health, safety and wellbeing of our employees, contractors and members of the public is recognised as a Board level issue.
An example of the focus of health and safety activities in 2002 was the work undertaken by our UK business to ensure existing standards and procedures were fully embedded within the business, supported by a programme of information, instruction and training to Health, Safety and Security Ofcers, Emergency Marshals and others.
A training programme comprising half day sessions on the causes, symptoms and impacts of stress, supporting the Group Wellbeing Policy Statement was also rolled out in 2002.
Community & social responsibility Insurance plays a vital role in society, helping individuals, families and businesses recover when things go wrong.
Royal & SunAlliance has been helping customers in their hour of need for almost 300 years, covering minor setbacks to far more serious losses.
The principles underlying our community activity reect this heritage: Reach out to people helping to build understanding of accident prevention With the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies we are involved, on a worldwide basis, in risk prevention and disaster relief, providing support following major catastrophes.
and responding to crisis Working in partnership with charities and other organisations Royal & SunAlliance Canada sponsored the Emergency Preparedness programme Acting responsibly and developing our in Quebec, designed to help children business in line with local needs deal with the emotional impact of a disaster.
This initiative has now been Involving our employees, maximising made available to all Canadian schools the benets from their own skills and knowledge In addition to our IFRC support, we also undertake activities that highlight our We launched our global relationship with principles of community involvement, some the International Federation of Red Cross examples of which are described below: and Red Crescent Societies IFRC in 1999, and development of our association is still Royal Sundaram, our joint venture in India, continuing.
It is a good illustration of how has supported the launch of an insurance our principles work in practice.
Our business education programme developed by the operations across the world have developed London School of Insurance local partnerships with IFRC national members in order to reect local needs Royal & SunAlliance Ireland sponsors the better.
Some examples are outlined below: Children of Ireland awards.
The awards were introduced in 1983 as part of the Royal & SunAlliance US is a key sponsor countrys National Childrens Day, to of Project Connecticut a programme honour children for their outstanding to help communities prepare for major courage either through coping with disasters, providing instructors as well serious illness or trauma or for giving as funding selflessly to others Codan, our subsidiary in Denmark, has been very successful in its support for a first aid learning package on CD ROM, with over 20,000 units being sold to date.
This is now being brought to the UK by our local business and being offered to our employees and pensioners as part of their voluntary benets package Previous Contents Next I I
