Sustainability Review Introduction The progress we have made in the past We believe that our sector-leading sustainability performance differentiates 12 months towards developing a more us from our competitors.
sustainable business is summarised here.
We therefore remain committed to implementing the principles of Sustainable You can find out more from our detailed Development in our business.
Providing more sustainable solutions for our Sustainability Report 2002, which is customers benefits all our stakeholders, because improving the environmental and published on our website: social aspects of our performance plays an important part in helping us to deliver our corporate business and financial www.
We have continued to develop and refine the model first published in our 2001 Sustainability Report that links our sustainability objectives to our strategic Being ranked in the top quintile of the business objectives.
This is helping us to establish the business case for Sustainable 122 companies surveyed by Business in Development.
During 2002, we were especially pleased to be invited by Business the Community in its first Corporate Social in the Community to help some of its other members develop similar models Responsibility Index, puts Carillion amongst for their businesses.
those companies leading the way on socially This is the third year in which we have reported our sustainability performance responsible behaviour.
against published targets, having previously published five annual reports on our environmental performance.
The summary reported here is supported by two more detailed reports our 2002 Sustainability Review and our full Sustainability Report, both of which can be found on our website.
Sustainability policy Corporate Responsibility Index The graph below summarises Carillions overall performance across the corporate responsibility agenda and compares us with other companies in the construction and building material sector and the overall index results.
100% Carillion provides sustainable solutions for the way we live.
We will achieve this by 80% Sharing our vision and policy with all Turning our vision into reality by 60% embedding sustainability into everything we do 40% Measuring and verifying our progress 20% Promoting our vision as an instrument of change CS Int Man SP EP A 0% Key Company Sector Overall index CS: Company Strategy, Int: Integration, Man: Management, SP: Social Performance, EP: Environmental Performance, A: Assurance Source: Business in the Community, March 2003 Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 22 10 of our key suppliers attended a one-day Our Sustainability Committee continues to with our key impacts and sustainability sustainability workshop be chaired by Sir Neville Simms, Carillions policy are summarised on pages 22 and Over 1% of our profits were donated in cash or Chairman.
Membership of this committee 23 respectively.
in kind to community or environmental initiatives includes Roger Robinson, the executive Over 1.1million accident free hours at The Great Western Hospital, Swindon board director whose responsibilities 2002 Performance We received seven RoSPA awards, including the include sustainability and other members For 2002, we set six corporate sustainability Presidents Award and our GCHQ site won the of Carillions senior management team.
objectives, supported by 14 sustainability British Safety Council Sword of Honour Independent external perspectives are We developed and delivered 16 new sustainability targets, all of which relate directly to the toolbox talks bringing the total to 30 provided by two special advisers, Jonathon Governments objectives for sustainability.
Carillion Services helped Colchester General Hospital Porritt and David Cowans, both of whom We succeeded in meeting eight of our to reduce their water bills from 2,500 to 120 per are recognised experts in sustainability.
targets in full and scored 80 per cent or month by correcting inefficiencies in water Jonathon Porritt is Chairman of the UK distribution pipework better in respect of the other six targets.
Governments Sustainable Development The average target achievement was 93 per Commission and a Director of the Supporting People and Communities cent compared with 89 per cent in 2001. sustainability charity, Forum for the Future.
Our objective is to attract, develop and David Cowans, who we were pleased to retain excellent people, to become an The chart below shows our performance welcome to our Sustainability Committee employer of choice.
In a knowledge-based against our targets, which have been in 2002, is the Chief Executive of the business our people are the differentiator externally assessed and verified by housing association Places for People.
Our core values Casella Stanger.
support a culture that aims to build trust Health and safety continues to be a with our customers and suppliers, works In addition to our corporate objectives and key priority for the Carillion Board and to develop strong relationships with the targets, each of our individual businesses is therefore an important aspect of our communities in which we work and seeks have specific targets, thus ensuring that sustainability programme.
The Board to improve quality of life for our people the principles of Sustainable Development is supported by the Group Safety and their families.
Our Values Award are pursued across the Group and at all Committee, which is chaired by recognises the contributions made by our levels of activity and decision making.
Roger Robinson, our executive board people who have gone the extra mile in director with responsibility for health and demonstrating their commitment to living 2002 Highlights safety, and its membership includes the up to our core values.
In 2002, 321 awards 57% of sustainability targets were fully achieved, Managing Directors of Carillions individual were made.
with the remaining targets all scoring 80% or more By implementing our Green Transport Plan, our businesses and other senior staff.
average business miles per car reduced by 15% During 2002 we provided 2,327 training days to staff in 2002 through our dedicated shared learning resource We continue to use the Governments Our head office energy consumption was reduced Learning Works.
In addition, project staff received four objectives for sustainability to by approximately 5% training via inductions, toolbox talks, monthly health, help us identify our most important 2,327 formal training days were provided to staff safety and environment briefings and monthly Carillion at our training resource Learning Works Team Briefings.
These, together Key impacts 2002 Performance: Achievement against targets 1 43% 57% 2 1.
6 targets 43% substantially complete, scoring over 80% Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 23 Sustainability Review Continued We have initiated a review of our targets geared to delivering continuous only their own actions, but those community links and policies and have performance improvement.
of anyone they see who may be putting themselves or others at risk.
Seeking developed a Stakeholder Map, which has Our Business Groups are implementing feedback and listening to our employees enabled us, at both corporate and contract Integrated Management Systems is also an important part of all the level, to identify the people affected by our based on ISO 9000 and ISO 14000 initiatives we take.
activities or who may have an interest in Environment, which integrate health them.
The maps generated will be and safety into each and every aspect Our contribution to improving Health developed and implemented throughout of our activities.
Our management and Safety has been recognised by the 2003 to bring a more focused and positive systems are designed to be compliant industries in which we operate.
Our approach to our community actions.
This with OHSAS 18001, which Carillion successes in 2001 in the Working Well approach and the links created will also Together Campaign WWTC and in Building has achieved.
help our people to understand community winning the Contract Journal Silver Helmet issues and encourage our community award has been followed in 2002 with We work closely with industry bodies, stakeholders to express their views.
seven RoSPA Awards, including the the health and safety Executive and prestigious Presidents Award.
We also Those organisations that can demonstrate Government and share information and clearly their contribution to and membership of received a Highly Commended Award at good practice.
We fully support, and are broader society will prosper in the future.
WWTC and our New Accommodation working towards, meeting the challenges David Cowans who joined our Sustainability Project for GCHQ, Cheltenham, won the set out in the Governments Revitalising Committee in 2002.
British Safety Council Sword of Honour.
health and safety report June 2000 in Carillion Rail also won a number of conjunction with members of the Major Business in the Community, an awards, including RoSPA Gold and British Contractors Group.
organisation committed to improving the Safety Council Awards.
positive impact of business on society, has Understanding how, through better helped several of our projects focus their More detailed information on our 2002 design, we can influence construction, community involvement where it is most health and safety performance can be procurement and maintenance processes needed.
Some examples are shown below.
found in our Sustainability Report which throughout the life of our involvement in is accessible on our website.
Carillion project staff helped to improve the reading projects, offers major opportunities to skills of pupils from the St Thomas More Primary eliminate potential health and safety Our H&S Agenda for 2003 focuses on the School, Cheltenham as part of the Business in the hazards.
Early involvement and intervention following four issues: Community time to read paired programme.
is a fundamental part of our strategy and 1 Raising the profile of Health and producing good advice on preventing poor health due to work In order to broaden the pupils experience as well as our Safety By Design campaign enables activities.
improve their reading skills, the pupils were invited us to use our expertise to achieve cost 2 Engaging designers in our Safety By Design to visit a Carillion project.
25 pupils visited the GCHQ effective designs that deal with Health campaign and producing practical good practice site in Cheltenham for a lesson on site safety.
The and Safety issues at the earliest stage to guidance.
This is the HSEs top priority for the children really enjoy the reading sessions and being construction industry.
allowed to come here is bound to broaden their eliminate or mitigate risks.
3 Improving our accident investigation techniques to outlook on life.
get to the true root causes to enable preventative An increasing recognition of the importance measures to be put into place.
of work-related health across all business 4 Continuing with campaigns to ensure that agreed As part of Carillions Graduate induction programme method statements and good practice becomes sectors is redressing an historical imbalance a team of 70 of Carillions graduates helped to embedded in the behaviour and culture of people by increasing the emphasis placed on this refurbish St. Chads Community Centre, in under our control.
The project was organised by aspect of health and safety.
A recognition Business in the Community.
The graduates repainted of the importance of work related ill health the sports hall, repaired fencing and piping, and must be an integral part of any policy that Prince Albert School and cleared overgrown vegetation and litter.
This exercise seeks to develop a successful and more Carillion plc Partnership also gave our graduates a basic introduction to risk Carillion assisted pupils at Prince Albert School, in assessment and safety management.
We have therefore Birmingham, to develop ideas for the redevelopment implemented programmes to increase of derelict land near the school into a multi-purpose To quote one of the graduates: awareness and improve control to avoid community building.
Its inspiring that people make this commitment potential hazards and have started health and work hard for the well being of local people Pupils were asked to develop a plan for the project and their surroundings.
which included: a cost breakdown budget 5,000,000 Health and safety The effectiveness of any Health and basic floor design Whilst our prime concern is the safety Safety policy also depends upon the a scale model and well-being of all our employees culture and behaviour of our employees, To learn about the practical aspects of construction, and everyone affected by our activities, which can affect their willingness to the pupils visited Birmingham Business Site where Carillion also recognises that first class follow agreed procedures and use the they helped the project team to build a wall.
During health and safety standards are an equipment supplied to best effect.
their visit the children learnt about health and safety, building materials and completed a drawing exercise.
essential element of our strategy for We have therefore embarked upon a At the end of the project the teams presented their sustainable profitable growth.
number of behavioural initiatives with plan and models to a panel of judges, comprising the aid of external consultants, aimed at staff from the school and Carillion, who awarded Our health and safety policy is encouraging everyone we employ, control a prize for the best performance.
The prime aim or influence to be more aware of health Supporting the Environment of our policy is to embed a strong health and safety.
For example, our think safe Our activities have wide-ranging effects and safety culture into all our people and dont walk by campaigns drive home on the environment and contribute to at every level.
Delivery of our policy is the message that everyone must consider the quality of life we expect from our underpinned by specific and measurable the health and safety implications of not Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 24 built environment.
Therefore, we have a Waste Management We will therefore continue to develop major opportunity to make buildings and We have appointed a Supply Chain ways in which we can enhance infrastructure more sustainable, which Category Manager with responsibility shareholder value by improving our in turn contributes to the development for waste and established a task force social, environmental and economic of sustainable communities.
to review how we gather waste performance and to quantify the management information across business benefits of this in terms of Over the past eight years we have made the Group.
This will improve our sustainable, profitable growth.
significant progress in terms of both understanding of the costs and benefits understanding and improving our of waste management and help further At Group level, we have set 18 environmental performance against minimise waste.
sustainability targets for 2003 which specific targets and have reported the We have developed new waste reflect the business plans and sustainability results annually.
A full report on our management guidance and set more targets set for our individual businesses.
environmental performance in 2002 challenging targets for reducing waste Our 2003 targets also focus on deepening can be found in our Sustainability Report in our offices and on project and our understanding of thoses activities that accessible on our website.
will help us to demonstrate the business have highlighted a few examples of case for sustainability and on their our achievements in 2002.
The Great Western Hospital, Swindon, Resource Consumption has been designed to consume We will continue to work with our Our carbon dioxide CO emissions from 2 30% less energy and emit 35% less customers, partners and suppliers to help company car mileage reduced by 20%.
us understand how we can deliver more Our head office energy consumption We have reviewed case studies within sustainable solutions.
our businesses and our industry and Our commitment to preventing 2002- 2003 Objectives pollution continued, with Carillion Rail developed practical guidance for use on Supporting Communities replacing traditional oils and greases all our projects to maximise the benefits Communicate and share our sustainability strategy, used to lubricate rail points with a of sharing best practice.
vision and policy and continually improve the way biodegradable alternative.
Two of our staff became approved in which we engage with our stakeholders We have developed a Supplier Score BREEAM and EcoHomes Assessors Supporting the Environment Card to assess and improve the assessment methods for the Minimise negative impacts of our services performance of our key suppliers, environmental performance of buildings and activities on the environment which helps us to manage the impacts or homes enhancing our design Reduce waste production of the supply chains we use to procure Reduce energy consumption capability.
For example, the Land Registry products and services.
office complex in Plymouth was able to Supporting Prosperity boost its BREEAM rating from pass to Demonstrate the business case for sustainability Biodiversity and Wildlife excellent with our help.
Engage our supply chain in our sustainability We continued our successful partnership programme to improve the sustainability with The Wildlife Trusts, with our annual performance of our suppliers to support our Supporting Prosperity own sustainability targets donation of 25,000 being used to Carillion, together with its partners, support five new projects, building subcontractors and suppliers, has a on the four projects started when the considerable influence on the prosperity Carillion Natural Habitats initiative was of the people we employ and the launched in 2001. communities in which we work and our Carillion Highway Maintenance worked employees live.
In 2002, we have focussed with the Highways Agency to develop our efforts on demonstrating the benefits a Biodiversity Action Plan.
of becoming a more sustainable business, Wom Brook Water Vole Project not only to Carillion and its investors, Staffordshire Wildlife Trust won a 4,496 grant from but also to our customers and suppliers.
the Carillion Natural Habitats Fund to help protect We have completed a DTI funded endangered water voles within the Wom Brook in project, in partnership with Forum for Wombourne, South Staffordshire.
the Future, Casella Stanger and the Since 1996 the number of water voles in the area Construction Industry Research and had decreased by 73%.
The Water Vole project Information Association CIRIA, in which included restoring two ponds by utilising willow we researched and developed a process for weaving to protect the eroding bank.
In addition, a notice board was erected to increase public quantifying the environmental and social knowledge and support of the project.
costs and benefits of adopting sustainable solutions for construction projects.
This Carillion staff helped the team by digging ponds has helped us to demonstrate the business and clearing the site of silt.
The full We hope this project helps the survival of this project report is available on our website.
endearing mammal and raises awareness among the public about wildlife.
The future The situation is critical for rare and declining species such Our constant challenge is to ensure that as the water vole.
Chalk grassland and limestone pavement of the advances we have made, the is also in need of urgent help.
I am delighted that Carillion lessons we have learnt and the innovative have awarded grants to five of our Wildlife Trusts to help solutions we have developed are properly us protect these threatened species and habitats.
Dr Simon Lyster, Director General for The Wildlife Trusts.
assimilated into everything we do.
Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 25
