CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Carlton takes its social and environmental responsibilities The Carlton Television Trust has awarded a total of 4 million seriously.
to London groups and charities since 1993.
Over a third of Carlton engages constructively with enquiries from socially the grants approved during 2002 were for educational responsible investors and is listed in a number of green and projects benefiting children and young people from minority ethical indexes including the Dow Jones Sustainability World ethnic communities.
Carlton also participates in the Media Promoting arts within the regions is crucial for Sector CSR Forum.
the development of its community.
The Newlyn Art Gallery in the West Country, the City of Birmingham Symphony Management Orchestra, the Royal Shakespeare Company, The Brief The board director responsible for social and environmental Encounters Film Festival in Bristol and Londons renowned issues is Paul Murray, Finance Director.
Donmar Warehouse Theatre are just some of the many arts Carltons most significant issues are associated with initiatives within the ITV regions supported by Carlton over viewers, local communities and employees.
to viewers to uphold high standards and comply with codes ITV aims to encourage a sense of pride within local of conduct.
We believe that we should be active members communities, as seen in the Carlton Midlander of The Year of the communities we serve, supporting local causes and award in the Central region.
The title recognises outstanding championing local issues.
Television is a people business, contributions to life in the region and those who have and our ability to attract top talent is enhanced by being worked to raise the prestige of the Midlands.
ITV also works with schools to help encourage and give Our environmental impact is small and the main advice to the youth of today.
The West Country region works implication for the business is the cost of purchasing with Business in the Community, giving talks in local schools resources such as energy and materials.
Our ongoing focus on about working in the media.
The Central region ran the these issues will improve efficiency and produce cost savings.
Carlton Schools Tour, a workshop where pupils got the Carlton has formal policies covering the environment, chance to write, produce and present their own news human resources and business conduct and is governed by programme from a purpose-built studio in their school.
the industry codes applying to programme and advertising Carlton Television workshops in Nottingham, Birmingham content.
and Bristol for HTV West give young people the opportunity to develop their creative and artistic talents.
In the London Community region, Carlton celebrated its tenth year of running Metroland, In the community our aim is to develop relationships and a prime-time series for new directors who are also given invest in each region to give a lasting benefit to those that back-up support and training.
A scheme in the Central region, live there.
This investment takes many forms including First Cut, gives film-makers the opportunity to produce short donations, sponsorship of local charities and events, films, as does the Carlton London regions support of the programming and on-air campaigns, providing resources London Production Fund.
and staff involvement within the communities.
For the year ended 30 September 2002, communities Diversity within ITVs Carlton regions London, West Country, ITVs regions are made up of a diverse population especially Central, HTV Wales and HTV West benefited from a total Carltons London and Central regions which are home to of 0.3m in charitable contributions, none of which were 80 per cent of the ethnic population in the UK.
believes it is important to reflect this multi-cultural society on 41 screen and in the workplace.
This principle also applies to Raising public awareness representation of disability.
Carltons programming plays an important role in raising Carlton is tackling these issues by participating in two public awareness and stimulating debate by regularly covering important networks.
In 2000 Carlton spearheaded the social and environmental issues.
Cultural Diversity Network, a cross-industry initiative bringing In the London region Guns On Our Streets addressed the together all the major broadcasters, for which Carlton is one problem of a rising gun culture and black on black crime in of the leading supporters.
The profile of a similar initiative, the some parts of the capital.
Carlton London also broadcast Broadcasters Disability Network, was also raised in 2002, programmes on the impact of alcohol including advice on when Carlton helped to launch all the broadcasters Action safer drinking.
Other programmes tackled the lives of children Plans to improve the portrayal and employment of disabled on a housing estate, post-natal depression, green housing and people in and on television.
Carlton has set up a Diversity Steering Group, consisting HTV and Carlton West Country produced What On of representatives from senior Carlton executives whose role Earth, a week long series coinciding with the Earth Summit it is to drive forward and keep diversity initiatives under in Johannesburg.
HTVs programmes also covered organic review.
The key action points of the group are: gardening, conservation and a controversial landfill site To increase the presence of ethnic minorities and disabled in Rhondda.
people on screen and in all areas of the workforce.
Carlton Centrals Teen Week covered issues facing To modernise the casting and portrayal of ethnic teenagers including, under-age sex and pregnancy, body-image minorities and the disabled in mainstream programming.
Teen Week linked with local organisations and To create an online talent database and website.
agencies to provided advice and support to the regions To raise the profile of diversity issues.
Centrals daily programme Life Line kept health issues To increase the access of services and facilities on and on the agenda, while Waterworld drew attention to wildlife off screen.
In 2002 a Diversity Policy, outlining these objectives, ITV is committed to programming that attracts viewers was launched to all staff within Carltons regions to ensure by reflecting regional issues relevant to their lives.
Our a coherent approach to the issues.
programmes include award-winning documentaries tackling To date, ITV has made significant progress in its pursuit to local community issues such as Londons First Edition: Living reflect modern Britain through television, and this continues in A Box: Carlton West Countrys How Green is Our Valley, to improve.
For example, Carltons Multicultural Achievement HTVs Melting Pot and Centrals Rock Legends: UB40.
Awards was established to honour some of the most Carlton also partnered with British Gas, to develop an inspirational talent from Britains ethnic communities and was innovative energy efficiency campaign.
The result, Energy Idols, screened in all of Carltons regions.
In the Central region, the featured children in one minute films telling viewers about commitment to diversity led to sponsorship of both the their energy saving ideas.
Diwali festivities in Leicester and the Mela 2002 exhibition, which was the largest indoor celebration of Asian culture in The Workplace the UK this year.
HTV Wales established a new accredited Carlton recognises that the people it employs are critical to performing arts course in Cardiff Bay for ethnic minority its business success.
Carlton is a socially responsible employer.
students and also provided four placements to graduates Carlton has a professionally qualified Human Resources with disabilities.
department which reports to the Group Human Resources These are just examples of the many projects that Director who sits on the Group Executive Board of Carlton Carltons regions support, either through sponsorship, Communications Plc.
Human Resource management within workshops, training, bursaries or work experience to help the Group is aligned to a strategic framework, that is improve greater representation both on and off screen.
approved by the Board, and which covers organisation design, resourcing, performance, development, reward, communication, diversity and health & safety.
42 Line managers are recognised within Carlton as the key induction and briefings.
In addition, managers receive diversity people managers within the business.
Carlton equips its awareness training.
managers to manage, assess and develop their teams.
Carlton Carlton has introduced a corporate-wide health and runs management briefing sessions for line managers on core safety management system that is endorsed by the Group management activities from Diversity and Health & Safety to Executive Board and reinforced through a structured training Performance Review.
Specific management training and programme cascaded from the Chief Executive to individual development needs are identified through managers own employees.
Carlton has similarly introduced a whistle blowing performance reviews.
Performance reviews are conducted formally for the majority of employees at least once per year.
Individuals Environment training and development needs are identified at the Carltons environmental impacts arise from its studios, offices performance review to supplement training needs that and transport.
The main issues are our contribution to global Carlton has identified as core for specific groups of warming, use of resources and generation of waste.
The Group environment committee coordinates Formal policies are in place for key areas of employment, environmental improvement initiatives and has been for example Equal Opportunities, Sexual and Racial instrumental in setting Carltons first company-wide reduction Harassment, Recruitment, Discipline, Grievance, Internet and targets for energy use and recycling.
The group targets are to e-mail use, Health and Safety, and Family Friendly measures, reduce energy use by 6 per cent over three years and to and are brought to the attention of employees via direct increase paper recycling by 5 per cent in one year.
issue, induction, briefings and training.
A combination of proactive management, consolidation of Carlton is a competitive employer in terms of offices and a reduction in staff numbers have all contributed compensation and benefits with bonus and share option to reduced environmental impacts this year.
schemes in place to reward contribution and ally incentives Global warming: The total amount of carbon dioxide with business objectives.
emitted from energy and transport fell by 10 per cent in Company-wide communication takes place via two-way 2001 2002.
This reduction is mainly due to consolidation of meetings, briefings and the intranet.
Consultation takes place office facilities and a decrease in staff numbers.
Reported on key employment issues with employee representatives, transport fuel use has also decreased due to improved direct with individuals and trades unions where appropriate.
The Company does not discriminate between employees Carlton Studios did not achieve its target to reduce or potential employees on grounds of sex, sexual orientation, energy use reported last year due to an increase in marital status, religion, colour, race, ethnic origin, age or programme production activity at the Nottingham site.
Full and fair consideration is given to the Recycling: All except for one of our offices have recycling recruitment, promotion and training of disabled people.
schemes for paper and toner cartridges.
The amount of paper To enable the appointment, or continued employment, of recycled decreased by 13 per cent in 2001 2002 for the reasons a disabled person reasonable adjustments are made to the stated above.
Most of our toner cartridges are recycled.
The job, workplace, or way in which the work is organised number recycled decreased this year due to the replacement and retraining provided wherever possible.
This year Carlton of small printers with Xerox copier machines at Carlton has launched a disability action-plan which has included Television the Xerox cartridges are much larger than toner traineeships in production for disabled employees.
cartridges requiring less frequent replacement.
Our service Carlton sets and manages standards in relation to equal contract ensures that all Xerox cartridges are recycled.
opportunities, for example via its recruitment standards and In 2001 2002 Carlton Television purchased approximately guidelines, access to training and promotion and legal briefings 120 tonnes of white paper and recycled approximately for managers.
Employees are made aware of the Companys 48 tonnes 40 per cent which includes other sources of position on equal opportunities and diversity via policy, waste paper such as newspapers and card.
Water use: The amount of water used fell by 2 per cent 18 2,000 in 2001 2002.
Most of our buildings have water meters and 16 we estimate that the data covers over 70 per cent of the 14 business.
1,500 12 Ozone depletion:We have cooling systems at many of 10 our locations to prevent television equipment from 1,000 overheating and for air conditioning in the summer.
Our 8 sealed systems hold 2.3 tonnes of HCFCs an ozone 6 500 depleting gas.
There were no releases of HCFCs reported in 4 2001 2002.
2 0 0 n Transport n Energy Paper recycled tonnes Water use million litres 120 40.0 35.0 100 30.0 80 25.0 60 20.0 15.0 40 10.0 20 5.0 0 0 Water data for 2000 2001 has been restated due to a reporting error CO emissions by source 2 Company car fleet 8% Other fuels 6% Gas 18% Electricity 68% 44
