Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Community Uganda supported the Nsumba is at the core of our values.
Standard Our community programmes mainly Childrens Home as a rehabilitation centre Chartered believes that with appropriate target those countries in Asia, Africa and to train and counsel street children.
policies and practices in place it can the Middle East from which we derive our Zambia supported a University Teaching be a legitimate inuence for good.
In 2002 $3.9 million was spent on Hospital Paediatrics wing in Lusaka.
It does this by promoting high standards such initiatives.
Apart from funding many of socially responsible business in the of the projects, staff are encouraged Middle East and South Asia emerging markets.
A new corporate to take part in activities to support Bangladesh employees donated social responsibility website was the community.
blood to the Bangladesh National Blood launched in 2002.
This details policies Bank, cleaned up the childrens ward and procedures put in place to enable Living with HIV of the Islamiya Eye hospital and also Standard Chartered to meet or exceed We won several awards for our HIV AIDS donated mosquito nets and food the legal, ethical, commercial and public staff education programme Staying Alive packets to patients.
expectations of the communities rolled out to Africa staff in 2000.
The Bank Lebanon supported the SOS Childrens in which it operates.
The Bank strongly is now committed to roll out its new Village through donations and childrens supports the trend toward delivering Living with HIV education programme visits to the Bank for a learning experience.
shareholder value in a socially, ethically to all employees by December 2003. and environmentally responsible manner.
Training of staff champions will Sri Lanka provided support to continue through 2003.
We share Vajira Rehabilitation Childrens Home This has been recognised externally.
the programmes we have developed and Maharagama Cancer Hospital.
Standard Chartered has been a member with other corporations, government The Bank has donated a heavy-duty of FTSE4Good since its launch institutions and community groups.
suction unit, TV, furniture and medicine in July 2001.
FTSE4Good is a Socially to the hospital.
Responsible Investment index that Seeing is Believing only includes companies reaching certain Nepal supported an education In February 2003, we launched a global standards of corporate social responsibility.
programme for young girls through campaign in partnership with Sight The Company has publicly declared the United Nations Womens organisation Savers International to raise enough its support for the United Nations Global project Kamlarni Scholarship Programme.
funds to restore the sight of 28,000 Compact and the OECD Guidelines people.
The campaign was initially India continued to support Pratham for Multinational Business.
It is an active launched in Bangladesh.
Delhi an education initiative to provide member of the Prince of Wales International pre-school education for street children, Business Leaders Forum and has been Africa Victoria Memorial School for the blind and included in Morley Fund Managements The Community Partnership for Africa, an exhibition and sale of articles produced Sustainability Matrix.
begun in 2001, sets aside $1million per by developmentally handicapped children For the latest environmental report and annum for worthy high impact projects.
more detail on community projects please Ghana in partnership with Water visit the CSR website: North East Asia Aid donated 100 wells to support www.
com ourbeliefs Hong Kong the Hong Kong Council the provision of clean drinking water of Social Service awarded the Bank to 100 villages.
with the Caring Company Award Kenya donated 27 maize mills and 2002 2003.
The award recognises six boreholes to provide food and water Standard Chartereds long-term to the community.
commitment to the community and dedicated support of the many staff who volunteer to help charities.
20 Standard Chartered Standard Chartered supports many youth We are part of the fabric of the projects in the area of health and education.
In India the Bank supports Prem Dan Learning Centre and the Victoria Memorial School for local community.
In Hong Kong and Singapore the Bank sponsors marathons which raise considerable and procedures ensure that we funds for charity.
The Community Partnership for Africa oversees promote high standards of socially many worthy projects on the continent including the refurbishment of the Kurasini Orphanage responsible business ethics.
21 Corporate Social Responsibility Continued Hong Kong raised HK$1.8 million Peru supported the Santa Rosa Possible environmental risks are $230,770 for the Hong Kong Sports Community Project in Peru to replace managed by an environmental and Association for the Physically Disabled the existing makeshift classroom made social credit risk policy.
In a recent study, through the 2002 Hong Kong marathon.
of wooden poles, cardboard and plastic ISIS concluded that Standard Chartered For the fifth year, the Bank has sponsored sheets.
The classroom is for 28 nursery had engaged in a serious review of the Asian Youth Orchestras rehearsal school children aged 35. environmental credit risk assessment, camp in Hong Kong, the Childrens and established policies and operating United Kingdom supported the Tower Heart Fund and the Youth Arts festival.
procedures in their home markets.
Taiwan adopted and developed Standard Chartered staff volunteered Improvements in our management Victoria Garden, a small park outside and provided interviewing skills, mentoring, of environmental issues have also begun our agship branch in Taipei.
reading and numerical learning for children to be reected in external benchmarks.
In the United Kingdom, the Business South East Asia in the Environment Index of Corporate Thailand in co-operation with the Thailand Environment Environmental Engagement improved Business Initiative for Rural Development 2002 saw significant progress its rating of the Bank.
Additionally we handed over a village meeting centre on environmental matters.
In 2001 we became a signatory to the United Nations at Ang Hin.
The centre will be used published our first environmental report Environmental Programme UNEP as a venue for vocational training, which concentrated on preliminary work Statement on the Environment and a library and a meeting place.
in the United Kingdom, and presented Sustainable Development.
management and performance targets Singapore sponsored a series We also continued to support a number for subsequent years.
In 2002 this was of monthly lunches for 90 elderly of environmental projects across the followed with the launch of a three-year one-room at dwellers.
To mark our environmental global environmental management commitment and to raise awareness Indonesia provided support programme.
This programme has among staff, customers and the to the elementary school for children developed a global environmental community, we launched a Clean and of low-income earners.
management system designed Green campaign in October.
Various to formally manage the Banks most activities took place during the week, United Kingdom and the Americas significant operational impacts such which included an environmental quiz United States staff volunteered to paint as waste production and energy use.
on the website, recycling of clothing and refurbish a primary school in the Bronx It is currently being implemented and computer materials, conservation section of New York City.
in 19 locations in seven countries, of energy and joining in community covering 40 per cent of staff.
projects to protect the environment.
Bank employees in Venezuela participate in tree planting during Standard Chartereds Clean and Green week.
22 Standard Chartered There follow a few examples of the many Brunei Qatar environmental projects that have taken Staff in Darussalam were involved Standard Chartered employees place this year around the world.
in a beach cleaning exercise which in Qatar collected 50 bags of garbage included the replanting of vegetation from the Crescent of Isle Banana to Africa and release of 150 young turtles into support conservation and cleanliness.
Staff from 13 territories in Africa planted the South China Sea.
Bahrain Philippines Standard Chartered Bahrain Kenya All employees in the Philippines received won an award from the Electricity Standard Chartered Kenya sponsored a green book, which provided staff with and Water Ministry for a power the 31st Annual World Environment useful information about the environment, conservation programme.
Day promoted by the United Nations including recycling, energy conservation, The Bank held a charity walk to raise Environment Programme UNEP.
funds for sponsoring a 72-page book About 100 staff joined 150 youth on environmental issues.
groups in a Clean Up campaign Nepal and raised the local communitys The Bank donated 25 personal United Kingdom environmental awareness.
computers to Shree Tilingtar Higher The Bank issued green paper recycling Secondary School at Dhapasi collection boxes to every employee.
Now more than 3,000 kilos of paper Staff in Shanghai participated in the are recycled each week.
cleaning of the Huang Pu River while Malaysia a team from Shenzen participated A plant gala was organised at one of our A what a turn off campaign was in a beach cleaning exercise.
branches and more than 300 ornamental introduced to encourage staff to switch plants of all types were donated for sale.
off the lights and other equipment when India not in use 950 kilowatts of energy Staff cleaned a park and planted near Pakistan are saved each week.
the Sarita Vihar slum in New Delhi.
Staff supported a kidney centre for six Details of this and the progress planned years via an annual donation of $25,000, The Bank partnered with the South for next year can be found in our second sponsored Art students at Indus Valley Chennai Chapter of Exnora and environmental report available at: School for six years via ArtFest and ONYX organised the Clean Up www.
com ourbeliefs donated over 200 computers to schools Marina Beach campaign.
Standard Chartered Ghana contributes to improving peoples life by giving access to clean water.
100 wells have been donated to 100 villages.
21employees of the Bank scaled Mount Kinabalu in Malaysia raising funds for charity.
