Environmental statement P&O Princess Cruises is committed to helping to conserve the natural environment.
To minimise harmful impacts that may be associated with our wastes and discharges, we have sought to adopt more efficient operational and management practices and to equip our ships with improved treatment technologies.
Managing our fossil fuel consumption and associated air emissions is of prime importance.
We strive to reduce emissions levels through investing in the development of new technologies and through effective fuel management programmes.
The majority of our ships under construction are being fitted with environmentally cleaner engines designed to reduce nitrogen oxide and particulate emissions.
Coral Princess is the first in the series of newbuilds to be in operation with these environmental technologies.
Island Princess, Diamond Princess and Sapphire Princess will also be fitted with similar technologies.
We are working with leading engine manufacturers to develop systems in order to enable control technologies to be retrofitted to other newbuilds and older vessels in the fleet.
Our shore power system in Juneau, Alaska has been operating successfully and we have now equipped six ships in our fleet with the appropriate connections.
While in port, the connected ship is able to turn off its diesel generators and boilers and run all onboard services from surplus hydroelectric power and from shore based facilities, thereby cutting smoke emissions and fuel consumption.
Control of our sea emissions is also of primary importance and we continue to promote the development of innovative systems and processes to treat our ballast, bilge and wastewaters.
P&O Princess Cruises was one of the first cruise companies to trial and install technologies for effectively treating ballast water, with three of our ships now operating and testing various system designs.
We are in the process of equipping our ships with internationally approved coalescing and centrifugal oily water separators.
In addition, we are implementing a programme of fitting bio-membrane wastewater treatment technology systems to our new and existing ships.
P&O Princess Cruises also places a high priority on minimising and responsibly managing waste production and on ensuring that we have in place effective waste management standards as well as waste sorting and segregation policies.
Our waste minimisation initiatives include the use of digital x-ray equipment and water-based chemical dry-cleaning systems together with a programme to reduce the number of chemicals used on board.
AIDAvita, came into service doubling the capacity of our AIDA club brand Expansion of our river cruise activity in the German sector through continued overleaf
