Corporate responsibility Centrica community investment Older or disabled customers and their carers 19% Other 6% Support for motor related causes 31% Energy efficiency and fuel poverty 16% Education 19% Support for employees and local community 10% Bruno Peek OBE, chairman of the Golden Energy Angel Eleanor Whitehead whose school, Centricas community spend is focused on Jubilee Summer Party, test-fires the British Gas Little Gaddesden Primary, signed on for the a number of priority areas, linked to issues Jubilee Beacon that illuminated Buckingham next stage of British Gass award winning relevant to our business.
Palace during the weekend celebrations.
Our businesses are focused on helping our customers make We published our second its launch in September 2002 and delivering essential products and informed decisions about using environment report in March 2002. the end of the year, employees services to millions of people every our products and services in a raised more than 150,000. day.
Continued and sustainable way that minimises any negative We also promoted environmental success requires that we accept impact on the environment.
British good practice in the home through In North America, we launched and respond to our social Gas plays a leading role in helping our Think Energy education Direct in the Community.
By understanding to achieve the governments fuel programme for schools.
To date, The programme seeks to play our impact on society, the economy poverty and climate change more than 14,000 primary and a leadership role in fostering, and the wider environment, we can targets through the provision secondary schools in Britain have supporting and encouraging develop positive relationships with of free or subsidised energy signed up for the programme, charitable initiatives that provide stakeholders to benefit both efficiency products.
During our involving an estimated one million services related to safe and business and the community.
Energy Efficiency Standards of school children between the ages affordable housing, especially Performance EESoP programme, of 7 to 14.
The programme will be for adults, families, older people Corporate responsibility is integral which finished in April 2002, British extended to include 14 to 16 year and people with disabilities.
Our framework Gas provided 1.4 million energy olds from 2003.
During 2002, Think is set and co-ordinated by the efficient products to 585,000 Energy won a British Commitment The British Gas partnership with Centrica corporate responsibility households throughout Britain, to the Environment Premier Award.
Help the Aged continues to support committee that was formed in total saving 5,250 GWh of energy.
some of Britains most vulnerable in 2002.
Detailed information Community older people.
Since its launch in about our range of corporate From April 2002, EESoP was Our community programme 1999, British Gas has provided responsibility activities is available at replaced by the Energy Efficiency addresses issues relevant to our Help the Aged with more than www.
Commitment, a three year business and, where possible, 5.4 million of support and to programme with an energy saving we also support our employees date there have been 1.6 million The effectiveness of our target of around 27,000 GWh.
beneficiaries of partnership approach was illustrated by British Gas is on target to deliver Communities will benefit most initiatives.
The partnership Centricas inclusion in the 2002 these savings.
Key to this success from our investment if there is a received the Business in the FTSE4Good Index and, for the has been our ability to engage sound business case for it, since Community Excellence Award first time, in the Dow Jones customers through new product this provides the best foundation for cause related marketing in July.
Sustainability Indexes for 2003. innovation and groundbreaking for sustained involvement.
Through our We have enjoyed a successful We are aware not only of the Warm-A-Life programme, more than We contributed 5.66 million association with Carers UK since positive business potential of 70,000 disadvantaged customers to community causes in 2002 1996.
In 2002 we sought to identify demonstrating our commitment have received a range of benefits as measured by the London hidden carers and guide them to to corporate responsibility, but including free insulation products, Benchmarking Group model, information, advice and support.
also of the negative impact of benefits assessment to ensure that which includes both cash and Promotion, including a bill message poor performance in this area.
they are claiming everything that in-kind support.
to more than two million customers, they are entitled to and discounts also generated awareness among Corporate responsibility concerns on British Gas energy bills.
Our UK charity of the year initiative our employees about Centricas have been fully integrated into enables employees across the carer friendly employment the groups risk management In 2002, we worked hard on group to raise funds for a charity policies.
These address the delivering our environmental chosen by a panel of employees.
is president of the charity.
financial impact on the business programme.
Notable improvements From April 2001 until July 2002, our of social and environmental threats included increasing the recycling partner was the Cystic Fibrosis Trust The AA Accessible Hotel of the Year as well as the potential impact on in our offices from 18% to 34% and and our employees raised more Awards highlight the importance the reputation of our brands.
improving their energy efficiency by than 475,000 to fund vital research of ensuring equal access for implementing projects that saved and treatment for the UKs most people with disabilities to hotels Our corporate responsibility activities more than 4.5 million kWh per common life threatening inherited and guest accommodation in the fall into four main categories: annum.
In terms of environmental disease.
The partnership received lead up to the next phase of the management, sites that were an Institute of Public Relations Disability Discrimination Act Environment certified to ISO14001 have Sword of Excellence award in July.
During 2002, AA hotel Our prime responsibility is completed their reassessment inspectors assessed 60 hotels managing the impact of our and the British Gas Service Centres We hope for similar success and guest houses selected from the operations on the environment.
and AA Service Centres achieved with our new chosen charity, results of a detailed questionnaire We also have a responsibility for certification for the first time.
Between returned from more than 300 of the Centrica plc report 2002 19 Corporate responsibility continued Material recycled from Centrica offices % 35 30 25 20 15 10 Recycling rate Target for 2005 5 0 2000 2001 2002 The success of our recycling initiatives has Sir Roy Gardner is joined by meningitis sufferer Employees in Cardiff ride the worlds largest Rod Kenyon, director of the British Gas meant that we have already exceeded our Samuel Cloke to launch the Every Second bicycle to raise funds for Cystic Fibrosis Trust, Engineering Academy, is joined by a group target for 2005, initially set in 2000.
Counts partnership a year-long partnership with Centrica employee charity of the year 2001 of trainees to launch the academy.
our employee charity of the year, Meningitis Trust.
The awards We have reviewed the needs how we expect our employees government backed Ambition will be repeated in 2003 to make of hearingand speech-impaired to act in a variety of situations.
Energy programme, chaired by more establishments aware of the customers in collaboration with This is being disseminated in 2003.
Centricas chief executive, to need for improved accessibility.
the RNID and the Royal Association address an anticipated shortage of for Deaf People.
Text phones have The growing diversity among skilled and qualified gas engineers.
The AA Foundation for Road Safety been installed throughout the our customers and employees Research published reports in 2002 business and the AA has developed presents us with opportunities We are delighted that, in on the safety of young male and a text messaging service so that for change.
In an increasingly recognition of its commitment female drivers, when and why older hearing and speech-impaired competitive environment, it is to the development and training drivers give up driving and on safety members can communicate essential that we recognise of its employees, the AA has in pan-European tunnels.
During effectively via their mobile phones.
the importance of operating as received corporate Investors the year, research continued on the an inclusive organisation, in People accreditation.
effect of surface conditions on road The British Gas here to HELP through embracing diversity safety and accidents on high speed initiative was launched in 2002 in the workforce and selecting Nearly three quarters of our dual carriageways.
to help tackle household poverty the very best employees from employees took part in the annual in the most deprived communities a wide and varied choice of global employee satisfaction survey In December, it was announced that in Britain.
We work with a number in 2002, up from under two thirds in One.
Tel would be working with the of 150 million, British Gass of partners to achieve this goal 2000.
The survey measures four Samaritans, the emotional health investment of more than 70 million including the Employers Forum key improvement drivers charity, to promote its new telephone is supported by additional on Disability, an organisation customer focus, performance directory enquiries service.
During government and social housing chaired by our chief executive.
Tel will donate 1p for provider funding.
Over the next impact and working life.
Part of every call made to the new service three years, 500,000 homes will Diversity modules form part of the performance related element generating vital funds for the charity.
be supported in urban, suburban the training for all our customer of directors remuneration is linked and rural areas through a network facing employees and a disability to this survey.
Marketplace of local authorities, housing awareness training package has We try to take a responsible associations and charity also been developed.
More than The health and safety of our approach to the marketing organisations.
Households are 29,000 booklets giving practical employees is of paramount and selling of our products offered energy efficiency measures advice on how best to serve importance.
Our performance is and services.
We take care of and advice along with other services disabled people have been targeted and monitored through our customers daily essentials and delivered by our charity partners.
provide the necessary access In 2002, the amount of time lost and expertise to ensure they benefit Workplace We have created employment to injuries or occupational ill health fully from the products and services Relationships with all our opportunities for individuals was low.
Injuries have been we offer.
For example, we currently employees are based on trust from disadvantaged backgrounds.
attributable mainly to slips, provide over 500 communications and respect for the individual.
More than 180 individuals have trips and falls, and our accident each day to customers who are We aim to attract, develop, been employed through targeted prevention programmes focus blind or visually impaired in the reward and retain high quality recruitment in our contact centres.
on the underlying causes of these format they require, which includes people who are motivated to In July 2002 we received a Business and other near miss events.
Braille, large print and audio.
in the Community award for our Our employment policies seek investment in disabled people We have also taken steps to Some of our customers have to create an environment that as employees and customers.
protect employees who may specific needs.
Current services motivates and engages all our encounter violence while they include the Home Energy Care employees, rewards performance, British Gas has committed to do their jobs, for example gas Register, the password scheme, and satisfies material needs whilst recruiting 200 gas engineers, engineers, roadside patrols providing information in alternative supporting equality of opportunity targeting the long term unemployed and debt collectors.
We have formats and using access for all.
This is achieved through and those who have trouble finding launched an occupational technology such as text phones.
policies such as family leave, a career that fits in with their road risk programme to manage We have developed our own website carers, personal development lifestyle.
The engineer training the risks to employees who accessibility guidelines based on and supporting employees to find course, developed with the Gas drive in the course of their internationally recognised standards a successful balance between and Water Industries National employment.
Good practice and intend that all our business work and personal life.
A new guide Training Organisation, includes workshops share new safety websites will meet and exceed to sound business practice was a part-time option aimed at single techniques and opportunities these standards in the near future.
developed in 2002, setting out parents.
The initiative is part of the for performance improvement.
