AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F 2002 Operational Review www.
com 29 Corporate Responsibility CR We believe good CR With a global workforce of over 58,000 people, We also made good progress during the year our employees have always represented a in further developing our CR framework in performance depends on significant part of our corporate responsibility.
other areas, including the publication of achieving an appropriate We are committed to ensuring their health, supporting policies and principles such as our balance between the economic, safety and wellbeing within a culture of equal Bioethics Policy, reflecting our commitment to environmental and social priorities opportunity in which people feel valued, high ethical standards in our R&D processes supported and rewarded for their individual and our Purchasing Principles, designed to of sustainable development.
encourage and support our suppliers in Communication with and feedback from our embracing similar CR standards to our own.
AstraZenecas business is focused on employees is very important to us and delivering shareholder value by maintaining opportunities for feedback are integrated into Measuring our performance is essential to a flow of new medicines that benefit society all our communication programmes.
We also our understanding of the progress we are through improved healthcare.
We recognise use a two-yearly global employee survey to making and for identifying potential areas that to be able to achieve this in the longer identify areas of both satisfaction and concern.
Whilst we have longterm, we must continue to be welcomed The first of these in 2000 indicated the progress standing measurement processes in place as a valued member of society.
Good AstraZeneca had made in its first year: people for monitoring our economic, environmental, management of our wider responsibilities as a were proud to be associated with the Company safety and health performance, we recognise global business is key to our continued and were clear about and committed to, the need to broaden our approach in other success.
The survey also highlighted areas of social performance.
To that end, we some challenges including managing heavy have been reviewing our data-processing This is not a new concept for AstraZeneca workloads and maintaining the right balance systems to ensure that, where possible, we have always worked to high ethical between work and home life.
The results of further social responsibility performance standards.
Our CR programme is an our second survey in 2002 indicated major indicators are included.
We are also evolution of that commitment, building on our improvements overall, comparing favourably working to include more CR issues in existing policies and best practice to provide with external global benchmarks and including our annual compliance report by senior a global platform for ensuring appropriate good progress in previous areas of concern.
management to the AstraZeneca Board and consistent behaviour worldwide.
Improvement is a continuous process and the letter of assurance and in our the 2002 survey highlighted other areas for internal audit processes.
In 2002 we published our CR Policy, followed attention such as opportunities for improving by CR Management Standards and advice the speed of decision-making and crossAn essential part of our corporate for implementation.
One of the priorities for company collaboration.
Recommendations responsibility is to continue to operate to 2003 is to continue to communicate these on how improvements can be made are high standards of corporate governance.
widely within the Company to ensure the being developed across the Company.
This has been reinforced by recent high integration of CR into all of our activities Implementation in specific areas is the profile incidences of financial irregularities worldwide.
responsibility of the relevant functional and which have resulted in heightened public territorial management.
attention on areas such as financial reporting, The medicines that we discover improve accounting procedures and directors patients health and quality of life.
They also Wherever AstraZeneca is located worldwide, remuneration.
The recent US Sarbanes-Oxley relieve pressure on healthcare systems by we aim to be responsible members of our legislation and other similar initiatives being reducing incidence of disease or the time local communities through charitable introduced in response to these events are needed for treatment.
In addition, they help donations, sponsorships and other initiatives requiring changes to corporate governance to improve productivity by reducing the that help to make a positive difference.
A processes in a number of areas that will time taken off work through illness.
Our recent challenge for us has been to identify further reinforce good practice.
business activities also bring other economic the full extent of our community support benefits to the communities around us initiatives throughout the Group and to In addition to the processes for employees for through local employment and wages, make sure that the information can be expressing concerns outlined in our Code of taxes, community support and sourcing of shared internally to promote good practice.
Conduct, during 2002 the AstraZeneca local and national materials and services.
During 2002, we issued a new community Board nominated Sir Peter Bonfield as the support policy to provide global guidelines senior Non-Executive Director contact for Managing AstraZenecas environmental for local management.
In particular, we investors wishing to raise high-level concerns impact continues to be a priority and our focus on bringing benefit in ways that are to ensure clear lines of communication on any attention is focused in particular on areas consistent with our business of improving potential corporate governance issues.
where we believe our global business has the health and quality of life, and on promoting Further information about corporate greatest potential impact, including climate the value of science among young people.
governance is provided in the Directors change arising from energy use and use of The policy also encompasses reporting of Report on pages 44 to 48. propellants in some of our inhalation local initiatives through a central database, products and ozone-depletion through use developed and launched during 2002 to More information about our 2002 CR of CFC propellants.
We have effective address the need for improved data collection performance is provided in the separate 2002 management processes and systems in and information sharing.
In 2002, our Corporate Responsibility Summary Report place to support achievement of the targets community support totalled $316 million and on our website.
we set ourselves in these areas and ensure $303 million of which covered product continuous improvement.
donations at average wholesale price.
