17 Unilever Annual Review 2001 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Unilever is committed to working towards sustainable development in three areas where we can make a real difference: agriculture, fisheries and water care.
In 2001, we reached milestones in each of these areas.
Three-quarters of the raw materials we use to make Unilever In 2000, which is the most recent year for which we have data, products come from agriculture.
For the future of our supply our targets on environmental management were largely achieved.
chain and the wider environment it is vital that the crops We continued to reduce the environmental impact of all our we use are grown in a sustainable way.
key performance indicators, including water, energy and carbon dioxide.
We met four of six challenging eco-efficiency targets In 2001, we made considerable advances in our pioneering in our manufacturing operations.
This was achieved with an initiative to develop standards for sustainable agriculture.
During 2001, we introduced Following extensive international pilot projects, we drafted new software tools to allow us to collect and publish provisional guidelines for sustainable tea and palm oil environmental data more swiftly.
We are now working on guidelines for peas, spinach and tomatoes.
For the third consecutive year we topped our industry sector in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Indexes.
We also achieved milestones in the two other areas where we are working to make a real difference sustainable fisheries and Our Environment Report is available at water care.
During the year, we included sustainably sourced www.
white fish in our frozen foods for the first time.
Products including this fish now carry the Marine Stewardship Council logo.
This is another step towards our target of sourcing all fish from sustainable stocks by 2005.
In water care, we continued to work with our partners to secure safe, sustainable water resources to meet the needs of people and nature everywhere.
We published, and widely promoted, the SWIM Sustainable Water and Integrated Catchment Management guidelines.
These provide a practical framework for working with partners on water stewardship schemes.
One example of such a scheme is our involvement in the Global Nature Funds Living Lakes initiative, which grew to 11 local partnerships in 2001.
Following our leadership of the CEOs Panel at the 2000 World Water Forum, we continued to work towards meeting our forum commitments.
Our progress will be presented at the 2003 World Water Forum in Kyoto.
In another indication of our environmental leadership, we accepted an invitation to join the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment Board.
This United Nations-led initiative is bringing together international environmental research to assess the state of the global ecosystem.
Above In 2001, we included sustainably sourced white fish in our frozen fish products for the first time.
Products including the fish, New Zealand hoki, now carry the Marine Stewardship Council logo.
