Shareholder information Control of Unilever 141 Leverhulme Trust The depositary receipts issued by Nedamtrust against The first Viscount Leverhulme was the founder of the NV shares are known as Nedamtrust certicates.
They are company which became PLC.
When he died in 1925, in bearer form, and are traded and quoted on the Euronext he left in his will a large number of PLC shares in various Stock Exchange and other European stock exchanges.
The High Court of Justice in England varied these trusts Nedamtrust has issued certicates for NVs ordinary and in 1983, and established two independent charitable trusts: 7% cumulative preference shares, and almost all the NV shares traded and quoted in Europe are in the form of these the Leverhulme Trust, which awards grants for research certicates.
The exception is that there are no certicates for and education, and NVs 4%, 6% and 0.05 cumulative preference shares.
the Leverhulme Trade Charities Trust, for the benefit of members of trades which the first Viscount considered If you hold Nedamtrust certicates you can attend or to have particular associations with the business.
appoint a proxy at NV shareholders meetings.
If you wish to vote at a meeting, on your request Nedamtrust will give The major assets of both these trusts are PLC you a power of attorney to vote.
If you hold Nedamtrust ordinary shares.
certicates with a bank or broker in the Netherlands and have notied the Shareholders Communication Channel When the will trusts were varied in 1983 the interests of see page 45, you will receive a proxy form enabling you the beneciaries of his will were also preserved.
Four classes to authorise and instruct Nedamtrust to vote at the NV of special shares were created in Margarine Union 1930 shareholders meeting on your behalf.
Nedamtrust is Limited, a subsidiary of PLC.
One of these classes can be obliged to follow these instructions.
converted at the end of the year 2038, into a maximum of 157 500 000 PLC ordinary shares of 1.4p each.
These For shares for which Nedamtrust does not receive convertible shares replicate the rights which the descendants instructions, Nedamtrusts Board decides on the best way of the Viscount would have had under his will.
This class of to vote the NV ordinary and preference shares it holds at the special shares only has a right to dividends in specified shareholders meetings.
Trust companies in the Netherlands circumstances, and no dividends have yet been paid.
will not usually vote to inuence the operations of PLC guarantees the dividend and conversion rights of companies, and in the past Nedamtrust has always followed the special shares.
However, if a change to shareholders rights is proposed Nedamtrust will let shareholders know if it intends The first Viscount wanted the trustees of the trusts he to vote, at least 14 days in advance if possible.
It will do this established to be directors of PLC.
On 28 February 2003 the by advertising in the press, but it will not necessarily say trustees of both the charitable trusts and the will trust were: which way it is planning to vote.
Sir Michael Angus former Chairman of PLC As a holder of Nedamtrust certicates you can exchange Sir Michael Perry former Chairman of PLC your Nedamtrust certicate at any time for the underlying Mr N W A FitzGerald Chairman of PLC ordinary or preference share or vice versa.
Dr J I W Anderson former director Dr A S Ganguly former director Hitherto the majority of votes cast by ordinary and preference shareholders at NV meetings have been cast On 28 February 2003, in their capacity as trustees of the by Nedamtrust.
two charitable trusts, they held approximately 5.38% of PLCs issued ordinary capital.
Nedamtrusts NV shareholding uctuates daily its holdings on 28 February 2003 were: N. V. Nederlandsch Administratieen Trustkantoor Nedamtrust Ordinary shares of 0.51: 471 163 741 82.43% Nedamtrust is an independent trust company under the 7% Cumulative Preference Shares of 453.78: Netherlands law, which has an agreement with NV to issue 9 820 33.86% depositary receipts against NV shares.
We do not control 6% Cumulative Preference Shares of 453.78: Nedamtrust it is a wholly owned subsidiary of N. V. 6 0.00% Algemeen Nederlands Trustkantoor ANT ANT.
Five Dutch 4% Cumulative Preference Shares of 45.38: financial institutions hold 45% of ANTs shares between 23 0.00% them they have between 5% and 10% each, and the rest of its shares are owned by a large number of Material modications to the rights of security holders individual shareholders.
On 10 May 1999 the share capitals of NV and PLC were each consolidated see notes to NV and PLC Dividends tables As part of its corporate objects Nedamtrust is able to: on page 147.
Otherwise there have been no material modications to the rights of security holders.
issue depositary receipts: carry out administration for the shares which underlie depositary receipts it has issued: and exercise voting rights for these underlying shares.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
