18 BEHIND THE BRANDS RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE BEHAVIOUR A commitment to high standards of corporate behaviour has always been part of our operating tradition.
In 2001, we outlined what this commitment means to us today with the publication of our first international Social Review.
Responsible corporate behaviour is central to Unilevers business management.
In 2001, we made our approach to corporate social responsibility more explicit with the publication of our first international Social Review.
The Review maps out how we interact with society and the many different stakeholders with an interest in our business.
Almost 20 000 copies of the Review, which can be viewed at, www.
com environmentsociety societywere downloaded during its first year online.
Learning from this first Review, and from the many reporting initiatives in this area, work is underway to update the information during 2002.
Unilevers commitment to high standards of corporate behaviour is spelt out in our Code of Business Principles.
The Code sets the framework for our operational standards, covering issues such as employee health and safety, product quality, relations with governments, ethical behaviour and environmental impact.
During the year we updated the Code, in line with the evolving standards expected of international companies, for roll-out in 2002.
Debate about the appropriate extent of corporate social responsibility has continued.
By meeting the needs of consumers worldwide, Unilevers branded products and services help to raise living standards and improve quality of life.
Our operations add value by efficiently processing raw materials and effectively marketing and distributing our brands.
This value is then shared among our many stakeholders worldwide including shareholders, employees, suppliers and governments.
Communities also benefit through our voluntary contributions.
In 2001, we spent approximately 157 million 35 million, $51 million on community programmes.
Our voluntary support focuses on projects that improve Top healthcare, raise levels of education and encourage local Lifebuoys Friendship Hospital boat brings mucheconomic, environmental and cultural activity.
In Bangladesh, needed access to healthcare and hygiene education for example, Lifebuoy worked with a local partner to sponsor in rural Bangladesh.
It aims to provide free treatment a hospital boat that will deliver basic healthcare services to and medicine to around 30 000 patients each year.
people in rural areas while, in the US, Unilever Bestfoods is Centre working with Hunger Free America to raise awareness about Around 12 million children in the US suffer from the damaging effects of childhood hunger.
Unilever Bestfoods produced Cooking up an end to Childhood Hunger, which contains recipes We are pleased to report that, in 2001, Unilever received the and statements from celebrities to help generate Global Business Council on HIV and AIDS Award for Business involvement in ending childhood hunger within Excellence.
This followed many years of preventative and five years.
educative work by Unilever companies and individual Bottom employees, particularly in Africa and Brazil.
Our programmes Extending knowledge gained from workplace have built on the good working practices we have developed programmes into local communities, customer care with regard to HIV and AIDS.
We have been able to use such centre employee Harold Bokaba volunteers as a peer expertise to help raise awareness among the communities in group educator and counsellor to take Unilevers which we operate.
message on the fight against HIV and AIDS into Vosloorus township, South Africa.
