19 Unilever Annual Review 2001 A PASSION FOR WINNING Our people are vital to our success.
In 2001, we introduced a range of initiatives aimed at spreading a passion for winning and a can do attitude through all levels of the business.
We are committed to building an enterprise culture: one that We also successfully launched open job posting.
By acts as a springboard for individual and business success.
communicating management vacancies company-wide, this system ensures that selection is fair and transparent.
It was This strategy can be brought to life in numerous ways, reflecting rolled out globally early in 2002. our culturally diverse roots.
In South Africa, Unifoods uses an actor called the Can Do Man to help celebrate success.
This In 2001, we extended the Reward for Growth programme and character, who appears unannounced, is among various tools as a result over 6 000 managers worldwide qualify for executive used to reinforce Unifoods can do culture, with other devices share options and a new global variable pay scheme linked to including workshops, awards, videos and posters.
It is planned to extend the variable pay scheme to a of Can Do has been dramatic.
Employees have been infused further 15 000 employees.
with an entrepreneurial spirit which is reflected in Unifoods performance.
We want all Unilever managers throughout the world to embody this new enterprise culture.
To help build this commitment, in 2001 we ran a series of challenging international events for both rising and established managers.
At these workshops, people worked on their collective behaviours against stretching business targets.
Subsequently, local events were used to build this culture.
We reshaped our business, moving to a divisional structure and integrating the research and development functions into the divisions.
In line with our strategy, these changes will allow us to direct our efforts more effectively behind our leading brands.
The programme of disposals announced in 2000 as part of our brand focus, and the planned synergy savings from the Bestfoods integration, have both progressed well.
These initiatives led to a reduction of some 30 000 staff over the year.
We remain committed to dealing openly and fairly with all those affected.
Our IT systems provide essential support to our people.
The opening of a new European IT centre in the UK marked the completion of our global infrastructure programme.
The concentration of Unilevers IT infrastructure into a network of five centres around the world enables faster and more efficient support to our staff.
EMPLOYEES We are also simplifying the way we work to enable our people to concentrate on growing the business.
In Europe, for example, thousands we continued the integration of both our business processes Year end 2001 2000 1999 and IT systems across national boundaries.
Europe 71 80 74 Our leadership development focuses on building the skills North America 22 39 22 required to achieve our business goals.
For example, we assess Africa, Middle East and Turkey 49 48 50 Asia and Pacific 85 84 71 each managers ability to deliver growth, with the results shaping Latin America 38 44 29 personal development programmes.
In another move towards Total 265 295 246 nurturing the right leadership skills, we extended the Leaders into Action pilot programme to a wider group of managers.
The programme, which is part-residential and part-online, includes personal, business and community elements.
It has received an excellent response from participants.
