Report of the Directors About Unilever 11 Information technology in our European Foods business, we linked our factory In 2002, we continued to direct our IT towards achieving systems with our strategic suppliers.
This enables suppliers Unilevers strategic objectives.
to manage Unilever stock by looking into our systems to check current stock levels: We further simplied business processes and core transaction systems, building on our global partnership with in India, we connected more than 1 000 stockists to our SAP.
Through common information, processes and systems, systems, providing them with better stock control and we are accelerating the move to regional businesses and easier replenishment.
This led to higher sales growth and fully exploiting Unilevers scale.
With a light but disciplined inventory savings for customers.
touch to what is made common at a global level, we are making global synergies, while sharpening our focus on Environmental responsibility customers and consumers both locally and regionally.
The Productive farmland, thriving sh stocks and clean water are simplication of our IT infrastructure enabled these changes essential to our success.
Our desire to protect them goes while reaping further benets in cost savings, including the hand in hand with a growing determination in society to signing of our largest ever telecommunications deal, with conserve the planets resources.
This telecommunications services contract sees us reducing the number of suppliers around the world from In 2002, we continued to work on reducing our 400 to one.
environmental impact while increasing production, and measuring our performance against targets.
The latest Our global data warehouse, successfully established this data for 2001 is available at www.
com year, is key to achieving common information across environmentsociety.
We also reviewed and updated our Unilever and supporting our regional businesses.
On this environmental strategy to achieve continued long-term foundation, we have built information systems to track improvement in our environmental impact.
and manage Path to Growth achievement, with strategic applications for the supply chain and brand and customer Around the world more and more people enjoy our foods.
In the financial arena, our financial, We need to make our agricultural supply chain more management and brand reporting are being consolidated sustainable.
Our sustainable agriculture programme achieved into the same data warehouse, for completion in 2003. its first target by completing the protocols for sustainable These systems are providing Unilever with more management of all five key crops palm oil, tea, peas, comprehensive, consistent and immediate information spinach and tomatoes.
All the protocols were agreed in than ever before.
2002 with the Sustainable Agriculture Advisory Board.
They will shortly be published on www.
We successfully piloted our global e-business gateway, the For the benefit of the environment, we are sharing this Unilever Private Exchange.
The gateway, which becomes knowledge of good agricultural practice and we have jointly fully operational in 2003, strengthens our e-business established an industry Sustainable Agriculture Initiative.
capability by providing secure links between our operating companies and our suppliers and customers systems and Our progress in agriculture is matched by our commitment to external electronic marketplaces.
The success of these to sustainable sheries.
We bought more than a third of our marketplaces and gateways is, of course, dependent on sh from sustainable sources, of which 6% was certied to industry standards for electronic information exchange.
Marine Stewardship Council standards, including New Zealand hoki.
This represents good progress towards our Unilever demonstrated its commitment to industry standards target of buying all sh from sustainable sources by 2005. by co-chairing the Global Commerce Initiative, the worlds In Europe we continued to support the need for a more largest advisory group for voluntary data standards.
We are sustainable sheries policy.
working on an electronic catalogue of our products, based on these standards, which will simplify ordering for retailers.
Consumers need water to use our products, agriculture needs it for irrigation and it is used by our factories.
As part Some good examples of our exploitation of e-business of our global sustainability initiative, we extended our technology, building on the foundations established, include: partnership with Rhodes University in South Africa.
The Unilever Centre for Environmental Water Quality will branded websites and direct e-mail formed a fundamental focus on improving water management and ensuring part of new relationship marketing programmes targeting the availability of clean, freshwater resources.
our most valuable consumers and supporting our global brands: our Ariba online buying system enables purchases of nonproduction items to be made at volume-negotiated prices from selected suppliers.
Almost 2 000 Unilever people are now using Ariba in 24 countries: Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
