56 THE BRITISH LAND COMPANY PLC The Environment & Corporate Social Responsibility British Lands Environmental advisors and contractors involved in Property and Environment Group Management System acquisition, development and management Benchmarking Survey 2002 British Lands Environmental Management of our portfolio.
Our contractors and advisors This is the main survey for the property System is overseen by the Environment maintain procedures and records to industry run by Environmental Governance Committee and Environmental Performance demonstrate their compliance.
and was entered by 18 of the leading Review Panel.
British Land was Both are chaired by John Weston Smith Environmental Manual ranked 1st in the Property Sector category.
Director and Chief Operating Officer and The Environmental Manual sets out PEG acknowledged that this rise of five attended by Adrian Penfold Head of wide-ranging Environmental targets and places on last year constituted a step change Planning and Environment and Miles Price objectives, including the introduction of improvement in the Companys performance.
Planning Executive and Environment procedures for monitoring performance for Officer.
the Company as a whole corporate targets Corporate Social Responsibility CSR and for each business unit.
Corporate The Companys CSR objective is: Environment Committee environmental targets cover issues such as: To take into account the interests of all our The Environment Committee has overall reducing CO emissions and maximising stakeholders including our employees, our 2 control of all environmental matters and energy efficiency: promoting sustainable customers, our suppliers as well as the local exerts control over the Environmental transport for business trips: recycling: and community and the environment in which we Performance Review Panel.
Made up of staff training.
The tailored business unit operate Taken from the ABI Good senior Executives the Committee creates targets cover more specific issues such as: Corporation charter.
corporate environmental policy and ensuring preference is given to developing This objective is supported in the general objectives.
It also ensures compliance with brownfield sites wherever possible: auditing philosophy and actions of the business, and the latest environmental requirements placed the environmental performance of new office is being reflected through targets, measures on the business.
developments: assessing the environmental and procedures for monitoring of the The Environment Committee is advised by performance of potential investments, and Companys performance.
Performance will external Consultants who provide guidance making provision to recycle a range of waste be reported.
and verification of the Companys products at properties across the portfolio.
Particular emphasis is being placed in Engagement with Stakeholders 2002 on collecting energy consumption data British Land is a sustainable and responsible Environmental Performance Review Panel as part of the Companys commitment to business and recognises the importance EPRP reduce CO emissions.
All managing agents of maintaining long-term relationships with 2 The EPRP is responsible for setting, have been contacted and are aware of the all of its stakeholders.
These relationships reviewing and monitoring the environmental emphasis now being placed on environmental provide openness and transparency and objectives and targets set out in the issues and reporting.
They use a new British ensure that the Company delivers on Environmental Manual.
It is composed of Land web portal to provide meter readings stakeholder expectations.
one representative from each of the defined for the common part areas of all buildings The Company engages with a wide range business units within the Company, including within the portfolio.
of interested parties including: investors, the Meadowhall Shopping Centre and analysts, local authorities, local communities Broadgate Estates.
Regular meetings are held The EPRP representatives require that Recognition of British Lands progress over with Socially Responsible Investment their staff within their business units, and the past year can be seen in its ranking in Analysts to update them on the work that their agents, consultants and suppliers to both the Business in the Community and is taking place in-house and to explain the adhere to the Environmental Management the Property and Environment Group systems and procedures that are operating System and the objectives and targets set benchmarking surveys.
These surveys rate across the business.
out in the Internal Environmental Manual.
FTSE 250 and property companies against An example of communicating company The EPRP also ensures that the procedures their peers in relation to a range of policy can be seen in the publication in put in place provide the necessary information Environmental and Corporate Social 2001 of the British Land Biodiversity Report.
for the annual Environmental Report.
Responsibility issues: This report provides information on the Companys corporate approach to Ecology Environmental Policy Business in the Community 6th Index of and Biodiversity.
It case studies the Environmental Policy and Checklist Corporate Environmental Engagement Heathrow Gateway development in Feltham, The Environmental Policy and Checklist British Land was congratulated by BiE this and outlines the various steps that have is the corporate policy document on year for coming 1st in the Real Estate sector been taken both during and after the Environmental issues.
It provides guidance and for its improvement in performance, construction process to mitigate the impacts for staff and sets out what is required from compared with 4th last year.
on local habitats and wildlife populations.
Copies of this report are available in the Environment section of the Company The Environment & Corporate Social Responsibility The Environment & Corporate Social Responsibility THE BRITISH LAND COMPANY PLC 57 web site at www.
The British Land encourages employees to comply with the Articles as set out in the Biodiversity report complements the provide management support and financial United Nation's Universal Declaration of Environmental Policy and Checklist which advice to local community groups and local Human Rights.
is also available through the web site.
regeneration bodies eg: The West Euston British Land does not and will not invest Partnership and the Board of The or operate in foreign countries where there In the Community Middlesborough Groundwork Trust.
are known Human Rights violations or British Lands extensive property portfolio oppressive governments.
and development programme means that Employment and Labour Conditions it is a stakeholder in many communities It is British Land policy that staff are treated Annual Reporting throughout the UK.
The Company is aware with fairness, dignity and respect, and 2002 will see the launch of a series of major of the responsibilities and commitments provided with a good working environment.
initiatives in the areas of Environmental and that this entails.
Problems or worries of staff are listened to Corporate Social Responsibility reporting.
The amount of money donated to sympathetically, and any member of staff An Environmental Report will be produced charities and community initiatives is only experiencing difficulties is encouraged to annually from Autumn 2002, and will be one element of a comprehensive CSR consult management.
Job related training available in printed and electronic format strategy.
Monetary contributions are is available to all staff and staff are through the Company web site.
The important however, and in 2001 the encouraged to maximise their potential by Environment section of the British Land web Company provided over 795,000 cash and improving their skills and knowledge.
The site is also being revamped and will feature in-kind donations to fund a wide range of Company contributes towards tuition fees regular news and case study updates.
projects and programmes including: and provides paid study leave.
The Company A statement on CSR will also be Full participation in the West Euston encourages share ownership by its produced later in 2002.
It is our intention to Partnership Promoting Community employees through its employee share combine the Environmental and CSR reports Safety, Ethnic Integration and scheme and Save As You Earn share option in future years.
opportunities for local people, including scheme described on page 63.
It operates the provision of premises for a One Stop five pension schemes for its employees Shop at our Regents Place Estate.
Sponsoring of local initiatives and events British Land recognises the rights of its eg: Third Age Project Camden, Training employees to respect for family and private schemes Meadowhall Regional life and correspondence.
It recognises Shopping Centre Sheffield.
employees rights to freedom of thought, Funding for improved cleaning, security conscience, religion and expression, to and environmental improvements in the freedom of assembly and association, and to West End of London through the enjoy these freedoms without discrimination.
The Company has an Equal Opportunities British Chess Championships Policy and treats all job applicants and Nationwide competition.
employees in the same way, regardless of Community Information web sites eg: their sex, sexual orientation, race, ethnic www.
co. uk Meadowhall origin or disability.
co. uk Blythe Valley Health and Safety Park Solihull, www.
com at six The Company recognises its responsibility London locations.
to ensure that all reasonable precautions Funding for a Metropolitan Police bicycle are taken to provide and maintain working squad London.
conditions which are safe, healthy and Through its development programme the comply with all statutory requirements and Company also makes significant long term codes of practice.
Health and Safety policies contributions to the wider communities and and procedures are communicated to staff economies within which it is active.
These via training and the Staff Handbook, and contributions include new jobs and facilities, all managing agents are issued with the and improvements to local transport systems Company Health and Safety Manual.
through new infrastructure and services eg: cycle paths and new bus services.
These Human Rights are often provided in partnership with third British Land is committed to upholding parties such as local authorities and public International Human Rights standards and transport operators.
our business principles and operations 58 THE BRITISH LAND COMPANY PLC Site specific environmental initiatives Meadowhall Regional Shopping Centre Blythe Valley Business Park Mill Park Thatcham West Berkshire Sheffield South Yorkshire Solihull West Midlands This 36 acre project is being undertaken We reported last year that the Environmental This 170 acre business park is being jointly through the British Land Gazeley Management System at Meadowhall developed by BVP Developments Ltd a joint venture.
Shopping Centre in Sheffield achieved consortium of British Land, ProLogis and This brownfield site was previously ISO 14001 in May 2001.
A Centre task force Solihull Metropolitan Borough Council.
occupied by a large paper and cardboard undertakes management reviews, maintains Tenants currently include Oracle, Vodafone, mill and was heavily contaminated.
The site records and monitors legal requirements.
British Gas, Virgin Active and Arup, employing is now being redeveloped to accommodate Meadowhall has also developed a a total of over 4,000 people.
From the outset industrial warehouse units with ancillary Community Strategy to develop its business the built and natural environments have office space.
philosophy that the Centre should be more been central to all development and The old mill was demolished with than just a place to shop: it should be a management decisions.
much of its structure being crushed on source of pride to the community and to A number of sustainable solutions have site and reused in the new development.
The Strategy been provided in both building design and Decontamination works were also facilitates fundraising for charities, transport infrastructure.
An example of this undertaken to treat pollution hot-spots sponsorship of good causes, and supports is the award winning Arup Campus building and to make the site fit for redevelopment.
various civic and local organisations whose which is one of the most environmentally As part of the planning agreement secured mission is to improve the communitys friendly office buildings in the UK.
As part with the local council a previously concealed quality of life for its residents.
of the Park development over 3,500m of culvert is to be opened up as an attractive Examples of Meadowhalls ongoing new footpaths and cycle paths have been stream and a travel plan has been provided commitment to the local community provided and two new bus services are with contributions towards local bus services include spearheading a regional air action being funded in partnership with Chiltern and new bicycle infrastructure.
campaign, sponsoring a number of youth Railways and CENTRO.
initiatives, such as Help a Hallam Child A web site has been developed for and the Sheffield Star Superkids Awards, the occupiers of the Park and the local and a raft of charity fundraising activity.
community, and this can be viewed at The Centre is also at the forefront in the www.
The site development of two major regional initiatives: illustrated below provides a wealth of information including: details of local Meadowhall Centre of Excellence transport services: local events: special British Land is part financing and project deals at local shops and listings of jobs managing the Centre of Excellence, due to currently available on the Park.
A Park Travel open in early 2003, which will be a flagship Centre has also been established, enabling community training centre, situated adjacent employees to obtain assistance including: to Meadowhall.
The purpose built Centre will car sharing: local cycle routes and bus offer a wide range of training programmes times.
It will soon be possible to buy bus for businesses and individuals.
and train tickets from the Centre.
English Institute of Sport British Land is providing up to 2.5 million to support the development of the English Institute of Sport, which is currently being developed in Sheffield.
This will provide world-class training facilities for elite British athletes to help them succeed on an international level.
The Environment & Corporate Social Responsibility
