ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND ETHICAL POLICIES While the Groups activities have less The Company encourages its staff to contribute environmental impact than other sectors, there to their local communities.
In Hull, staff continue are opportunities for continuing improvement.
to support the Childrens University, aimed at The Board remains committed to tangible raising the aspirations of 10 and 11 year olds, progress in this area despite its key focus, and the Company actively encourages staff during the past turbulent year in the to become School Governors.
communications market, on satisfactory business performance.
Special support is being given to Endeavour High, a new secondary school designed to reverse the A revised Group environmental policy has trend of children seeking secondary education been endorsed by the Board, and a special outside the Hull city boundaries.
The Company team created to co-ordinate, monitor and is also a contributor to the digital cities initiative report to the Board on achievement of aiming to create universal electronic access to environmental targets.
Detailed attention local authority and other public sector information has been paid to control of packaging waste.
As a national member of Business Other initiatives include the introduction in the Community, the Company supports local of free air cooling systems in the Groups initiatives like Common Purpose.
Creation of a exchanges to reduce energy consumption, new multi-sport super stadium in Hull has been and the modication of the Groups vehicle helped by sponsorship from the Company.
The policy to encourage use of more fuel efficient new landmark facility will be known as the and less polluting vehicles.
Previous initiatives Kingston Communications Stadium.
continue on tree root protection during network construction and on re-cycling the Groups As a provider of telecommunications connectivity, directory publications for which the Nordic the Company is conscious of its responsibility Environmental Swan mark has been awarded.
to ensure, where it can exercise control, that content and service providers observe acceptable Health and Safety continues to be a priority.
It requires compliance with the The special team will also provide a source Independent Television Commission programme of expert advice for the Groups operating code and the rules of the Independent Committee businesses.
In addition to monitoring incidents, for the Supervision of Telecommunications it will target specic areas such as stress Information Services.
All employees are required management and safe driving requirements.
to act with integrity and the high ethical standards Employee perceptions of the Groups necessary to maintain the Companys reputation.
commitment to health and safety were checked as part of a recent employee satisfaction survey.
The results are being communicated to employees together with action plans where improvements are thought desirable.
Kingston Communications HULL PLC Report and accounts 2001 2002 17
