Corporate Social Responsibility Compass Group has a passion for quality.
We are proud of our people, brands and companies and as we are proud of what we do, so we expect to be judged by our actions.
We want each of our businesses to deliver levels of performance that cannot be matched by any of our competitors to set the standards for others to follow.
These ambitions run throughout our business, and apply Focus on employee satisfaction: Regular employee equally to human resource, social and environmental opinion surveys are conducted alongside other metrics considerations, which are recognised throughout our strategy.
such as days lost due to sickness to measure and improve employee satisfaction levels, leading to a spiral More detail is on our website, and is continually updated, so of continuous improvement.
As a responsible employer, this is just a flavour of what we are working to improve upon.
the Group looks to offer flexible working hours, childcare, job sharing and has parental leave policies in place.
As a global organisation Compass Group has an obligation Place a priority on employee relations: The Group has to look beyond local and international standards to protect established relationships and recognition agreements the long-term interests of all of our stakeholders.
Compass with many trade unions.
Compass Group was one of the Group therefore aims to set, promote and maintain first major UK-based employers to introduce a European high standards worldwide, which will ensure that we: Works Council, founded in 1996, which brings employee recognise human resource, safety, health and representatives together with members of the Main environmental considerations as fundamental to our Board.
In recent years the CEC Compass Group business strategy: European Council, has played a key role in value and respect the individuality and diversity that communication and consultation on policies including every employee brings to the business: Equal Opportunities and Environment.
make a positive contribution to the communities in Share in success: Compass Group has put in place which we operate: programmes to engage our people at every level of the conduct business in an ethical manner, meeting organisation by recognising and rewarding them for national and international regulations as a minimum: and their efforts in achieving our goals.
Tailored to local encourage our suppliers and partners to develop needs through the human resource teams, these operational and community principles similar to our own.
initiatives include attractive privilege purchase programmes, stock purchase plans for all employees Compass Group demonstrates an ongoing commitment and share option plans for management including to achieving these goals: top-performing unit managers.
Embrace diversity: Recognising, valuing and responding Win through teamwork: Be a Star is the Groups to the positive value of difference, Compass Group recognition programme, first developed in North America, conducts formal diversity training in many countries.
which now operates in many countries to recognise A statement of Compass Group equal opportunities excellence at unit level.
policy is detailed on page 30.
In 2002 our North American Demonstrate a passion for quality: Compass Group team won the Employer of Choice Award in training and companies are passionate about the delivery of superior education for its newly introduced Power of Many food quality and service and recognise the importance diversity programme.
This focuses on supporting of measurement knowing that if you cant measure it, employees understanding of the role of diversity in the you cant manage it.
This concern extends beyond our workplace and is followed up with the use of 37 metrics own companies.
Our customers expect us to work with to assess its effectiveness post-training.
The North our suppliers to develop and adopt the same principles American division is also represented on the Multicultural as we do in respect of food safety, working conditions, Our UK team have a health and Foodservice Hospitality Alliance board and supports the trading practices, health and safety and environmental food safety training partnership Womens Foodservice Forum and the National Society protection.
with the Institution of Occupational of Minorities in Hospitality.
Safety and Health IOSH Europes Promote development and training: The Board actively In North America the Group has introduced a comprehensive leading body for health and safety professionals, and almost 50,000 encourages equality of employment, training and career Quality Assurance Standards and Solutions System.
IOSH training packs and over development.
We have a range of world-class training Supplier monitoring includes a third party audit to verify that 35,000 IOSH certificates have and development programmes in place, with personal manufacturing and distribution practices meet the required already been issued.
development plans being established for all of our people.
standards and that a reliable system is in place to prevent During the year a Good to Great training programme has food hazards.
been launched across the Group designed to inspire our people at every level in the organisation to think about all Compass Group complies as a minimum with all relevant our values in relation to the way in which they work.
This legal and industry standards to provide a safe and healthy is a major programme which will continue to be reviewed workplace.
Performance is regularly measured through and improved as it is implemented to reach all of our appropriate audits.
One area of specific focus is the provision of wholesome and safe food.
Training and regular review of food handling and food safety are key metrics across the Group.
18 Compass Group PLC Compass Group is establishing procedures throughout the supply chain, giving us more assurance over the credentials of the supply source.
Compass Group PLC 19 A commitment to improvement Human resource, social and environmental issues Corporate Social Responsibility continued Compass Group is the worlds largest foodservice and The Eurest team in Chile received the Silver award for vending business.
We operate in over 90 countries around its work with Social Aid for the Underprivileged Remote the world thousands of communities where we can have Northern Communities.
Joint Merit awards were made a high and positive impact as a good neighbour.
By its to Compass Group teams in South Africa for work with very nature, our work has a relatively low impact on the Sobantu Siyathuthuka Agricultural Project, and in the USA environment but we are not complacent as we have for a contribution to the East Lyne Public Schools Project always recognised our obligations in this area and recognise in Connecticut.
In Australia, one of the 2001 Silver award that we can always improve upon what we do.
winners, Eurest, received further recognition as the recipient of the Prime Ministers National Employer of Environment the Year Award for large businesses for its work with During the year the Group has ratified and implemented an indigenous communities and ongoing support for people environmental policy, details of which are on our website.
with disabilities in addition to two State Awards.
We have introduced initiatives to ensure that the way Fundraising for local charities by local people takes place we do business is as environmentally friendly as possible.
across the Group on every day of the year.
Just one example Stringent guidelines and policy requirements, often above is from New Zealand where 52 of our on-site teams those required by local regulations, have been set in supported the Heart Foundations National BBQ Day 2002 businesses across the Group including waste reduction event.
Customers were treated to a lunch to help raise and recycling, water and energy conservation e. g. money for heart disease and stroke with great feedback through the specification of environmentally friendly and from clients and customers.
efficient equipment from cookers to cars, the use of environmentally friendly cleaning products, wide-ranging The Board and senior management of Compass Group recycling and the efficient use of machinery and transport.
believe that we can make a real difference in the key areas of human resource, environmental, social, ethical and Often based on other organisations premises it can be community performance.
These are the areas where our difficult to benchmark and then monitor change.
However, can do attitude is perhaps most clearly seen.
Whilst we we are working to improve our performance and we know have the policies in place, we believe we achieve the we can help to make a difference.
The Group will put greatest impact and commitment by encouraging and information on its website as soon as it is able to make supporting our people to become fully involved at local level.
public its progress in these key areas.
Compass Group has begun a journey towards being a great The UK division has partnered with the leading environmental company to work for and with.
I congratulate my colleagues charity Environ to create a unique environmental awareness across the world who are committed to making a difference, programme for our unit management.
The programme working closely with our clients, customers, employees and contains eight modules which focus on practical actions the wider community.
that can be taken to save energy, reduce waste and prevent pollution.
In 2003 this programme will be introduced across all of our business in Europe.
Community Compass Group companies pride themselves on being good neighbours.
We actively encourage our teams to be Clive Grundy involved with their local communities using, whenever Group Human Resources Director possible, their skills and the locations where they work to provide support to community initiatives.
Such efforts are recognised through our Compass Group In the Community programme, first established in 1996, where successful teams are rewarded and donations made to their nominated charities on a national, regional, divisional and global level.
20 Compass Group PLC In the UK we have partnered with Environ one of Europes leading environmental charities to develop an environmental awareness programme for our Unit Managers and employees.
In a UK pilot project with Environ, ten test sites reduced their total waste output by an annual equivalent of over 22 tonnes.
We are currently evaluating the results from this test for wider implementation.
In 2002, the worldwide award and a total of 20,000 went to Select Service Partner SSP to donate to the Wythenshawe Education Action Zone WyEAZ.
Located just two miles from Manchester Airport this is the largest urban council estate in Europe, with academic achievement well below the national average.
Involving 40 members of staff in mentoring schemes and reading programmes, introducing work placements in SSP outlets for youngsters and raising over 1 million, the SSP team have made a great contribution to their local community where GCSE results have improved by 6%.
Compass Group PLC 21 A journey towards being a great company Great people, great service, great results
