Principles of the Group Environmental Policy The Group is committed to protecting and enhancing the global and local environment in all its operations in the United Kingdom and overseas.
The Groups environmental policy is based on the following Appropriate on-going training is provided to allow all general principles: employees to meet their environmental responsibilities effectively.
the Group in all its activities is concerned for the environmental well-being of the communities in which it invests.
Development the Group considers the impact of its activities on the The policy of improving environmental standards is achieved environment in all aspects of its business, prioritising the by: prevention of pollution and contamination and working to achieve the most sustainable practices.
implementing local environmental control policies and complying with relevant environmental regulations, such as the Group complies with current environmental legisEnvironmental Impact Assessments, Biodiversity Action Plans lation and regulations as a matter of course and seeks to and Travel Plans.
exceed these standards where practical.
a commitment to regenerating areas of previously the Group strives to achieve continuous improvement in developed land and brownfield sites in line with national its environmental performance through implementing the government policy.
latest environmental standards and practices.
reviewing all proposed development projects to assess the the Group actively promotes environmental awareness presence of any contamination and, where necessary, internally amongst its employees, and externally with its remediating consistent with best practice.
specifying and monitoring works to remediate contamwhen placing contracts, the Group seeks to ensure that inated property and to minimise the risk of pollution which contractors and other interested parties comply with the might pose a threat to the environment or to health.
the Group protects the health and safety of its employees Building Design and Construction and visitors.
In building design and construction the following measures are applied: The Implementation of the Policy an assessment of projects using BREEAM Building The Group Board takes full responsibility for ensuring that Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Methodthis policy is effectively implemented.
ology, where appropriate, with a minimum requirement of a The Group Board regularly reviews the scope and content very good score.
of the policy and considers any amendments required as a eliminating the use of materials containing ozone result of evolving practice.
depleting substances in accordance with relevant legislation.
Operational implementation of the policy is embedded in where possible, specifying building materials with low the responsibility of senior line managers who submit regular environmental impacts throughout their life cycle, and from reports on the progress achieved.
sources certified as sustainable e. g. FSC-certified timber.
The environmental management system includes a set of promoting energy efficiency through innovative site and targets for each operating division which form the basis of building design.
an annual review of progress.
specifying engineering solutions and fittings that are In the event of adverse incidents the Group Chief Executive efficient in their use of natural resources.
is informed and a report submitted to the Chairman and the Board without delay.
considering the need to reduce dependence on the 38 SLOUGH ESTATES Annual Report 2002 private car through the provision of cycling and walking Slough Heat & Power Ltd SHP facilities and integrated transport links.
This company, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, minimising construction waste through careful design and adopts Best Available Techniques Not Entailing Excessive incorporating facilities for occupiers to segregate and sort Cost BATNEEC to ensure, as a minimum, its compliance their own wastes.
with current and future regulations.
SHP observes the enhancing landscaping and external aspects in harmony following basic principles: with existing surroundings, and where appropriate, minimising and controlling all releases to air, water and considering sustainable urban drainage systems.
land to comply, as a minimum requirement, with all relevant reclaiming waste building materials for re-use where legislation.
practical and disposing of other waste in compliance with encouraging the most efficient use of energy by providing the Duty of Care.
advice to customers on energy efficiency and by optimising implementing effective pollution prevention strategies on the power station energy efficiency by generating both site to ensure that developments do not cause air, water or steam and electricity in a combined heat and power plant.
adopting best health and safety at work practices using reclaimed and processed waste fuel to reduce including measures to protect workers, visitors and the public reliance on fossil fuels.
from exposure to unacceptable risks and hazards.
continuing to develop and modernise the power station limiting the effects of noise, dust and hazards through the to reduce the overall environmental impact whilst implementation of the Groups Responsible Contractors maintaining cost effective operations.
Initiative so as not to cause a nuisance.
integrating environmental management into normal operational procedures at all levels to ensure that all Leasing and Estate Management environmental objectives and statutory requirements are The policy of improving environmental standards is achieved continuously monitored and achieved.
by: continually assessing the environmental impact of the Company Administration uses and processes of current and prospective occupiers.
For its own part, the company in its internal operations will: inspecting all land and buildings owned within the monitor and measure consumption of energy and water portfolio at least annually to ascertain whether environmental damage has occurred or is at risk of occurring and production of waste to enable environmental impacts to and maintaining a comprehensive register of the findings.
specifying and monitoring works to remediate use, as far as practicable, materials that are obtained from contaminated property and to remove pollution which sustainable sources or are from recycled material.
might pose a threat to the environment or to health.
return used materials for recycling.
ensuring that occupiers commit through the lease to maintain a safe and healthy working environment for the observe environmental regulations and maintain good well-being of employees and visitors to its premises.
provide incentives to employees for selecting more fuel helping and encouraging all occupiers to manage their own environmental performance by distributing relevant efficient vehicles and encourage car sharing as part of a contacts and information.
