Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility CSR is a process performance and initiatives with interested whereby companies integrate social and environmental stakeholders.
The Groups approach is based upon the concerns in their business operations and in their following principles: interaction with their stakeholders on a voluntary 1 Good corporate citizenship recognises that 1 basis.
CSR should embrace the three pillars of companies should minimise harmful impacts on the sustainability, namely economic prosperity, environmental environment and improve quality of life amongst quality and social equity.
communities in which they operate: Although this is the first time that a CSR review has 2 A companys success is not solely measured by its been included in our Annual Report, Slough Estates financial performance but also by its social and believes that its responsibilities to local communities environmental performance: and wider society are fundamental to the way in 3 Corporate reputation is enhanced through adherence which it has always conducted its business.
The Group to high standards of performance, good overall manageis keen to continually improve its approach to CSR ment, as well as openness and transparency: and, as part of this, is committed to gradually increasing 4 The concept of CSR needs to be embedded in the and improving its communication of CSR related culture of a business and secured through Board level commitment and vision: 5 A dynamic and motivating working environment is one in which employees and the people with whom they interact, can flourish.
Slough Estates is an international company with operations in Europe and North America.
The company views compliance with local economic, social and environmental regulations as a minimum standard, and seeks where appropriate to exceed legislation by establishing its own standards in particular areas, e. g. Health and Safety.
A cross-functional CSR Committee, chaired by the Chairman has been established to monitor and manage the companys evolving approach in this area.
In this first report, the company outlines its approach to a number of areas relevant to the CSR agenda.
These include: Human Resources Health and Safety H&S Community investment Business relationships Corporate Governance Environment 32 SLOUGH ESTATES Annual Report 2002 share save scheme, which has an 85 per cent participation rate.
The company recognises that a healthy and productive workforce is critical to its business success and, therefore, provides a range of medical benefits to staff.
These include a private health scheme for Slough Head Office staff and SHP managers, which extends to family members.
Slough Estates is also a member of Human Resources Corporate Health, a registered charity originally set up In the UK alone, the Group is made up of a total of in 1947 as the Slough Industrial Health Service.
This 509 employees, 37 per cent of whom are employed at entitles employees to access casualty and diagnostic Slough Estates Head Office and the remainder of x-ray facilities, physiotherapy and free on-line advice whom are employed in a number of subsidiary from occupational health specialists.
There are companies with specific functions.
Examples of these procedures to allow early retirement for employees include Slough Heat & Power SHP, Fibre Fuel Ltd and suffering ill health and all retired staff are encouraged Slough Retail Management Ltd. to maintain contact with the company through social Slough Estates is fully committed to the well being of engagements.
It undertakes to train and motivate the The companys concern for the health of its staff is workforce: to help employees build on skill levels, matched by a variety of initiatives to provide facilities extend their education and qualifications.
The average and opportunities for sport and recreation.
Examples number of years in service for Slough Estates Head of these include: Office employees ranges from 8 years for a fully equipped fitness room within Group headadministrative staff to 14 years for staff in managerial quarters available to all staff in the building.
During 2002, total staff turnover in the UK financial support for the company cricket and footwas 15 per cent, and for Slough Estates Head Office ball teams.
All employment policies are regularly reviewed and Health and Safety H&S these encompass the following areas: Health and Safety is a critical issue for the company equal opportunities, and is subject to robust management controls.
The part-time working arrangements and flexible hours, Group Board sets the policy while implementation is health and safety, and the responsibility of a cross-departmental committee training and development.
that is active throughout UK, Europe and North America.
Our Overseas Managing Directors report directly to At 31 December 2002, 27 per cent of Slough Estates the Chief Executive, who chairs the H & S Committee.
Head Office staff were female.
The average age of all There is a rolling programme to ensure that all Slough Estates Head Office employees is 43 years Committee members are fully trained to IOSH compared with a real estate sector average of Managing Safely levels, a recognised industry approximately 37.
We aim to provide a fair and standard.
All senior managers visiting construction competitive system of remuneration for all our staff.
In sites are required to complete an H & S audit.
Slough addition, a well administered and funded final salary Estates also requires all contractors to demonstrate related pension scheme is available to all employees at Slough Estates Head Office and monthly paid staff at 1 Definition provided in the EC Green Paper on CSR, 2001.
SHP, all of whom are also eligible to join a company 33 Corporate Social Responsibility their own commitment to H & S by ensuring that their We work closely with organisations fostering business workforce is appropriately trained and qualified.
This is support, charity, education, the arts, recreation and reviewed on a regular basis.
welfare - both nationally and locally.
We are members of Business in the Community, Thames Valley All H & S incidents are reported and recorded, and Economic Partnership, Slough Business Community appropriate follow-up action taken.
Serious incidents Partnership, Blackwater Valley Enterprise and London are all independently investigated by the Groups H & S First, amongst others.
During the course of 2002, no serious incidents occurred across any of our activities.
In In 2002, the company Charities Committee received addition to staff training exercises, this year the Group some 250 appeals resulting in 150 awards, both large organised a series of seminars for construction suband small.
The charity budget was 380,000 of which contractors to affirm our H & S standards.
Every effort 70,000 was in-kind support.
Of this, 60 per cent went is made to create a positive H & S culture across the to general charity support and a further 15 per cent to Group.
Employees are asked for their suggestions on education.
Among the leading recipients were the initiatives which could contribute to safety, and during Princes Trust, Buckinghamshire Foundation, Outward the year a financial incentive scheme was introduced Bound Trust, the Civic Trust, Slough Activate and Shelter.
to reward the best suggestions.
We were lead sponsors of the Buckinghamshire Golden Jubilee Award Scheme.
Community The theme during this year has been our concentration The companys involvement in the community is integral on the local challenges and problems facing Sloughs to its core business and, therefore, tends to be focused young people.
As a Patron of the Outward Bound Trust, on those locations where we have a significant presence.
we provided funds to send over 40 local young people From its foundation in 1920, Slough Estates has believed on an Outward Bound adventure course at Aberdovey, in the importance of being actively engaged in the North Wales.
At Beechwood School, which was classified communities in which it operates.
The relationship with as a failing school, we provided professional building these communities is important to the business and expertise and financial support to help refurbish involves regular consultation with government and dilapidated buildings, giving the children and staff new business organisations that serve the community.
Our pride in their surroundings.
Our support, together with help to local bodies is both financial and in kind.
Members of our staff are actively encouraged to become involved and support community initiatives.
34 SLOUGH ESTATES Annual Report 2002 that provided by other local businesses, helped Business relationships persuade the local Education Authority to keep the Slough Estates recognises that the supply of flexible, school open.
Having been ranked amongst the 4 per efficient and well-located business space has to be cent of poorest performing schools in the country, backed up with the highest standards of after sales Beechwood School went on to improve across a range care.
A dedicated in-house property management of different parameters, most particularly community team seeks to develop strong relationships with customers, many of whom have been occupying involvement, for which it was awarded top marks.
buildings in the Slough portfolio for a long time.
We regularly support Herschel Grammar School both Regular surveys monitor occupier satisfaction and the with financial donations and support in kind.
Our inresults are used to adapt our approach, as part of a house team is providing help and expertise in the process of continuous improvement.
Any complaints establishment of the Herschel Grammar School are dealt with as a priority and involve senior Community Sports Centre.
The cost of this project is management.
The loyalty engendered amongst 2,400,000, most of the money being provided by customers is illustrated by 60 per cent of occupiers Sports England.
The companys support for this project who continue when lease breaks lease expiries give is currently estimated to be in the region of 75,000. them an opportunity to move.
This is encouraging In another young persons project in conjunction with evidence of the effectiveness of our long-standing Slough Activate, we helped fund a scheme to put 26 policy of working in partnership with our customers.
Slough teenagers, who were at risk of being excluded However, we recognise that customers are increasingly from their schools, into a working environment for a more discerning and willing to exercise their choice.
year during which they gained not only experience of We are therefore committed to maximising customer the work place, but also an academic qualification.
Most of these young people are now either in full time Our suppliers are important to us and our relationship employment or have moved on to further education.
with them is essential to the success of the company.
We want our business dealings with them to be In addition to the range of voluntary sponsorship and mutually beneficial and based on trust and a shared charitable activities outlined above, Slough Estates also commitment to high standards.
Unlike many of its makes significant contributions to community facilities peers, Slough Estates now operates a policy in which and infrastructure through investment linked to our no monies are held back from suppliers and development activities.
This results both from planning contractors upon completion of the works, in case of requirements through Section 106 agreements as well future rectification of defects.
As a result, suppliers as the companys proactive decision to go beyond these undertake to continually improve their processes.
company ensures that all work is properly executed and paid for promptly, within 14 days, and in practice this can be sooner.
Wherever possible, and subject to competitive and high quality services being provided, we seek to procure services from our occupiers.
Corporate governance The Group adopts a positive stance towards good corporate governance and the adopted guidelines are set out on pages 36 and 37.
These guidelines clearly follow the Consolidated Code of Practice and where there are differences these are justified.
