13 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Safety, Health and the Environment SHE Safety, Health and the Environment SHE CRODA INTERNATIONAL SAFETY, HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT POLICY Croda International Plc will operate its business in a manner which actively seeks to prevent or minimise the possibility of its operations causing harm to people, plants or animals.
We will strive to provide the material and resources to educate and involve every individual in the Company in achieving this objective.
It is my belief that aspiring to excellence in the management of Safety, Health and the Environment is vital to ensuring the long term future and profitability of the Company.
We believe that all accidents, incidents and work-related ill 5.
We will continue to search out new ways of conserving all health are preventable and we will manage our business the natural resources used in our processes.
with this aim including the provision of adequate resources for the prevention and control of major accidents.
We will continue to innovate in order to improve our products and processes so that their effect on safety, 2.
Because we are human, mistakes will be made: but because health and the environment is reduced.
we are committed, intelligent human beings we will investigate to identify the basic causes and take action to 7.
We will continue to improve communication and the prevent these mistakes being repeated.
exchange of views with employees, employee representatives, customers, contractors, suppliers, 3.
As an absolute minimum we will comply with all national neighbours and any other individual or organisation regulations but in addition will set our own demanding affected by our business.
internal corporate standards on matters relating to safety, health and the environment and endeavour to comply with them throughout our international operations.
Divisional management teams within the Company will be measured for their contribution to the continuous Mike Humphrey improvement of safety, health and environmental Group Chief Executive performance in their area of responsibility.
Director responsible for SHE 14 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Safety, Health and the Environment SHE Safety, Health and the Environment SHE The Group controls its business by the delegation of much of Since the publication of the original targets several structural its management responsibility, including SHE matters, to its changes have taken place within the Group with the opening divisional managing directors and general managers.
of one site, the sale of some sites, the closure of some sites, the assimilation of one site into another and the withdrawal The overall strategy and review of SHE performance within from a significant market area.
the Group is controlled by the SHE Steering Committee and is assisted in this by the Group SHE department in setting Where necessary the original objectives and targets have standards, providing guidance, brokering best practice and been re-based on current operations manufacturing at the auditing the sites.
A Group Environmental Management System GEMS was In the example of one site being assimilated into another the implemented in 1995 to provide sites with a framework upon statistics of both sites combined have been retained.
which their individual environmental management systems could be developed.
UK sites were audited against their ISO 14001 compliance with GEMS in 1996 with follow-up audits Objective: For all our manufacturing sites worldwide conducted in 1998 1999.
The audit process was repeated at to attain external validation of their environmental all Group worldwide manufacturing sites in 2001 2. management systems.
Similarly a Health and Safety audit based upon Health and Target: All manufacturing sites to be accredited to Safety Executive guidelines has been performed by Group ISO 14001 by the end of 2003.
SHE on all UK manufacturing sites in 1998 and 2000.
Overseas sites are also regularly reviewed.
A new round of Heath and Safety reviews for all our sites is planned for 2003.
All manufacturing sites have been required to document a The results of these audits are used to focus annual Group plan of action that will lead them to achieving ISO 14001 SHE objectives.
accreditation by the end of 2003.
The audit process, used by the Group SHE department to Already 50% of the manufacturing sites have achieved audit the manufacturing sites, has been externally validated by accreditation including Croda Brazil which achieved environmental consultants URS in 2001 as being in accordance accreditation in 2002. with ISO auditing standards.
The remainder of manufacturing sites are expected to meet A more detailed report on environmental matters is available the target in 2003 with the exception of Crodamazon, a new on the Groups website www.
Printed copies can manufacturing site in 2002, which has been given an extension also be obtained by writing to the Company Secretary at the until 2006. registered office.
INDICATORS OF SHE PERFORMANCE The Group SHE department has issued a number of Group SHE objectives over the last five years against which the manufacturing sites have been required to produce targets and at regular intervals to report progress.
In 2001 the Group published several safety, health and environmental targets.
Progress against these targets is given in the following paragraphs.
15 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Safety, Health and the Environment SHE ENERGY CONSUMPTION Objective: To implement energy conservation policies at all UK manufacturing sites in line with the chemical sector agreements with DEFRA.
Target: Energy consumption per tonne to be reduced by 18% by 2010.
For many years now our manufacturing sites have been encouraged to improve their energy efficiency, not only to achieve a reduction in their impact on the environment, but as part of good manufacturing management.
For some this process of improvement has resulted in very little scope for improvement at the present time while for others there remain opportunities for further efficiencies.
Many of the UK manufacturing sites qualify as members of the chemical sector agreement with DEFRA in order to achieve a rebate on the Climate Change Levy introduced by the Government in April 2001.
The chemical sector has set a phased target of an 18% improvement by 2010 in energy use per tonne manufactured from a baseline performance in 1998.
Each qualifying site within the chemicals sector has been required to set its own energy efficiency targets which have then been agreed with DEFRA.
It is anticipated that a selection of sites will be audited by DEFRA in order to validate the energy efficiency returns in addition to internal audits of energy efficiency.
All Group UK sites which completed the year with their industry sector agreements met their agreed targets with DEFRA without the need to purchase energy credits by way of emissions trading.
The opportunity has also been taken to have the excess improvement externally validated so that these emissions may be traded at some time in the future.
All sites that do not qualify for entry into the chemical sector agreement have been required to set targets as if they were in the agreement.
16 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Safety, Health and the Environment SHE Safety, Health and the Environment SHE Calculation of the energy efficiency of each site has become WASTE RECYCLING AND RECOVERY increasingly complicated as DEFRA have developed formulae Our sites have recently started to identify the total amount to take account of changes in product manufacturing profiles of waste that is disposed off-site and how much material is and the degree of capacity utilisation of the plant.
currently recovered and recycled, for example packaging materials, raw materials and some by-products from primary In addition the method of calculation of the energy used has production streams.
changed and is now different to the energy calculations used by the Group since 1991 in their Responsible Care reports to Objective: In 2000 we recycled or recovered 60% of the Chemical Industries Association.
the total amount of waste generated by the Group in the UK.
We aim to increase this amount substantially to In order to maintain clarity, Croda has decided to continue to reduce the cost of waste disposal and optimise our use report its energy efficiency simply as energy used per tonne of of raw materials.
This does not take into account changes in the energy requirements of the products Target: To recycle or recover 68% of our total amount which may change significantly with time and does not take of waste generated by the end of 2003. into account the benefits of high growth years or the negative effects of low growth years.
As a result the reported figures are expected to produce more variation from year to year In 2002 our tonnage of recycled or recovered waste increased but averaged over several years are still expected to show the by 3.6% while the total amount of waste reduced by 1.5%.
Our percentage of recycled or recovered waste increased from 72% in 2001 to 76% in 2002.
Performance on energy efficiency was adversely affected by the planned withdrawal from the gelatin market since this is a WASTE DISPOSAL highly energy intensive manufacturing sector.
During the Objective: To identify alternative waste disposal routes planned run down in manufacturing, the Group experienced a for the wastes presently sent to landfill.
In 2000 we significant reduction in output without a comparable reduction landfilled 26% of all wastes generated by our in energy use.
Despite this our energy used per tonne of operations in the UK.
manufactured product decreased by 1.8% in 2002 compared with 2001.
Target: To reduce the amount of waste sent to landfill by 5% per year until 2004.
The figures for waste are for waste generated by the manufacturing operations.
One off disposals of waste not directly associated with the manufacturing process, for example construction excavations or contaminated land remediation, are excluded.
In 2002 the tonnage of waste sent for landfill reduced by 9.1% while the total amount of waste reduced by 1.5%.
The percentage of waste sent to landfill reduced from 21% in 2001 to 19% in 2002.
17 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Safety, Health and the Environment SHE AIR EMISSIONS SHE INITIATIVES 2002 Accidents and Enforcement Action Objective: To continue with our programme to reduce The accident rate in the Group continued to decline again in the release of VOCs to atmosphere.
Target: To reduce our release of VOCs to atmosphere The withdrawal from the manufacture of gelatin caused severe by a further 5% in 2002. problems for the control of the effluent treatment plant at one site.
As a result of odours emitted from the effluent plant Emissions of VOCs in the UK are reported annually to the an odour abatement notice was issued to the site in May Environment Agency and these figures are published on the 2002 by the Local Authority.
In July 2002 the site was Environment Agency website.
In 2002 we released 6% less prosecuted and fined 5,000 in the magistrates court for VOCs than in 2001. these emissions.
It is our intention to continue with the objective of a 5% Soil and Groundwater Investigations reduction in VOC releases in 2003.
The Group believes it has already identified its major liabilities with regard to historical contamination of the ground and WASTE WATER DISCHARGES groundwater.
We are more than three quarters of the way through a programme of detailed intrusive surveys at all of Objective: To reduce the impact the Group has on our remaining sites to ascertain whether any of those will controlled waters.
To date, although some minor contamination has been identified, detailed risk Target: To strive for 100% compliance against all assessments of the threat to human health and controlled licence conditions on every sample taken but to aim to waters by our environmental consultants have not resulted in be above 95% compliance by the end of 2001. any immediate action being required.
The Group has measured compliance with its effluent discharge consent to sewer and to controlled waters for many years.
The record shows a steady improvement from 49% in 1991 to 90% in 2001.
Full compliance figures are not yet available for the last six months of 2002 because of the extended delay in receiving the results of effluent tests from some water authorities.
For the first six months of 2002 the Group achieved a compliance rate of 97%.
