corporate social responsibility report Dimension Data recognises its responsibility toward its employees, society and the environment, and is committed to conducting its business and reporting according to the highest ethical standards.
It acknowledges that its efforts in this regard add to its sustainability as a Group, as well as to the sustainability of the environment and the communities within which it operates.
Communities training for Dimension Data employees Jeans for Genes Day, Annual Button Day, Dimension Data is committed to the from disadvantaged backgrounds.
SIDS Red Nose Day, Bandaged Bear Day principle of corporate citizenship.
As a and Breast Cancer pink ribbon day.
Group, Dimension Data supports In addition, Dimension Data has coeducational initiatives, with a particular sponsored with MTN, the US$285,000 Following the decision to focus community focus on information and communication construction of the Ndzululwazi Senior action investing in education for technology ICT education, and Group Secondary School at Mt.
Frere in the disadvantaged groups, the Group is companies participate in a broad range of Eastern Cape, provided financial currently examining similar initiatives in activities in the communities in which they assistance to allow children to attend the countries where no formal community operate.
Applewood preparatory school and programmes exist, with the aim of partially sponsored the construction of a identifying suitable causes and recipients In South Africa, education remains the computing centre at Rhodes University.
to extend and complement the Groups primary focus of community and initiatives.
Dimension Data has Dimension Data has also focused on committed nearly US$4 million in funding development in sport in South Africa by Globally, the subsidiaries are encouraged over the next five years to provide internet giving sponsorships in various areas.
to participate as good corporate citizens access for school children through within their local communities.
initiatives such as SchoolNet and Gauteng In the United States of America, Online, for our Saturday School outreach Dimension Data has been involved in the Employees programmes and providing IT equipment, provision of computers and training, The Board remains committed to course development and lecturers to run including student mentoring and tutoring attracting, retaining, motivating and the business information systems programmes, to enable adult and minor developing the highest calibre of curriculum and computing facilities for the members of the community to become IT employees, whom it considers to be its key CIDA University.
This initiative will result in literate, and prepare adults to return to or assets.
During the year the Group has over 1,000 information technology literate, enter the workforce.
refined its strategies, improved its black bachelor of business administration communications with employees and graduates per annum by 2005.
CIDA City Dimension Data Australia has donated consolidated its people management Campus was selected as the Age of about US$65,000 this year.
It sponsored processes globally with the objective of Innovation 2002 Grand Prix winner for the the 4K Charity Ride, contributed to the maximising relationships with employees.
Most Innovative Organisation in South Starlight Foundation, and its auction of Training, management development and Africa, for its more than 280 innovations office furniture, fixtures and fittings raised succession planning have been given a and breakthroughs in the field of providing further funds for that charity.
It has implemented the DD high quality mass-scale higher education Dimension Data Australia supports the Way, a global performance-based at very low cost.
This amount also international charity, Community Aid transformation programme which aligns includes funding for learnerships to Abroad, as well as the national charity, the Group behind a common vision.
A key provide specific information technology Putting IT Back.
element of the programme is to utilise best and information technology management practice people management processes skills for adult black learners in or entering In Australia, the UK and Continental for a global organisation.
Core to this is the information technology industry: and Europe, the Group and its staff also the successful communication with and to provide management development support events such as Comic Relief, the incentivisation of its employees.
40 DIMENSION DATA Although the regions have previously been the migration towards a more Training represented by regional Human standardised percentage split in We rely on our highly trained staff to Resources HR, Dimension Data has performance-related bonus payments.
enable us to deliver a superior standard of now established a Global HR function with Employees basic remuneration is set service and have an ongoing commitment the appointment of a Group HR Director, based on comparative wages for the to provide high quality training for staff.
Marilyn Chaplin, and global HR team to industry and region.
Qualitative provide strategic direction, best practice performance indicators are considered in The Group is defining competencies and and consistency across all HR initiatives addition to quantitative measures when skills required to deliver the desired within the regions.
setting goals and in the subsequent twice solutions and services to clients.
All goals are intended to work encompasses gaining a thorough With Dimension Data employing over be strategically aligned and relate to the understanding of what skills we have in 9,000 employees, the focus has been on achievement of the companys overall the business, and developing our people ensuring that all people processes and objectives.
Most employees can earn through training programmes to address systems are consistent and aligned across bonuses based on performance, and any skill gaps in the business, together the globe.
To support the people many are also offered target-based with development programmes to meet processes, Dimension Data has invested options in the Share Option Scheme.
in a global, customised, web-based Currently 5,500 employees hold options in employee self-service system, internally the scheme.
In the financial year under review, over known as the People Dimension System.
US$4.5 million was spent throughout the Group companies aim to maintain health Group on training Dimension Data The communication infrastructure is being and safety policies in accordance with employees.
The development of many consolidated on a global basis, with all best practice and adhere to the regulatory staff across all global regions included employees receiving consistent and requirements of the regions in which they training for the sale and delivery of new focused communications.
Local labour standards are proprietary Dimension Data services on-line information such as policies and adhered to, with most employees working offerings.
In addition, free literacy, basic procedures and other employee-related 40 hour weeks unless contractually computer skills and office administration information.
This is enhanced by the agreed otherwise because of the nature training are offered to unskilled employees regular production of @Didata, an of their employment.
The Executive Chairman and regional CEOs regularly It is Group policy to adhere to local labour Environment communicate with employees on matters standards and globally accepted human Dimension Data recognises that its of relevance to them, and staff and rights practices.
It is Group policy not to business activities have both direct and branch meetings are held regularly.
Freedom of indirect environmental impacts.
The association is also Group policy on a Groups environmental policy is as follows: The Groups approach to employees global basis, with works councils existing remuneration has been revised, with the in some countries where appropriate to Being office-based by nature, Dimension incorporation of many elements of current local law and practice.
Data has very low primary and direct best practice.
A globally aligned Reward impacts on the environment.
The Group is and Performance Policy has been mindful of the necessity to be efficient in developed and implemented, focused on its consumption of energy and strives to ANNUAL REPORT 2002 41 exceed wherever possible the statutory political grouping, other than in the level and create capacity in our broader requirements which apply to the Group in provision of its normal products and industry through facilitating skills the countries of operation.
The recycling services, under its usual terms and development from primary to tertiary level, of waste materials and the reduction of conditions of sale.
through procurement arrangements, non-renewable resources, as well as the facilitating access to capital, and joint environmentally friendly disposal of any South African Employment Equity ventures and investments.
DDSA is hazardous resources employed by the Report committed to corporate social investment, Group, is encouraged.
When developing Dimension Data South Africa Pty Ltd primarily in the educational sector and with systems, the environmental concerns and DDSA believes that like many other a particular focus on information and statutory obligations of customers are South African companies it has a moral communication technology ICT education.
reflected in the solutions we provide.
imperative to address the inequalities of the past through a concerted and ongoing To date, DDSA has minority investments Dimension Datas Group companies public-private sector partnership.
in black-owned companies Choice 49% recycle paper, boxes, toner cartridges, save and Plessey 49%.
In each case electricity, and dispose of old computer DDSA also believes that it has an Dimension Data has provided not only equipment to charities or in an ecologically economic imperative to transform its shareholders funds, but also management sound fashion.
Dimension Data Australia organisation to remain relevant to the and operational assistance, skills transfer annually donates the provision of IT changing profile of South African public and access to clients.
DDSA also has services and support to Clean Up Australia and private sector business leadership.
It 37% investment in black-owned SME M-IT Day, the largest community participation supports the recommendation that black and has provided US$38,000 in event in the country.
economic empowerment involves shareholder loans to enable the addressing shareholding by previously establishment and growth of this During 2001 Dimension Data commenced disadvantaged individuals, management business.
DDSA also subcontracts all of a review of its environmental policies, with decision making by previously its break-fix work to M-IT.
DDSA supports a view towards creating a global Group disadvantaged individuals, affirmative SME development through affirmative standard and monitoring and reporting on procurement procedures, labour equity, procurement and subcontracting to 15 environmentally orientated initiatives.
We skills development, small and medium black-owned SMEs and an owner-driver had expected that such review would have enterprise SME development, corporate programme.
The company has met its been completed by the end of this social investment, gender equity and transformation targets as submitted to the reporting period: however, it is still equity for disabled persons.
Department of Labour every year since underway.
It has provided learnerships to measuring and improving its DDSA is addressing the shareholding and involving 50 black interns since 2001 and environmental performance and will take operational control in the company in a management development programmes further action in 2003. manner that is consistent with the South involving 20 black managers or potential African governments vision and the needs managers.
It has also contributed to Ethical of our shareholders to invest in a corporate social investment initiatives The Dimension Data Group embraces the company that provides sustainable totalling US$2.4 million in primary, highest standards in its business activities.
superior returns, provided this achieves a secondary and tertiary technology The Group operates in accordance with better strategic positioning for DDSA, education since 2000. an ethical code, which is distributed to enabling it to deliver improved returns to employees via the corporate internet.
Substantial progress has been made in During the period under review the ethical achieving specific targets which have policy has been enhanced and reviewed.
DDSA is addressing the social and been set by DDSA for Black Economic economic inequalities that persist in our Empowerment.
It does not company, industry and country by investing make contributions to political parties or our financial and skills-resources to allow its assets and services to be used in transform our staff complement to reflect any way which favours any particular the demographics of South Africa at every 42 DIMENSION DATA
