We have made good progress towards Further details of our objectives and Operating review our aim of fully integrating environmental targets and how these are managed are Environment considerations into all areas of our set out at www.
Our focus remains on materials use, waste management and energy Benchmarking performance and fuel consumption.
Other issues are The Group has participated in the addressed as their impact is identied.
Business in the Environment BiE Index of Corporate Environmental We recycled 153 tonnes more Engagement since it began six years distribution level waste paper than ago.
This is a respected benchmark of in 2000 01 FTSE 100 companies environmental management and performance.
1 51 tonnes of redundant customer mobile phones were collected and In this years more detailed survey processed for reuse or recycling, up the company maintained its position 400% on last year in the upper half of its economic group.
We sold 33 per cent more A rated BiE commented as follows: energy efficient appliances than in the previous year Environmental management scores were strong and consistent with last We reduced our eet car carbon year.
High scores were achieved in the dioxide emission levels to an average leadership, policy, objective, target 2 of 161gms litre, beating the setting, environmental stewardship Governments target of 165gms litre and employee communications areas.
Progress could be made by expanding New stores tted with modied air the companys internal environmental conditioning fans reduced their energy audit process.
use by up to 9 per cent Performance measurement results We achieved a 20 per cent reduction are consistent with last year with some in refrigerants used by air conditioning improvements made in the setting of systems at our out-of-town stores.
It is pleasing that, Table 1 Business in the Environment Index of Corporate and Environmental Engagement.
General retail sector: Dixons results 2001 Overall ranking 107 Average score 66% Economic group ranking 22 of 52 Sector ranking 5 of 7 FTSE 100 ranking 55 The total number of participating companies was 206 including 83 FTSE 100 companies.
The economic group containing general retail includes leisure, entertainment, hotel, media, transport and support related businesses and services.
Table 2 Package recycling per year in tonnes.
Sales of A rated energy efficient appliances were up 33 per cent.
2,286 tonnes of packaging including cardboard, were recycled in 2001 02.
In-store literature advised customers about the issues caused by new legislation on fridge recycling.
28 Dixons Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2001 02 with the exception of energy, some Energy saving performance improvement can be As the Government has highlighted, shown in all impact areas.
The choice of increasing the use of energy efficient biodiversity as a selected impact area is appliances is key to reducing carbon commendable and indicates the Groups dioxide emissions.
Currys has developed schemes Two illustrations of our programmes are to promote the replacement of set out below.
older appliances with new efficient models under the Energy efficiency Packaging recycling Commitments Programme EEC.
Recycling of distribution product An A rated energy efficient fridge can packaging, including cardboard, save 46 from the annual household paper and expanded polystyrene has electricity bill compared with the increased by 9.2 per cent to 2,286 average 10-year-old G rated model.
tonnes over the last financial year.
This reects continuing efforts across Currys ran three exclusive schemes to the distribution chain to recover and promote energy efficient products with segregate packaging to prevent it from TXU Energi and Powergen during the being consigned to landll.
These offered customers savings materials are reused for packaging.
of up to 150 off the retail price of A Investment in new equipment to bale rated appliances.
In total Currys sold plastic lm has increased the average more than 70,000 A rated appliances monthly amount of lm collected from in 2001 02, supported by national 3.5 tonnes in 2001 calendar year to advertising and in-store literature.
This will help the Group to achieve its target to increase distribution packaging recycling levels by a further 10 per cent by the end of April 2003.
Company vehicles are tested regularly to minimise their impact on the environment.
Customers are encouraged to recycle their used inkjet cartridges in-store.
29 Dixons Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2001 02
