We aim to provide our customers with parental and dependants leave policies Corporate citizenship unmatched choice and value, our staff support employees in achieving their with a supportive workplace and to particular work life balance.
conduct our business with minimal impact on the environment.
UK employees and their families have access to an independently managed Our people employee assistance programme which Our customers reect every background provides free, condential advice on and community.
So too should our financial, legal and personal matters.
Our uncompromising commitment to equal opportunities Integrity at work gives us access to the broadest range Integrity and trust are essential to our of skills and experiences.
business success and to the well-being of our employees.
Our Blowing the Our working practices encourage whistle policy encourages every employee initiative, promote teamwork and to share responsibility for maintaining build on the strengths and aptitudes the highest standards of honesty of each employee.
Our Respect throughout our business.
Employees are For Peopleprogramme fosters a guaranteed condentiality and support supportive working environment if they report or prevent malpractice.
free from harassment, bullying or discrimination.
To date more People management than 25,000 UK employees have We are committed to training and 1 participated in Respect For People developing all our employees.
training for UK employees is linked to NVQ accreditation.
Management In our 24 7 society exibility is as vital development programmes have been to our employees as to our customers.
created with Henley Management To attract and retain the best people, the College.
Personal development plans Group is receptive to exible working enable employees across the Group arrangements wherever practical.
Our to explore opportunities and broaden career break schemes, together with their skills and experience.
Share bonus and incentive schemes 2 encourage employees to contribute directly to the achievement of individual and collective success.
Our Disability Working Group monitors and manages progress in making our business more accessible to employees and customers.
To support our policy development in these areas we are working in partnership with the Disability Rights Commission and Commission for Racial Equality.
In Northern Ireland we have worked closely with the Fair Employment Commission to develop unique selection and training packages to attract employees from across the community.
Health and safety management 3 UK and Ireland employees during the year full time equivalent 24,576 Table 1 Reports made under the Reporting Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995 425 Of which: Injuries 60 designated major 424 Reportable disease 1 Dangerous occurrences 0 Reports per 1,000 employees 17 Table 2 1.
Our employees voted for the four charities they Reported violence or threat of violence to employees 16 requiring hospital treatment 4,186 wanted to support during the year.
Simon Turner, MD, PC World, presents a cheque to Rumney Days lost in consequence: junior school, who collected the most Ink for I. T. Retail Operations 1,359 cartridges, at PC World, Cardiff.
Currys, Coventry Mastercare 1,077 store manager, Richard Birk and the Canley re brigade support Switched on to Safety.
The Currys Days lost annually as a percentage of total employee days 0.044% campaign was launched in April 2002 to highlight One fatality occurred when a pedestrian walked between parked cars into the path of a reversing vehicle.
the dangers of electrical accidents in the home.
26 Dixons Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2001 02 Health and safety our factory audit programme to identify Improving quality of life Across Europe we operate more than any issues and make suppliers aware of By September 2001 the Group and 1,300 retail, service and distribution the need to improve.
We are incorporating its employees had raised 192,000 centres.
Our businesses employ Dixons Group standards into our terms for the NSPCC.
33,557 people and we serve more and conditions and intend to audit than 64 million customers each year.
In September 2001, we launched our Every aspect of our business must meet Health Matters campaign, supporting high standards of health and safety.
Dixons in the community the Breast Cancer Campaign, The Stroke The Dixons Foundation provides the Association, The Prostate Cancer Charity Chief Operating officer, David Hamid, funding for much of our community and the Multiple Sclerosis Society.
To is responsible for health and safety programme.
It made total grants of date our employees have raised more compliance across our UK operations.
996,041 in the year, supporting the than 209,000 for the campaign.
A Health and Safety Committee activities of more than 200 charities directs policies and compliance.
Employee involvement assessments have been carried out Employees are encouraged to throughout the UK and Ireland.
None Supporting our future generations support their local communities of our operations involve activities that We continue our partnerships with major through programmes such as Partners are considered to be hazardous.
programmes to improve educational in Leadership, which creates mentoring standards in areas of deprivation partnerships between business managers Where risks are identied, we seek and encourage the aspirations and and head teachers and by school governor to eliminate them or to reduce them entrepreneurial skills of young recruitment campaigns.
Other activities to an acceptable level.
These include the Dixons included remodelling a childrens employees exposed to the risk of injury City Technology College in Bradford playground for National Childrens through incorrect manual handling are and the South Bradford Educational Homes, gardening at hospices and provided with training and equipment Action Zone.
decorating a hostel for homeless people.
to reduce the chance of injury.
Likewise stores and other workplaces are designed We support Academic Chairs in The Groups Give As You Earn scheme, to avoid the risks of tripping or falling.
New Media at the London School run in association with the Charities Key performance indicators measure of Economics, in Entrepreneurship Aid Foundation, enables employees to accident reduction and site safety and Innovation at the University of contribute to charity via their payroll.
Edinburgh and in Business Ethics at the London Business School.
There were no prosecutions for health and safety offences during the year.
Our CREATE Tottenham training project 4 The requirements of four improvement recycles and refurbishes domestic notices, relating to ventilation and manual appliances.
The project provides paid handling, have been met.
All dangerous vocational training and a path to incidents are fully investigated and permanent employment.
established procedures followed to prevent recurrence.
Bringing IT to schools PC Worlds Ink for I. T. scheme supports Reporting and monitoring mechanisms the development of IT skills in schools are being introduced in our European by providing free equipment in return businesses.
The scheme has provided more than 100,000 of 5 Ethical sourcing computer equipment to schools.
We are playing a leading role in improving the standard of social and Preventing crime ethical compliance of our suppliers of We are involved in many initiatives to directly sourced products.
A social and prevent crime through our membership ethical accountability awareness check, of Crime Concern and support for the based on SA8000 criteria, is included in work of Crimestoppers.
6 7 209,000 for the Health Matters campaign 4.
Our runners in the 2002 London Marathon raised funds for the Groups four charities.
Learning about new technology at the Dixons CTC in Bradford.
Badges and keyrings were sold in all UK stores for the Health Matters campaign.
Jaline Storey and Amanda Dance, both from head ofce, Hemel Hempstead, paint fences at the Isabel Hospice, Welwyn Garden City on a team building challenge day.
27 Dixons Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2001 02
