FOODSERVICE GROUP Remuneration report Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 Listing Requirements Increase Transfer value decrease of increase in transfer Increase in in accrued Increase in Transfer Transfer value over accrued pension over accrued value of value of the year, net pension the year, net Accrued pension accrued accrued of directors over the of directors pension at over the pension at pension at contributions year net of contributions 31 Dec 02 year 31 Dec 01 31 Dec 02 note 1 inflation note 2 000pa 000pa 000 000 000 000pa 000 W B McGrath 16 3 102 100 5 3 17 S Rennie 99 13 957 856 107 12 91 S M Smith 26 2 190 163 30 2 10 note 1 - reflects the comparison of the transfer value of the accrued pensions at the start and the end of the year.
note 2 - reflects the transfer value of the increase in the accrued pension over the year only.
The increase in the transfer value of the directors William McGrath 21st March 2001: Stephen Rennie 1st pensions, after deduction of contributions paid by them, January 1999: Shaun Smith 20th March 2001. is shown in the table above.
The transfer values shown are The remuneration committee does not consider it to not payable to the individuals concerned.
During the year be in the best interests of shareholders for directors the Company paid premiums of 630 and 268 to contracts to provide explicitly for pre-determined provide life assurance cover on that part of William compensation in the event of termination and accordingly McGraths and Shaun Smiths earnings above the Inland none of the contracts contains any such provision.
Service contracts The remuneration committee has established and implemented a policy to align the normal notice period of By order of the board all the executive directors with the best practice provisions V Cocker set out in the Combined Code.
Accordingly, all of the Chairman of the remuneration committee executive directors service contracts have a notice period Solihull of one year.
Dates of contracts currently in place are: 21st March 2003 Corporate social responsibility The board recognises the importance of corporate social The board takes regular account of significant social, responsibility CSR and the Group aims to fulfil its environmental and ethical matters.
Short and long-term responsibilities to stakeholders including shareholders, risks associated with these matters have been assessed employees, customers, suppliers and the communities in and the Company is developing its policies and procedures which the Groups businesses operate.
The board has to ensure these are being addressed appropriately.
made a clear commitment to operate all its business Employment activities with high standards of business ethics and As the Groups operations are mainly carried out by its integrity, as outlined in the Groups Statement of Core operating subsidiaries, responsibility for employment Principles.
This was issued by the chief executive in matters resides primarily with individual businesses.
December 2001 and is available on our website.
The board However, the Group requires its operating subsidiaries to has overall responsibility for ensuring that these CSR policies are regularly reviewed and verified, and the chief comply with its equal opportunities policy which stipulates operating officer is responsible for implementation.
Aga that policies be followed throughout the Group to ensure Foodservice Group is a member of the FTSE4Good index.
that there is equal opportunity of employment, retention, 22 Annual Report & Accounts Corporate social responsibility promotion and training regardless of race, ethnic or example for specialist training needs or major projects.
national origin, gender, marital status, sexual orientation, In health and safety, the Group monitors reportable religion, trade union membership or disability and that and non-reportable accidents at all operating units and appropriate consideration is given to disabled applicants sets annual improvement targets.
In 2002 the Group in terms of employment.
exceeded its target of a 10% reduction in reportable and Employees are informed of developments across the non-reportable accidents.
All UK businesses are now Group by a variety of means.
These include a group members of the British Safety Council and two businesses newsletter, The Aga Times, which is updated online and received safety awards in 2002. is distributed regularly to employees.
Business unit The Groups environmental policy sets out the management hold briefing sessions for their local principles for enhancing environmental performance, workforces and employees are encouraged to access the minimising impact and of maximising efficiency.
This Groups websites and local intranet.
framework forms the basis of detailed policies that are The Groups Code of Conduct for employees outlines adopted by and are appropriate to the activities of the standards of integrity and honest conduct expected.
The Groups whistleblowing policy has recently been The Group monitors key environmental indicators and extended to enable employees to report in confidence to specific improvement targets are being developed to help an external party breaches of the Code of Conduct, fraud minimise the environmental impact of any aspect of the or any other criminal acts.
This is in addition to existing Groups operations.
The Groups environmental impact covers a range of The Group has an established UK Human Resources areas, such as energy use, water consumption, transport, Forum, attended by representatives of the businesses.
waste and recycling, our manufacturing processes and the Topics covered during the year include the use of appraisal performance of our products.
systems, recruitment and selection techniques, equal Where appropriate, the Group supports the adoption opportunities monitoring and other current HR issues.
and implementation of environmental management systems at our operating businesses.
This is reflected by Health, safety and environmental a number of locations working towards ISO 14001.
In The Group regards environmental and health and safety March 2003 the Rangemaster sites at Leamington Spa matters as increasingly important for all its stakeholders and Long Eaton have been formally recommended for the and is committed to the continuous improvement of its standard ISO 14001:1996. performance in these areas.
The Group aims to achieve high standards of health Examples of the environmental initiatives underway across and safety at work and environmental protection and the Group include: seeks to keep all concerned aware of best practice and statutory frameworks.
The chief operating officer is During 2002 a further three manufacturing sites responsible for the overall implementation of the Groups eliminated the use of chlorinated solvents for environmental and health and safety policies, and the degreasing and replaced them with low alkali or senior managers report to him on these matters.
aqueous water based cleaning agents.
Detailed environmental and health and safety policies have been adopted within each of the Groups operations, Victory & Williams Refrigeration use environmentally with business unit managers responsible for neutral refrigerants R134A and R404A.
Policies and practices are reviewed and minimal.
It is used only in servicing and only at the updated for changes in legislation and employees are specific request of customers.
It is intended to made aware of the policies and their responsibility to eliminate its use during 2003.
Victory has various ensure their efficient operation.
models approved by ASHRAE and is an Energy Star The health and safety and environmental committees Partner.
Williams has developed a secondary glycol meet regularly to review standards, set targets for refrigeration system and continues to provide safe improvement and to promote best practice.
disposal schemes in the UK and France.
The health and safety committee has developed a system of internal audits using health and safety specialists to benchmark each others operations.
External AFE Serviceline is developing energy monitoring consultants are utilised when specific needs arise, for schemes and is working with key customers in the 23 FOODSERVICE GROUP Corporate social responsibility supermarket sector to achieve a reduction in energy to monitor any areas of non-conformance.
The boards usage by informed use of technology, commissioning target is to seek confirmation of supplier compliance by and servicing.
Community involvement In our consumer operations all electric cookers are Each operating company and its employees is encouraged labelled as required under the Energy Efficiency to become involved with and to support local community Directive.
Our bestselling Rangemaster 110 model has projects, educational establishments, charities and other achieved an AA rating on both its 67 litre conventional causes.
This support may be via donations, fundraising or and fan assisted ovens.
Examples include payroll giving schemes, sponsored events, the donation of gifts In addition to managing the environmental impact of received to local charities and good causes, work our day-to-day activities, we also seek to minimise the risk experience and university placements.
The Group has of environmental pollution incidents.
Where such incidents sponsored Birchfield Harriers, a Birmingham based occur, prompt corrective action is taken, and where athletics club, which has strong local community links.
A appropriate the relevant regulatory authorities are notified.
variety of charities have held meetings and events at the During the year, there were no fines or prosecutions as a Groups retail outlets and liaison on community issues is result of environmental incidents.
Any external complaints are logged, responded to and data collated at Group level.
Supply chain ethical trading code The board recognises the importance of managing the Verification supply chain to ensure, so far as is practicable, that its Aga Foodservice Group has instituted a regular review of direct and indirect suppliers adopt the same core its CSR policies, and in March 2002 appointed CSR principles as the Aga Foodservice Group.
The Group has Consulting Ltd to assist the Company in evaluating its therefore introduced an ethical trading code which current policies and procedures and reinforce the Groups encompasses a set of global sourcing principles covering commitment to corporate social responsibility.
At present fair terms of employment, human rights, health and the board does not believe that an external CSR audit safety, equal opportunities and good environmental would be appropriate but where significant issues are practice.
Every operating company is required to review identified utilises external specialists.
compliance with the code throughout its supply chain and 24
