Environmental Review The Group places considerable importance The UKs target for 2002 is to recover 59% Environmental management on managing the impact of its operations on of packaging material and this target will Paper the environment.
Responsibility for managing increase over time, meaning that greater Paper manufacturing has potentially the environmental issues rests with each of the recycling of paper packaging will be needed.
largest environmental impact of all the divisions, working within the framework of The Group, therefore, has a vital role in Groups operations.
Environmental audits the Groups environmental policy, and each developing and expanding its collection and have been conducted at all the UK paper division has a senior executive responsible for recycling operations.
mill sites as part of the Pollution Prevention environmental management.
The Group Control PPC permit application process and Environment Committee meets regularly, Some of the actions being taken to support environmental management systems and under the Chairmanship of the Group Chief this are: measures of performance are in place at all Executive, to review progress and cothe UK and French mills.
recovery of post consumer packaging increased by 3.5% in 2001 02: significant developments in the paper The scope of environmental issues varies operations this year included: widely across the Groups operations.
The three additional mobile compaction businesses continued to make progress vehicles, bringing the total in operation ISO 14001 environmental management in establishing appropriate environmental to 16, will be brought on stream by system: four mills have gained management systems to assess and Severnside in 2002 03 to increase recycling accreditation and one more is expected monitor the impact of their operations and of plastic and paper packaging: to follow soon: to drive action to improve environmental performance.
significant environmental some 3000 small and medium sized Climate Change Levy CCL : with the factors such as waste management and businesses are now able to recycle paper introduction in the UK of CCL certain energy usage have been incorporated into and packaging through Severnsides mobile energy intensive businesses are able to claim the key performance indicators for those compaction vehicle collections: a reduction in the levy provided agreed operations for which they are most relevant.
targets are met for reductions in energy This highlights the importance of such a call centre has been opened to expand consumption.
It is believed that this will lead factors and ensures performance against the recycling service offered to businesses: to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, targets is regularly monitored.
principally CO. St Regis Paper is a key 2 Severnside is taking part in a trial recovery participant in the paper sector climate Collection and recycling of paper of glass to be used in aggregates.
change agreement with the Department of The Group plays an important environmental Environment, Food and Rural Affairs.
Under role through its paper and packaging Effective packaging design this agreement, the industry undertakes operations.
and waste minimisation to reduce its specic energy consumption The Groups packaging operations, both by 40% by 2010, when compared to the Severnside Recycling is the UKs largest plastic and bre based, help ensure Kyoto accountancy base year of 1990, collector and merchant of recovered paper.
compliance with the Essential Requirements and is still on course to meet this target: element of the EU packaging waste legislation.
St Regis Paper is the UKs largest producer These regulations require businesses to PPC: all UK mills have been granted of recycled paper and board.
minimise the amount of packaging materials permits to operate under this regime.
The Group helps businesses achieve Under PPC, waste reduction, energy and Kaysersberg is a significant collector and this through its packaging design advisory resource usage, soil and ground water recycler of recovered paper in France.
service which recommends optimal pack contamination, emissions to air, water designs, including returnable reusable and solid waste, noise and vibration, and The Group is a major manufacturer of packaging where appropriate, and efficient environmental hazards all require formal corrugated board, produced predominantly material specications.
In addition the Group management and a programme to utilise from recycled paper.
Corrugated board is a recommends the Incpen Industry Council best available technology to reduce versatile, cost effective and fully recyclable for Packaging and the Environment emissions: packaging material.
Responsible Packaging Code of Practice which sets out guidelines for optimising effluent compliance: the overall compliance The Group plays a major part in helping the packaging specications.
Often this not of our UK mills improved to 99% from UK meet the requirements of the Producer only makes for efficient packaging but also 96.9% in the previous year: Responsibility Obligations Packaging Waste reduces costs.
regulations 1997, under which certain businesses are required to recover and recycle packaging materials to achieve a minimum annual national recovery target.
28 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002 air emissions CO, SO and NO : All major sites have carried out environmental new procedures to increase vehicle 2 x x the emissions per tonne of saleable paper reviews and eight plants five in the UK, two utilisation and share transportation.
have increased marginally in line with the in France and one in Turkey have achieved increased energy use and these will reduce accreditation to ISO 14001.
Three other Existing procedures for ensuring that as the benets from the energy reduction plants two in the UK and one in Poland are suppliers raw materials are procured from plans are realised.
A new combined heat in the process of obtaining accreditation.
renewable sources managed forests and and power plant has been commissioned Environmental aspects such as paper and recycled material are being further in France which is substantially reducing board recycling and water re-use were taken strengthened.
air emissions: into account in the design of the new corrugated board plant in Italy commissioned John Dickinson Stationery has environmental water emissions: effluent per tonne of in early 2002. significant reductions in waste systems in place at each manufacturing saleable paper decreased at the UK mills.
and savings in energy are being made and location which are generating savings and Sudbrook Mill is planning to reduce its many other local initiatives are taking place efficiencies in energy and material usage.
chemical oxygen demand COD level by including: Work with a distribution partner has 20% over the next five years and is improved the load utilisation of delivery investing to reduce the risk of exceeding increased recycling of water used for vehicles.
Waste streams from the production its suspended solids emission consents.
starch preparation at the St Just plant: processes are segregated and recycled A new secondary effluent treatment plant wherever possible and waste inks and has recently been commissioned at Hollins treatment of fumes from its boiler to adhesives are often returned to suppliers Mill, signicantly reducing the COD and reduce air emissions at opikas, Turkey: for recovery.
Independent analysis of suspended solids in its effluent discharge: production unit effluent is carried out to new equipment to recover water from ensure continued conformance with trade solid waste: total solid waste to landll has the Larousse plant exo washing process.
effluent consents and dust emissions are reduced as a result of improved efficiencies: contained by ltration systems and regularly Office Products monitored.
Volatile organic compound energy: despite operational issues and Spicers continues to examine ways it can emissions have been almost entirely planned downtime the specic energy operate a large vehicle distribution eet and eliminated from envelope production by per tonne increased only marginally at network of warehouses efficiently, to the use of water soluble rather than solvent our UK mills, and is still on plan to meet highest environmental standards.
our targets under the paper sector emissions are targeted for reduction by: climate change agreement: specifying vehicles with low emissions waste-to-energy: a significant waste-tousing new Euro2 engines : energy plant is planned to start operation at Kemsley Mill to be run by Powergen increased use of double deck trailers through the site service company, which signicantly reduce the number Grovehurst Energy Ltd.
This plant will of journeys made: recover energy from the waste byproducts arising from the recovered paper screening regularly reviewing delivery routes and cleaning processes that would to reduce the distances travelled.
otherwise have gone to landll.
It is estimated this will remove 190,000 tonnes Waste reduction and recycling is an ongoing from the waste stream and produce the priority and Spicers achieved a further energy equivalent of 120,000 barrels of increase in the quantity of paper, cardboard oil per annum.
and plastic that was recycled in 2001 02.
The division also operates, in conjunction Corrugated and Plastics Packaging with its customers, a collection and recycling The Groups bre based packaging products scheme for used ink jet and toner cartridges.
are primarily based on recycled paper and New environmental initiatives introduced virtually all the adhesive used is manufactured during the year at our DDC included: from naturally occurring starch.
Plastics packaging products are largely based on the use only of packaging made from polyolens, principally high and low density recycled material: polythene and polypropylene.
Much of the plastic packaging produced can be the introduction of a software system re-used, in some cases many times.
that enables orders to be picked into bags, resulting in reduced packaging usage: 29 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002
