Aggreko WEB pdf 14 3 03 11:40 am Page 18 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY As a truly global enterprise, Aggreko and the environment we are fully aware of our Aggrekos equipment is designed to function in all continents and all types of terrain.
design and use of the most suitable technology, we also aim to minimise the environmental impact These responsibilities are of that equipment in every continent and every terrain in which we operate.
extensive from protecting All Aggrekos equipment and solutions are designed to comply with applicable laws, regulations the environment throughout and industry standards wherever we operate in the world.
In effect, this means they comply with the continents in which we the laws, regulations and standards of the most stringent jurisdictions in which we do business, work, to safeguarding and therefore go far beyond the levels required in many others.
the health and safety of our employees: from reducing Our commitment to the environment is also evident at a more strategic level.
The key features noise pollution to ensuring in our company-wide Environmental Policy include: integrity and honesty in our considering environmental issues in the design, maintenance and operation of our equipment: business dealings.
In these promoting and demonstrating our commitment to pollution prevention: and many other ways, it is working with suppliers, customers and subcontractors to develop more sustainable products Aggrekos objective to operate and services: and worldwide in a safe and integrating environmental considerations into all relevant business decisions.
In 2002 a tangible example of the way in which environmental protection is integral to product design was the launch of the GHP2 rental generator, the result of 18 months of customer consultation and design development.
The design builds on Aggrekos first-generation greenpower design and offers low-exhaust emissions that meet Europes and Californias emission standards, a save-all base to protect against fuel, oil and coolant leakages: and an extremely low sound power level.
Health and safety Just as our corporate responsibility policies respect places, so too do they respect people both our own people and the people impacted by our operations.
It is Aggrekos objective to safeguard the health and safety of our employees, our customers and the communities in which we work.
Among the key features of Aggrekos Health and Safety Policy are: considering health and safety issues throughout the design, maintenance and operation of our eet: supplying safe and reliable products and services to the marketplace: timely communication of our business activities and the risks associated with our operations to employees, customers, governments and the communities in which we operate: working diligently to prevent all incidents by engaging with employees and educating them in the implementation of our policy: and integrating health and safety considerations into all relevant business decisions.
Clean, quiet and convenient So quiet is Aggrekos GHP2 generator that the combined noise level of several of these machines would be quieter than the noise of the average machine in todays rental market.
As a result, GHP2 can now power events where, previously, the use of generators might have been impossible.
Reduced noise pollution is not GHP2s only environmental benefit.
Low-exhaust emissions and a base that prevents fuel and coolant leakages mean GHP2 offers higher levels of protection all round for both people and places.
18 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Aggreko WEB pdf 14 3 03 11:40 am Page 19 A company-wide system In 2002 Aggrekos environmental, health and safety managers from across our regions and divisions joined together to create the Global EH&S Management System GEMS.
The task for 2003 is to drive forward the implementation of GEMS on the frontline of our business for it is here, on the ground, that the greatest environmental and personal injury risks lie.
At the core of GEMS is a Best Operating Practice document that will be distributed to every Aggreko employee worldwide in the first half of 2003.
Most of the GEMS components are already in place, either regionally or globally.
In addition to our Global Environmental, Health & Safety Policy, they include: a uniform accident and incident data collection system: global key performance indicators for environmental, health and safety issues: the implementation of monitoring and measuring tools for those key performance indicators: and the incorporation of environmental, health and safety issues into our selling process.
This new system gives us a comprehensive but practical tool that is truly global, a single vision for corporate responsibility that can be applied throughout the entirety of our operations.
Corporate ethics Aggreko has a reputation for delivering innovation, performance and solutions.
Also at the heart of our long-term success is something less tangible, less easily illustrated with gures or case studies.
This key element is integrity and honesty in our business dealings, a factor that contributes to our long-term relationships with customers.
All Aggreko employees are expected to behave ethically in their work, and our expectations of them are set out in a Corporate Ethics Policy.
The objective of the policy is to make Aggreko a good company to work for, to maintain our reputation for exceptional customer service, and to ensure the business is managed to a consistently high standard.
Employees who suspect any breaches of the Corporate Ethics Policy are encouraged to speak up, and their condentiality and position is protected if they do so.
Managing the policy Responsibility for ensuring that Aggrekos Environmental, Health and Safety Policy is implemented and monitored lies with a nominated member of the Board.
In addition, the Board of Directors of Aggreko plc will ensure that the necessary organisation and resources exist to facilitate the achievement of Aggrekos environmental, health and safety goals.
It is also the responsibility of each and every Aggreko employee to implement the policy and live up to its commitments.
Best Practice goes global The core of GEMS is the Best Operating Practice BOP document completed in 2002.
Regional GEMS managers reviewed every known GEMS procedure and compiled a single Best Practice document.
With every employee, in every permanent and project location worldwide, receiving a copy of the BOP, Aggreko is integrating GEMS into the philosophy of Aggreko worldwide, at every level of the business.
19 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
