Exel plc Annual report 2002 28 Performance At over 20%, Exels airweight growth was In May, Cory signed a contract with the We have completed a series of well above that achieved by the regional Western Riverside Waste Authority to manage very important strategic market as a whole.
Asia Pacific now represents approximately half a million tonnes a year of developments for Cory, positioning around 50% of Exels international airfreight municipal waste, estimated to generate an by weight.
Underlying Exels strong income of 700m over 30 years.
Together the operation as one of the performance has been growth in demand with revenues from additional commercial leading waste management from technology, consumer and retail waste, managed by Cory using the businesses in the UK.
In addition, the business has Authority's facilities, and income from the also produced good performance secured regional freight management sale of recyclables, the contract is expected contracts for a European automotive company to have a turnover of more than 1bn over with strong margins and cash and a contract with Halliburton to provide its full life.
The continued use of Corys River generation.
logistics for its global projects operations.
Thames transport operation will keep over Looking regionally, particularly strong 100,000 heavy goods vehicle movements David Riddle Chief Executive, Cory Environmental performances were achieved by Exels off London's roads every year.
Cory's operations in India, Japan and Malaysia.
innovative solutions for managing waste Exels two largest operations, in Singapore include building and operating a materials and Hong Kong, maintained last years recovery facility which will be one of the record performances.
This was a largest of its kind in the UK.
challenging year, with increased pricing pressure from customers and selected In May, Cory signed a major contract renewal capacity limitations affecting the cost of with Gloucestershire County Council for airfreight impacting margins.
Notwithstanding that, only Taiwan fell Together with significant specialist services, behind last years performance.
US the new contract includes Cory taking over Consolidation Limited has now been fully the operation and management of recycling integrated as a key part of our fast growing centres around the county.
The acquisition has performed well, exceeding In September, Cory acquired the landfill expectations during the first 10 months of assets of the Lyme and Wood Pits Colliery ownership.
The service has become an in St Helens, Merseyside, for 2m.
The site, important part of a number of Exels major which will accept waste from the second contract gains during the year and the quarter of 2003, will generate turnover of Group expects to be able to secure similar approximately 50m over six years.
With opportunities in the future.
other recent planning consents, including the extension to the site at Mucking in Essex, and the approval of the Greatness site in Environmental Kent, Cory has added over eight million cubic metres of consented landfill capacity.
Cory Environmental made significant strategic Corys municipal services business progress during 2002, delivering growth performed in line with last year.
whilst at the same time finalising its new enlarged contract with the Western Riverside Cory Environmental is now well set to Waste Authority in London and expanding consolidate its recent gains.
Management its operations in the North West of England is focusing on developing and enhancing with the acquisition of the landfill assets of the operating performance of its existing the Lyme and Wood Pits Colliery.
Operating activities and pursuing further development profit increased 5.4% to 15.5m 2001: opportunities.
