Exel plc Annual report 2002 46 Governance Corporate social responsibility Corporate social responsibility available on our website.
It details our global During 2002, the Group has Exel believes in the importance of being environmental policy, environmental made good progress developing a good corporate citizen in every country management processes, key environmental its corporate social responsibility in which we operate.
Exel supports the impacts and targets for 2003 and beyond.
disclosure guidelines on social responsibility priorities.
We have published published by the Association of British Exels group environmental policy sets out our Code of Ethics and our Insurers ABI in October 2001, and the the principles for enhancing sustainability, first Environmental Report, statements on corporate social responsibility of minimising environmental impact covering 2002.
CSR in this Annual Report have been drawn and of maximising efficiency.
Within this up in accordance with the ABI guidelines.
framework Exel requires each business unit to adopt and comply with an environmental Exels involvement in the local Exels Code of Ethics sets out the way that policy appropriate to its particular activity.
our core principles of integrity, honesty and The policy provides for the following community has one common respect for people must be applied in dealings principles: aim across the world: to help with all our stakeholders.
The Code can be disadvantaged children and viewed on our website.
During 2003, we will to meet and, where appropriate, exceed young people achieve their continue to communicate the Code to all our all applicable statutory requirements employees, ensure its implementation to measure, manage and report the key full potential.
through active monitoring and reporting and aspects of its environmental performance its inclusion in relevant training programmes.
to continuously improve environmental performance, using appropriate targets 01 John Coghlan, Deputy Chief Executive and Group We have established policies on to implement environmental Finance Director environmental, employment, community management systems across the Group, 02 Val Corrigan, Vice President, Community Affairs, has affairs and health and safety and have where appropriate, in accordance with been with Exel for 30 years and currently works with Exel been developing our policies in other areas ISO14001 employees on a wide range of community related issues during 2002. to integrate environmental performance 03 Chris Stephens, Group Human Resources Director, into its business processes joined Ocean Group in 1996 and today manages Exels Employment to take environmental considerations into global HR function Exels policies and procedures are designed account in its investment decisions to respect the human rights of all to ensure employees are aware of Exels 04 John Dawson, Director of Corporate Affairs, is responsible for shaping the Group's external employees, whether directly employed or commitment to the environment and communications and investor relations functions.
sub-contracted, in accordance with the their responsibility for ensuring these John joined Exel in 2000 UN Declaration of Human Rights.
Exel also policies are implemented complies with the core International Labour to work with suppliers and contractors to 05 Doug Evans, Company Secretary and Corporate Legal Director, joined Exel in January 2000 and supports Organisation conventions, and prohibits include environmental standards in Exels the Board on corporate governance and CSR issues the use of any form of child, under-age procurement processes or forced labour.
to use alternatives to scarce and nonrenewable resources and give them Exel insists on a policy of equal opportunity, priority whenever economically viable by selecting, developing and retaining to put in place effective monitoring and employees on the basis of ability and review processes around established qualifications for the work to be performed.
measures and environmental This is done without discrimination or management systems to ensure prejudice under any circumstances.
Exel compliance and continued development encourages the involvement of employees to consult and involve relevant interested in the planning and direction of their work.
parties including the wider community.
Environment Exels environmental management processes Exel regards environmental sustainability as provide the framework to implement its increasingly important for all its stakeholders environmental policy and are established in and is committed to continuous improvement approximately 40% of the Group, of its environmental performance.
measured as a proportion of total turnover.
These processes are used to identify In February 2003, Exel published its first activities having the potential for significant global Environmental Report which is environmental impact and to review and 01 02 03 04 05 01 John Coghlan 02 Val Corrigan 03 Chris Stephens 04 John Dawson 05 Doug Evans Exel plc Annual report 2002 Governance 47 evaluate those that they can control or practices play in the success of the business.
each region to identify continual influence.
Objectives and targets are set and The main principles of this policy are: improvement and cost saving programmes, progress is measured and monitored using training and other initiatives.
The Risk internal verification processes which are to provide and maintain a safe and Management Steering Committee reviews increasingly embedded within our healthy working environment, these business plans on a regular basis.
It is established corporate governance equipment and systems of work for intended to include all CSR matters in this procedures.
all employees risk review procedure during 2003, as part to accept responsibility for health, safety of the risk management process referred to Environmental impacts from supply chain and welfare of contractors and visitors in the report on corporate governance.
processes cover a wide range of areas such who may be affected by our business as energy use, emissions, vehicle size and activities Community affairs numbers.
In the implementation of best to ensure that our business activities are The commitment made in our Code of practice, Exel has developed a number of undertaken in a responsible manner and Ethics to the communities in which we initiatives to reduce and minimise the in accordance with the relevant statutory operate is a key part of Exels approach environmental impact of our logistics legislation, in order to safeguard the to responsible corporate citizenship.
operations, such as: safety of our customers and members of the public The commitment is underlined by Exels the development of a rail solution within to give our health and safety policy, community mission statement, established a private consortium railfreightonline which is the direct concern of the Executive in 2001: As a socially responsible global which uses intermodal mini freight trains Board, equal status with all our other company, Exel brings the skills and time of capable of carrying the equivalent of six business objectives its employees, together with financial and full lorry loads.
The scheme trials began to hold managers, irrespective of their other resources to help children and young in spring 2002 and demonstrated a faster status, accountable for the policys people develop their full potential.
and cost-effective alternative to road implementation vehicles, whilst reducing carbon dioxide to effectively integrate the policy into the This is being delivered through our own emissions and easing road congestion culture of Exel, by providing all employees charity, The Exel Foundation, which has the use by Exel and its sub-contractors of with such information, instruction, training regional committees in the Americas, UK higher efficiency vehicles, in Thailand and and supervision in safety as is appropriate and Ireland, Europe, Middle East & Africa, in Hong Kong, and fleet management for their position and responsibilities and Asia Pacific.
systems in order to optimise utilisation to ensure that employees at all levels our bespoke European Managed participate in the development, In addition, the P H Holt Benevolent Fund Transport Services solution enables promotion and maintenance of a safe continues to provide support and transparency of vehicle deployment and and healthy working environment development opportunities to Exels operation, ensuring that scheduling is to expect employees to take ownership employees and retired staff.
more efficient, loading improved and the of their own safety and the safety of other number of vehicles on the road, and people who may be affected by their acts During 2002, the Group committed therefore emissions, are reduced or omissions.
charitable donations of 1.2m 2001: in the UK, Exel is working with a specialist 1.2m.
The Foundations matched giving in waste collection and recycling to Exels overall aim is to achieve and maintain programme supports the fundraising improve the management of our waste high standards in our safety performance, work of Exel employees and retired staff, streams primarily cardboard and within the Group and in our industry.
amounting to 120,000 in UK and Ireland packaging and to improve recycling.
To achieve this goal, the policy and the way during the year.
This programme is underway at primary it is operated will be reviewed annually and sites and is planned to be rolled out revised in accordance with developments One of our major aims is to use our logistics across the UK.
and changes in the business.
expertise by tackling issues where logistics can make a difference.
Further examples are given on our website, Exel has a global safety, health and in our Environmental Report and on Cory environmental management programme Exel is therefore a founding member and Environmentals website.
covering our three regions of Americas, the worldwide logistics partner of the Europe, Middle East & Africa and Asia Digital Partnership, an initiative of the Health and safety Pacific.
To date, gap analyses to ascertain Prince of Wales International Business Exels general health and safety policy where improvements can be made have Leaders Forum, which aims to promote provides that the Board and senior been completed for areas containing affordable access to computers and the management team recognise and accept approximately 70% of operations.
Formal internet in disadvantaged South African the vital role that sound health and safety business plans are being put in place within schools and community centres.
Good Exel plc Annual report 2002 48 Governance quality used computers are shipped from employees in the Asia Pacific region have companies in the Americas, Europe and had an excellent year in delivering the Japan, refurbished in South Africa, and then new community involvement strategy.
installed in e-Learning centres across the Relationships have been established country, enabling thousands of young with schools and orphanages in Malaysia, people to obtain first time access to China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Thailand computers and IT training for education and and India skills development.
Exel contributes to the in April 2002, employees from 20 programme by providing logistics support different Exel sites in California joined the and arranging temporary storage, as well First Annual Inland Empire Autism Society as meeting shipping costs not covered by Walk, which raised money for autism corporate donors.
Other initiatives include: the Variety Club Childrens Charity was selected as the UK and Irelands Headline Charity for 2002 03 and a target of 200,000 including matched funding was set.
To date, 125,000 has been donated to the Variety Club Exels Trucks and Child Safety programme TACS aims to teach children aged 7-11 to be safe on the road by creating a greater awareness of large vehicles and their associated dangers.
During 2002, 15,000 children benefited from this programme the Exel Retired Staff network of 64 branches continues to provide support and social activities to Exel pensioners in the UK in conjunction with 185 volunteer visitors.
The quarterly magazines Changing Gear and Wavelength are distributed to Exel pensioners 02 A group of Exels senior management 01 02 working in South Africa to build a hydroponic farm to provide income to the community.
01 In April 2002, employees from 20 03 Photo of Lloyd Hunnigan, former different Exel sites in California joined 03 04 world boxing champion receiving a the First Annual Inland Empire Autism cheque for 110,000 from John Allan, Society Walk, raising money for autism on behalf of the Variety Club.
04 In December 2002, Exel staff from KUL station visited an orphanage in Klang Selangor, West Malaysia to conduct a training programme to educate the children on motivation and teamwork.
