Corporate Social Responsibility Forth Ports PLC 21 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Corporate Social Responsibility Forth Ports PLC is a varied and diverse business.
The new ferry link from Rosyth to Zeebrugge is Its activities depend upon the use of the natural another way in which the Group is facilitating the environment i. e. water for shipping and land for use of the sea to move cargo which would port activities and development and interact otherwise be blocking the road network.
Forth Ports aims to promote sustainability and benefit for wider Trailers and cars now have a direct link between social and environmental groups in conducting the Continent and Scotland.
Without this link its activities, in balance with the creation of vehicles would have to take an existing ferry long-term returns for its shareholders.
or rail link in England e. g. Dover, Hull.
Economic Benefits The existing ships on the route can take 100 trucks and 120 cars each sailing.
Even considering Ports and Shipping the ferry link at Hull, the use of the direct The Group has an extensive involvement in facilitating Scotland Zeebrugge link represents a savings coastal and short-sea shipping.
This is a method potential of around 70,000 truck movements by of transport recognised as environmentally friendly road, equating to approximately 14 million road and encouraged by the European Commission, miles per annum.
UK Government and the Scottish Executive.
As well as using marine routes between Scotland Coastal shipping, facilitated by the existence of and England and the Continent, the Group is ports such as those owned and operated by the investigating the use of barges in the Forth Estuary.
Group, allows large quantities of goods to be Our objective is to make much more use of the Forth carried by uncongested sea routes, taking large Estuary as a Maritime Motorway to provide more volumes of freight off the congested roads within reliable supply chain solutions for our customers.
As an example, one coastal shipment carrying 3,000 tonnes of grain from the port of Within the Central Belt of Scotland we are Dundee to the port of Tilbury removes 120 lorries investigating the movement of cargo from Alloa, from the road network.
Grangemouth and Methil which, in itself, would take 27,170 lorry journeys off the road, a total The Group, with both its Scottish ports division and of over 1 million lorry miles.
This would involve the port of Tilbury on the Thames, already helps to using barges on the River Forth to transport generate this more environmentally friendly way of raw materials and finished products to and from transporting cargo by providing a service for coastal a major production facility.
There is also much more potential for the future as sea routes are uncongested, while the To put this into perspective, the average motorist road network is at full capacity.
Furthermore, the would generally expect to drive between 10,000 rail network is currently unable to accommodate and 13,000 miles a year.
Therefore, the average extra capacity due to the lack of infrastructure motorist would need between 76 and 100 years and investment required to deliver the level of of motoring to cover the same mileage.
The service that the freight industry requires.
benefits to the environment of this type of reduction in lorry use extend beyond congestion Over the past ten years we have handled almost and vehicle emissions.
Such a reduction in lorry three quarters of a million containers in total at use should increase the longevity of our road Grangemouth.
This represents three quarters of surfaces, reducing the frequency of and need for a million movements of goods between Scotland road works with the resultant cost to the taxpayer.
and the South of England which would otherwise be carried by road or rail.
We estimate that this The Royal Yacht Britannia equates to approximately 30 million road miles.
Since opening to the public in October 1998, In addition, our short-sea container business Britannia has welcomed over 1.3 million visitors at Tilbury facilitates road miles savings compared and is one of the few five star visitor attractions with other locations in the South-East which in Scotland.
We believe this saves, on average, 30 miles per container per annum A recent independent report by economic equating to over 3 million road miles per annum.
development consultants found that these visitors Corporate Social Responsibility Forth Ports PLC 22 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 to Britannia have, to date, generated an additional Each of our ports has a number of different plans 42 million of revenue into the Edinburgh economy, certified by a range of bodies to ensure that our staff supporting on average 207 jobs per annum.
are properly trained and aware of regulations, policies and management systems in relation to emergency Environmental Policy issues, oil spills and waste management.
We are The aim of the Group in all its activities, whether it continually striving to reduce fuel and water costs, be port operations or property development, is to particularly through the identification of wastage ensure that any adverse effects on the environment and or leakage.
The Finnish Terminal at Tilbury is are reduced to the best practicable minimum.
the first in the Group to move from a certified quality Furthermore, our activities are carried out in a standard towards certification under ISO 14001 manner that complies with all relevant regulations.
for its environmental management system.
As part of its risk management policy the Board, each year, prepares and reviews a Risk Control and All of the commercial property developments Monitoring Analysis Matrix.
The Matrix includes the undertaken by the Group are based on sustainable assessment, control and monitoring of the impact designs whether renovation or new build projects.
to the business of perceived environmental risks.
Where possible, the aim is to utilise passive heating Day-to-day responsibility for the control and and cooling as opposed to air conditioning.
This monitoring of this risk is delegated to the officers year, the Group has produced a comprehensive and senior managers of the Group including, in environmental statement and our first annual particular, the Harbour Masters and Port Managers.
Environmental Report as Competent Harbour The Group has a dedicated member of staff who Authority is available on the website.
advises senior management on environmental issues as required.
A good example of these policies in action was the exercise carried out this year in respect of Shipping is considered to be generally four times Clearwater Forth.
more fuel efficient than road transport.
A key target of the Group is to move more freight from the roads Clearwater Forth is the name for Forth Ports' oil to sea transport through our ports.
All of our ports spill contingency plan.
The plan provides details have rail links: on a per tonnage basis, rail is twice of the response management structure that will be as fuel efficient as road travel.
Therefore, where activated to co-ordinate the available resources to possible, we encourage the onward movement deal with oil pollution incidents in the Firth of Forth.
of freight from our ports via the rail network.
The plan is exercised every year in conjunction with The Group is highly committed to its involvement in local authorities, BP and Shell.
In October of 2002 a the Forth Estuary Forum, Tay Estuary Forum and major Tier 3 exercise was held which also involved Thames Marine Consultative Committee.
These activating the National Oil Spill Contingency Plan.
bodies are seen by the Group as an essential Almost twelve months of planning went into the communication route to the local communities, exercise, which involved Local Authorities, participating in environmental initiatives and Government Departments, Maritime Organisations, identifying future climate change scenarios for our the oil industry and the media.
This is particularly important, given personnel man the Marine Emergency Centre that each of the estuaries we operate in have areas responsible for overseeing and coordinating the designated as NATURA 2000 conservation sites.
response, the Command Team Leader being the Chief Harbour Master for Forth Ports.
Oslo Bergen Stockholm ATLANTIC OCEAN Maritime Motorway NORTH SEA Some of the main routes which will provide a more reliable supply Edinburgh chain for our customers.
Kbenhavn Odense Dublin Hamburg Kaliningrad Lubeck Rotterdam London Antwerp E R G R A K A S K B A L T I C S E A Corporate Social Responsibility Forth Ports PLC 23 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 The principal aim of the exercise was to validate of Tilbury in terms of training, job search and existing pollution response plans, in particular developing community businesses.
The road, Clearwater Forth, and locally held interfacing plans rail and river links add value to the concept of by tasking the response to a significant marine oil improving Tilbury allowing for investment in the spill in the Firth of Forth.
The magnitude of the local area.
The construction of the Riverside incident was sufficient so as to activate the Promenade for the benefit of the local community National Oil Spill Contingency Plan involving is an example of the port working with the local the participation of the Secretary of States council and regeneration scheme.
The exercise was run over two days and involved every aspect Staff involvement in community projects such of such a large incident, including: as local education governing bodies, industry groups and charities is encouraged.
Tilbury is - Initial Response and Communications also a Corporate Partner of St. Lukes Hospice.
- Containment of Oil This scheme is designed to raise staff awareness - Dispersant use of the work of the hospice as well as assisting - Mobilisation of Aircraft with their fundraising activities.
The Academy of - Exclusion Zones established Logistics and Transport, an initiative to overcome - Oil Recovery at Sea the shortage of skilled employees in this - Beach Containment of Oil and Clean Up category, has been launched with the port of - Salvage Control Tilbury as a major partner, an example of the - Media port working with the wider community and a scheme destined to sustain this important During the fide-brief and summing up following the sector of business.
completion of the exercise, SOSREP concluded that if this had been a real incident it would have The Group also appreciates the role of the Forth been successfully dealt with.
and Tay Fora in engaging communities and stakeholders in issues regarding the management Community Initiatives of the estuarine environments of the Tay and the The process of developing and regenerating Forth.
These organisations play a vital role in Edinburghs waterfront has had a positive effect bringing together the relevant stakeholders in their on the community of Leith, making a significant areas and in raising the awareness of the local contribution to reducing unemployment by more populations.
This was the second year that the than 50% within five years.
Ocean Terminal, the Forth Estuary Forum project manager was an centrepiece of this regeneration process, has on its observer at the Clearwater Forth exercise: after own created over 2,000 jobs in construction and in his first exercise as an observer he wrote an article the centre itself.
It has become a focal point for the in Forthsight the Forth Estuary Forum newsletter community including providing accommodation for a on the experience.
This helps to emphasise the Waterfront Recruitment Centre and for local bodies role that the Forth and Tay Fora have in making such as the Leith Council of Churches, the Leith communities aware of the Group activities.
Citizens Advice Bureau and many local schools.
Conclusion The port of Tilbury is working in partnership with Forth Ports PLC plays an active role in its relations Thurrock Council and the community to regenerate with the wider community and stakeholders the town of Tilbury under auspices of the PORT and seeks to manage these relations and its Scheme Partnership Opportunities for the business activities to create real levels of benefit Regeneration of Tilbury.
The Scheme is designed at an economic, environmental and social level to re-create the towns previous economic both for the Group and the communities in strengths and to generate benefits for the people which it operates.
Ocean Terminal Ocean Terminal has created over 2,000 jobs in construction and within the centre itself.
