26 GKN plc 2002 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW The world of GKN working hard to meet expectations Our vision Meeting expectations through the rigorous management of economic, environmental and social sustainability Like all principled and responsible companies concerned with the long-term sustainability of their business, GKN seeks to operate in a way that balances a number of objectives.
At one level the Group exists to deliver outstanding products and services to customers and superior returns to shareholders.
While doing so GKN also works hard to meet the legitimate expectations of its employees and its wider communities, for there is a common cause in the aspirations of all of these groups which derive benefit from the overall economic, social and environmental performance of GKN.
Every working day some 36,000 people come to work in GKN plants and offices located in more than 30 countries in the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific.
All of those people have expectations of GKN.
They expect to work in a safe environment which will not damage their health.
They expect their rights, dignity and equality of opportunity to be respected by a company which upholds high ethicalstandards.
GKN values the contribution of all its employees and works hard to meet their expectations which also include freedom of association and collective bargaining where requested, fair systems of grievance and discipline, and the eradication of discrimination.
Those 36,000 people live in communities of which their employing company is a member.
Those communities also have expectations.
They expect GKN to minimise the impact of its operations on the environment.
They expect GKN to make a contribution to community life and well-being.
In less developed countries, GKN aims to ensure that community activities are sensitive to the local social environment and will have effective long-term impact.
Dick Etches, Human Resources Director right and Grey Denham, Company Secretary.
27 GKN plc 2002 GKN supports the terms of the UniversalDeclaration of Human Rights for embedding the principles of sustainable development throughout and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and works all the Groups businesses.
Dick Etches, Human Resources Director, towards ensuring that there is no breach of these within its business.
hasoverall responsibility for Health, Safety and Environmental Our ultimate aim must be to ensure that similar standards operate programmes and Grey Denham, Company Secretary, with the internal within our supply chains.
audit department and the Audit Committee, oversees compliance with Group policies.
Delivering sustainable value over the long term goes hand in hand with a rigorous concern for the environment.
In particular GKN The management of social responsibility issues is an integral part will continue to work towards reducing its hydrocarbon usage and of the overall corporate governance procedures and therefore this emissions, water usage and waste production.
We will work more review should be read in conjunction with the Corporate Governance closely with customers and suppliersto improve the recyclability section on pages 78 to 80.
In particular, the management of social, of products and the efficiency of processes.
environmental and ethical risks is encompassed within the internal control procedures described in that section.
Scope of the review This review describes how GKN manages the key elements of The internal control procedures are supplemented by the Groups sustainable development throughout its businesses which are integrated loss prevention policy which covers all accidental described fully elsewhere within this annual report.
Guidelines risk areas and sets out the Groups systematic approach to loss produced by the Global Reporting Initiative GRI have been used as prevention including the principles by which we safeguard our a framework to present the information within the review.
GRI was peoples health, the environment, an uninterrupted supply to our convened in 1997 by the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible customers, and our assets and earnings.
The policy is implemented Economics in partnership with the United Nations Environment by operational management supported by local safety and risk Programme to produce guidelines applicable globally for voluntary experts, divisional and Group loss prevention committees and use by organisations reporting on the economic, environmental and a central loss prevention department.
social dimensions of their activities.
In reviewing our performance Significant incidents are reported to executive Directors within over the calendar year 2002, we describe our governance systems, 24 hours and to the next meeting of the Executive Committee.
GKN which embrace social responsibility issues, provide information applies the same degree of rigour in the management of all aspects on how we engage with stakeholders, describe the Group policies of risk.
The most significant risks in relation to social responsibility which guide the conduct of our businesses worldwide, and review issues are loss of reputation resulting from the manner of operation our performance over a five-year period against a number of key of our businesses and safety issues arising from quality or design of indicators relating to health, safety and the environment.
Both of these could, potentially, impact shareholder The performance data presented covers all of our Automotive and value significantly as well as our employees and the communities Aerospace subsidiary companies.
It has been the subject of selfin which we operate.
In environmental terms, our manufacturing certification by Group companies together with some independent processes are not inherently high risk, however great care is taken verification of data or data collection processes.
We continue to seek to avoid any adverse impact arising.
to influence our joint venture companies in matters of corporate social responsibility and, so far as is practicable, are developing systems to collect similar performance data from those companies.
Economic From the beginning of 2003 we also began collecting data on GKNs financial performance during 2002 is reported elsewhere in diversity in the workplace with a view to reporting in future years.
In achieving those results we were aware of our In previous years we have used sales as a measure for the key responsibilities to our many stakeholders.
This has a number of disadvantages, Working with our stakeholders including distortions caused by price reductions, intra-Group trading We define stakeholder as any person or organisation who is affected and widely varying consumption levels in differing manufacturing by, or whose actions impact upon, our business.
Whilst we are continuing to report Group performance local communities, shareholders, customers, suppliers, employees, by reference to sales despite its limitations we still consider it to be business partners, local authorities, government agencies and the most appropriate measure for presenting information on a Group non-governmental organisations NGOs.
We engage with these basis, we are beginning to collect and analyse divisional data by stakeholders in a variety of ways.
reference to alternative measures of economic activity.
We believe that these will not only reflect more accurately ongoing performance As part of our aim to contribute positively to the communities in but that they will also provide more useful guidance for future which we operate, wherever possible we employ local labour in improvement actions.
We are keeping the situation under review our businesses.
We invest in local community projects both by for future reporting.
wayof financial donations and through the volunteer work of our employees, particularly in less developed countries.
Examples Managing our business of local initiatives are given on page 30.
The principles of good corporate social responsibility are embedded within GKNs values.
These are distributed and displayed throughout During 2002 we initiated meetings with a number of our major the Group and can be viewed on our website www.
shareholders to discuss the Groups performance with regard to corporate social responsibility.
This programme is being extended The Board views very seriously its responsibility for ensuring that to include a number of NGOs.
all the Groups businesses act as good corporate citizens.
Social responsibility matters form part of the initial briefings for Directors In addition to the impact of our own activities, the impact of our on appointment to the Board.
A working group under the chairmanship supply partners and the products we manufacture both during of Ian Griffiths, Managing Director GKN Driveline, has responsibility their life and in their end of life phase are becoming increasingly 28 GKN plc 2002 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED important.
We are in dialogue with key suppliers to identify where transactions must be properly recorded, and assets and confidential we can usefully support them to our mutual benefit.
As a component information must be fully protected and used only for the purpose supplier, the impact of our products has to be addressed also in for which they were provided.
partnership with our customers as well as our suppliers.
This is an Employees are also required to avoid conflicts of interest between increasingly important focus of our activities.
their business relationships and personal activities.
All employees Consultation mechanisms exist throughout the Group to provide have access to appropriate nominated executives or groups of open communication between management and representatives of executives for the purposes of advice and assistance and, where union and non-unionised employees.
Group companies encourage necessary, rulings on ethical issues which may arise.
employee participation in the process for improving health, safety Competition policy To ensure that Group companies comply with and environmental performance.
These include the GKN Safety the laws relating to competition and fair trading, the Group has Award Scheme and the GKN Green Scheme.
These schemes, now in a policy that relevant employees are trained in competition laws their fifth year, recognise success and highlight best practice which applicable to their day-to-day activities.
To date, well over 1,000 is then shared across the Group.
In 2002, a total of 69 businesses senior managers and employees have been trained by way of competed for the awards.
Details of the award winners are given attendance at courses or by use of interactive CD-ROM training later in this review.
packages developed by the Group.
GKN is a founder member of the Industry and Parliament Trust which Data protection policy The Groups Data Protection policy is celebrated its 25th anniversary in 2002 and which commended designed to ensure that personal information held throughout the GKN as an excellent example of a company which supports greater Group is treated with due respect for the privacy of the individual.
understanding and openness between legislators and industry.
The policy is applied worldwide even where it is more exacting GKN is a member of the Engineering Employers Federation and than local legislation.
Confederation of British Industry in the UK and the German Employers Employee disclosure procedures policy Group companies are Federation.
It is also a member of the Society of Motor Manufacturers required to establish appropriate procedures to enable employees to and Traders in the UK, the Society of British Aerospace Companies, the disclose in good faith, at local company or if appropriate at divisional US Organisation for International Investment, the British Occupational level, instances of wrongdoing by other employees at any level, Health Foundation and is a founder member of the UK PerCent Club including any substantial breach of the Groups policies.
Employees and the UK Emission Trading Scheme.
must be able to do so in the knowledge that their concerns will be investigated and dealt with properly and sensitively and without fear of reprisal or disciplinary action.
The process must also provide Social for employees, should they so wish, to make disclosures in writing Living the Groups values in 2002 how GKN people and GKN directly to the Company Secretary or the head of the internal audit businesses are meeting expectations department at the Corporate Centre.
Group policies Compliance with policies Our internal control procedures described Defining our vision on corporate social responsibility is a series in the section on Corporate Governance on pages 78 to 80 are of policies which are applied throughout the Group.
designed to identify material breaches of the policies outlined above.
No such breaches have been identified in respect of 2002.
Employment policies The Groups Employment Law and Practices policy requires every business in the Group to adopt employment Political donations GKN does not make donations to political parties.
policies and procedures ensuring that employees and prospective Defence industry involvement employees are given equal opportunities irrespective of sex, race, GKN is aware that there are some investment organisations and sexual orientation, disability, religion or ethnic origin.
Wherever it individuals concerned by involvement in the defence industry.
GKNs operates, the Group complies with local employment law and practices.
primary interest in defence equipment is through its helicopter joint All businesses are required to ensure that employment decisions venture, AgustaWestland.
All sales outside domestic markets are in are based on qualifications and merit.
The working environment strict accordance with UK and Italian Government export approval must respect employees human dignity and rights and be free from procedures, as appropriate.
GKN Aerospace Services is also a first all forms of discrimination and from any form of conduct, physical tier supplier of aerospace structures for US and European military or verbal, which could be considered to be harassing including aircraft programmes, the export of which is in accordance with sexual harassment, coercive or disruptive.
Working conditions government export approval procedures.
must be safe and healthy and there are specific requirements in Education and training relation to substance abuse and dangerous weapons.
GKN is committed to achieving the highest standards of performance Policies are designed to encourage employees to report and discuss and ensures through training and development, at all levels within problems on a confidential basis and to provide expeditious and the organisation, that employees have the skills and experience to confidential grievance procedures.
perform their roles as effectively as possible and are able to achieve their potential within a culture of empowerment and accountability.
Ethical standards policy All GKN employees are required to maintain high standards of integrity, honesty and fair dealing.
As part of the GKNs International Leadership Development Programme recruits overall Group Ethical Standards policy, individual divisional and high calibre graduates from many of the worlds leading universities.
company policies require that allbusiness should be conducted The programme exposes individuals to diverse business situations with respect to human dignity and rights, and in compliance with through demanding project work, instils confidence and self sufficiency all applicable laws and regulations, and that corrupt practices and through international placements and develops proficiency in a the acceptance or making of bribes be prohibited.
29 29 GKN plc GKN plc 2002 2002 GKN Driveline, Alamance facility, North Carolina, USA Local time 13:44 hrs, 4 December GMT 18:44 hrs, 4 December Its Christmas Cheer at Alamance as employees collect gifts to brighten North Carolina, USA up the festive season for local families in need.
This is just one of a number of fund-raising programmes which people in the facility organise every year.
From left to right: Tom McCoy, Brenda Fargis, 13:44HRS Cheiri White and Diane Walters.
30 GKN plc 2002 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED The Emerging Leaders programme, developed with Columbia in community service activities.
An engineering team from the University, USA, targets young individuals with the potential to Alamance facility in North Carolina has been a major force in the progress quickly to a key role within the Group and who are an Habitat-for-Humanity project to construct homes for the needy and important part of GKNs succession plan.
Divisions operate their wascommended for exceeding the achievements of any other team own development programmes and apprentice training schemes on the project during 2002.
Other projects include a high school operate throughout the Group.
dropout prevention programme and assisting poor families with food, clothing, fuel and presents at Christmas.
Across the US the The Business Excellence Programme is being deployed progressively GKN Foundation, a charitable body established some 30 years ago, on a worldwide basis as the primary route to best-in-class standards supported more than 250 different organisations in 2002 with in all aspects of managing the business.
The programme uses contributions of over $300,000.
Business Excellence models and Six Sigma tools to identify opportunities for continuous improvement in many activities Brazil GKN do Brasil Ltda supported the building of a childrens including leadership, people development and empowerment, hospital in Porto Alegre and also helped restore a chapel which had operational processes and customer relationship management.
fallen into serious disrepair, providing a local place of worship for It has a particular focus on knowledge sharing and innovation.
This is in addition to continuing support in the form of waste wood used as building materials for a centre in As part of its community activities, GKN is also committed to the Porto Alegre which looks after the elderly, sick and those suffering promotion of training and development outside the Group.
In the from drug addiction.
UK, GKN has for many years supported Young Enterprise, both financially and through the provision of business advisers.
GKN India GKN Sinter Metals Ltd operates a wide range of activities also provides management representation on its Board and providing financial support for the children of employees to Leadership Council.
GKN supports the Engineering Education encourage them to pursue full-time education.
On the companys Scheme and Year in Industry and founded the West Midlands Annual Day merit certificates and cash gifts are given to the children Technology Tree.
The Technology Tree was originally confined to who successfully pass their school exams.
A Consumer Co-operative West Midlands schools and in 2002, under the auspices of the and an Employee Welfare Fund assist employees with their day-toEngineering Employers Federation, it was launched nationally.
Income day household necessities and medical requirements.
Employees from The GKN Millennium Trust, a charitable trust established in 1995, also contribute a days wages, which is matched by the company, is used to fund a Chair of Manufacturing Engineering at Cambridge to help those affected by naturalcalamities such as floods, drought University.
An example of educational activities overseas is the and earthquakes.
Family Development Plan at GKNs joint venture in Mexico, Velcon, South Africa GKN Sinter Metals plant in Cape Town actively supports which is designed to bridge the development and educational gap the Joan Cousins HIV AIDS Mission with counselling, school and that can exist between employees and their families.
At weekends business education, home care and support for people affected by up to 700 employees and family members attend sessions on AIDS.
In 2002 GKN plc provided the Mission with a motor vehicle to cooking, languages, sports, music and remedial education.
GKN and its people in their communities UK GKNs charitable fund in the UK made contributions to organisations The Group is committed to enhancing the welfare of communities primarily focused on education and the community.
In addition, in which it operates through charitable donations and practical individual businesses and their employees, such as AgustaWestland assistance.
In 2002, charity and community contributions by in Yeovil, Somerset and OffHighway and AutoComponents in Telford, GKN plc and its subsidiary companies amounted to some 1 million.
Shropshire, operate their own charity and community support Those organisations to which donations were made in 2002 are programmes.
In Yeovil, a group of apprentices have helped a local listed on GKNs website www.
inventor to demonstrate the feasibility of a unique system to produce Community support is widespread across GKNs worldwide electrical energy from the pressure generated by vehicles on the road operations.
The following are just a few examples: surface leading into the plant.
At the GKN Corporate Centre in Redditch external maintenance is carried out in partnership with a national USA GKNs largest concentration of employees is in the US.
Within charity which assists people with learning and social difficulties to GKN Automotive Incs seven driveline facilities in North and South gain experience and confidence in a working environment.
Carolina and Michigan, 95% of the 2,100 employees take part Employee numbers Employee numbers as at 31 December 2002 as at 31 December 2002 Automotive UK 10,900 Subsidiaries 29,800 Continental Europe 20,400 Joint ventures 3,500 Americas 12,900 Aerospace Rest of the World 4,400 Subsidiaries 5,900 Joint ventures 9,400 including subsidiaries and joint ventures 31 GKN plc 2002 How GKN manages health and safety rate are shown below.
Additional measures are used at corporate, Management of health and safety is an integral part of the Groups divisional and plant level to drive other elements of our occupational loss prevention policy.
Primary responsibility for health and safety safety and health management system and improvement process.
rests with operational management supported by functional specialists.
The chart below left shows the accident frequency rate i. e. the Employees and their representatives are also actively involved in the number of incidents resulting in an individual being unable to work development and implementation of safe systems of work.
The GKN for one day or more per 1,000 employees per annum.
The chart occupational safety and health management system is based on below right shows the accident severity rate i. e. the number of days keyenablers which are used to assess the current position and lost due to accidents per 1,000 employees per annum.
Over the set targets to achieve and maintain performance improvement.
past five years the Group has improved its performance by 55% for Businesses submit health and safety performance data every six AFR and 30% for ASR.
This reflects increasing management attention, months which is reported to the GKN Executive Committee and a proactive approach to risk reduction and prevention and thorough the Board.
Feedback allows them to benchmark performance and investigation of accidents to prevent recurrence.
Particular attention is also paid to enablers, In 2002, the incidence of serious injuries, including those that such as leadership and training, which are reported and reviewed involved an employee being absent from work for four weeks or at least annually at Executive Committee level and more frequently more, was 2.2 per 1,000 employees a 39% improvement over at divisional and plant level.
Each business is required to have safety improvement objectives.
GKN was deeply saddened by the deaths of two independent Whilst some objectives are established at Group level, most are contractors in 2002 as a result of accidents on GKN premises, set at divisional or plant level to reflect the particular needs, risks, both at plants in India.
One involved an electrician and the other a priorities and opportunities within individual business operations.
Both events were the subject of detailed internal and Where performance does not meet acceptable standards, managers external investigation and although safeguards were in place, further have to present improvement plans to the GKN Executive Committee improvement measures have been implemented.
It is also with regret or divisional committees.
that we report the death of a flight test engineer at AgustaWestland, Safety review visits involving senior executives at corporate, our joint venture helicopter company, when a development AB139 divisional and business level continue to provide visible leadership helicopter crashed during pre-certification flight testing at Rimini, Italy.
and involvement from the top.
Feedback discussions which include In 2002, 15 enforcement actions at plants in the UK, USA, Australia employee representatives identify strengths and weaknesses together and Brazil included two prohibition notices related to specific pieces with practical and sustainable improvement processes.
A second of equipment, five improvement notices and other mainly minor phase to the process comprises an improvement workshop to develop actions with fines totalling 14,000. the learning points and improvement opportunities in more detail.
Although the safety improvement trend has continued, the Executive The determination to continue to improve safety performance and Committee has maintained a particular focus on serious accidents maintain a proper consideration of all stakeholder interests provided and has continued actively to drive improvement in the application the basis for a major case study at the GKN International Leadership of prevention techniques.
Senior executives from all GKN businesses had to consider a hypothetical new GKN acquisition in In a keynote article for GKN Management News, Marcus Beresford, terms of what was needed to achieve improvement in safety systems the then Chief Executive wrote: and performance and also had to deal with a mock serious accident Our most recent results show that while we may be having fewer including face to face meetings with key stakeholders both internal accidents those which do occur are of the more serious kind.
The direct experiences some uncomfortable and be easy for us to express regret but we should never forget that for lessons learned have provided a more informed leadership with the individual and their family the effects can be devastating.... additional insights to help drive improvement.
It is the task of all of us, but especially everyone in management Safety performance and leadership roles, to give meaning to the GKN values and drive Key performance indicators are established for safety, the most through improvements in equipment, systems and behaviour.
significant of which accident frequency rate and accident severity Accident Frequency Rate AFR Accident Severity Rate ASR per 1,000 employees per 1,000 employees 02 13.4 02 297 01 19.7 01 350 00 21.4 00 359 99 24.8 99 372 98 29.8 98 426 32 GKN plc 2002 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED Occupational health implementation of action plans, the measurement of results and then GKNs concern goes beyond the employees physical safety and the beginning the whole cycle again with re-evaluation of performance.
prevention of accidents at work to focus heavily on the avoidance of GKNs EMS covers a number of key elements including general work related ill health.
Occupational health OH practitioners work environmental management systems, hazardous materials closely with safety and environmental advisers to create a working management, air pollution control, water, waste, soil and environment which minimises the risk to employee health.
groundwater management and noise and energy management.
The efficiency of work equipment, and the use of chemicals and 50 sites have been accredited to ISO 14001, an increase of 30 physical agents are important considerations.
We utilise risk from 2001, and three to the European EMAS standard.
We are assessment and safe working systems analysis to define how the currently investigating the possibility of co-ordinating the efforts job will be done without causing harm.
Surveillance programmes of companies, and their certifying bodies, to use ISO 14001 enable the detection of any ill effects at the earliest stage so action certification as a more effective means of demonstrating compliance can be taken to prevent continuing exposure.
OH issues are reviewed to a common environmental management and reporting system.
centrally and regularly discussed, along with safety matters, by the The increasing concern about climate change led GKN in 2000 to Executive Committee.
set an internal target of a 5% reduction relative to sales in carbon GKN Safety Awards dioxide emissions by 2005 starting from a 1999 baseline.
This target More than 100 people representing GKNs worldwide operations is intended to ensure that GKNs reduction in emissions is broadly gathered in Paris in October 2002.
Many were there to receive in line with the targets set in the Kyoto Protocol.
awards on behalf of their businesses for outstanding achievement in Review and auditing the areas of health and safety and the environment.
Others, from the Group businesses continue to make annual self assessments senior management team, were there to honour those achievements.
of environmental risk, management and performance.
In 2002 The GKN Safety Award winners were GKN Automotive in the US, a system of quarterly reporting was introduced to ensure early GKN OffHighway Systems and GKN AutoComponents at Telford in the notification of trends.
Company financial controllers are required UK, GKN Sinter Metals Emporium, Pennsylvania, USA, GKN FAD SpA, to confirm the processes by which data is collected within their Italy, GKN Sinter Metals Wisconsin, USA, and GKN Aerospace Chemcompany.
In addition, as part of the certification to ISO 14001 by tronics in California, USA.
GKN FAD SpA, which was also the overall Group companies, external independent certifying bodies will assess winner receiving the Chief Executives Shield, embarked on a major the suitability of systems that are in place to gather and report data.
safety improvement programme following its acquisition in 2000 As part of its obligations as a member of the UK Emission Trading and over two years reduced its ASR by 85% and its AFR by 87%.
Scheme, GKN has employed external verifiers to check the accuracy of emission data collected during 19982000, the baseline years of this scheme.
This activity will continue during the five-year life Environmental of the scheme.
How GKN manages environmental issues Performance Environmental management forms an integral part of the Groups We continue to concentrate on four key performance indicators, loss prevention policy.
The primary responsibility for environmental energy use and associated carbon dioxide emissions, waste management, as with health and safety, rests with operational generation, water use and volatile organic compound VOC management.
Support is provided by environmental specialists consumption.
As described on page 27 Scope of the review, the within the businesses and at the Corporate Centre.
data in respect of these suffers from some distortion as a result of The Group environmental management system EMS is part of the the differing profiles of the various manufacturing businesses and in integrated loss prevention approach and is broadly based on the particular by the relatively high energy consumption of the US metal international EMS standard, ISO 14001.
The core element of GKNs powder manufacturer, Hoeganaes, acquired in 1999.
Performance EMS is a requirement for continuous improvement driven by the data for Hoeganaes in 1998 is not available and therefore is not measurement and evaluation of performance, the identification and included in the charts below.
Group performance: Energy Group performance: Waste index is normalised to 1,000 sales with 1998 as 100 index is normalised to 1,000 sales with 1998 as 100 02 121 02 119 01 119 01 107 00 128 00 121 99 124 99 119 98 100 98 100 33 GKN plc 2002 Energy consumption The relative energy usage in 2002 has separate basis in future although we will continue internally to monitor increased from 2001 due principally to increased production levels their use.
at Hoeganaes, where sales increased by 21%.
Although Hoeganaes In 2002, there were no instances in which action by regulatory total sales represent only 4% of Group sales, its energy consumption authorities disrupted production.
However, two fines totalling accounts for over 17% of the Group total.
The consumption of energy $165,000 were paid for violation of air permit and air quality and the associated emissions of carbon dioxide will continue to be requirements relating to practices which pre-dated the acquisition of a key focus in the coming years.
As a founder member of the UK the businesses concerned.
Two other fines were imposed for exceeding Emission Trading Scheme, GKN has committed itself to reducing the permitted zinc concentration in a waste water discharge $450 carbon dioxide emissions in the UK by 10,000 tonnes during the and the late submission of an oil remediation plan $8,500.
This represents an ambitious target of around 10% in our absolute emissions over a five-year period.
In the first GKN Green Scheme Awards year of the scheme GKN exceeded its targets.
The income from The GKN Green Scheme recognises and rewards Group companies incentive payments made by the UK Government under the scheme which have developed innovative ways of reducing their environmental and the sale of surplus allowances will be redistributed to Group impact.
The GKN Green Scheme Award winners in 2002 were GKN companies to support further energy saving projects.
Indugasa and GKN Forjas fide Precision fide Legazpia in Spain, GKN Aerospace Chem-tronics in the US, GKN Sinter Metals Radevormwald Waste generation Following a significant fall in waste generation as in Germany, GKN Sheepbridge Stokes based in Chesterfield in the UK a percentage of sales in 2001, 2002 saw an increase.
Most of GKNs and GKN Gelenkwellenwerk Kiel in Germany.
Each of these businesses waste 63% is metal scrap which is recycled.
In 2002 there was a developed products or processes which resulted in significant significant amount of reorganisation in some companies which will reductions in, for example, raw materials, carbon dioxide emissions, increase the efficiency of their operation in the future but in the short water usage or waste.
The overall winner was GKN Aerospace term resulted in redundant plant and machinery which had to be Chem-tronics for the development of a process to convert hazardous disposed of as scrap.
The increased production levels achieved at waste into a non-hazardous product for use in the production the Hoeganaes facility at Gallatin inevitably resulted in an increase and refinement of alloys and for the development of a re-usable in waste slag at that plant.
However, it should be noted that all raw packaging system for the transport of jet engine components.
material used in the production of metal powder at Gallatin is itself scrap metal.
Water consumption Water consumption rose in 2002 after a number Conclusion of years of successive falls.
Whilst this increase was in part due to In preparing this review we have, as indicated previously, followed increased production levels, the overall level of water usage will be best practice and reported within the framework recommended by a key focus of attention over the ensuing year.
Each element covered in the review Volatile Organic Compounds VOC GKN, although not a major user of represents an integral part of the way in which we conduct our volatile organic compounds, recognises their environmental impact business.
Our aim is to continue to develop all aspects of our and closely monitors their use.
The principal uses of these materials corporate social responsibility agenda and to progress towards are as constituents in paint systems and in cleaning solvents used in long-term sustainability in allof our products and processes.
In recent years the introduction of high solids i. e. low We will continue to work together with all of our stakeholders solvent paints has resulted in a steady reduction in the amounts of towards the achievement of this goal.
these substances used by the Group and the significant reduction from 1999 to 2000 is part of that pattern.
This programme is now complete and significant future reductions are not expected.
The level of VOC use, and hence VOC emissions, is expected to reflect production levels in future years unless significant changes in painting technology, such as the introduction of powder coatings, take place.
As a result we will cease to report VOC usage on a Group performance: Water Group performance: VOC index is normalised to 1,000 sales with 1998 as 100 index is normalised to 1,000 sales with 1998 as 100 02 88 02 59 01 85 01 66 00 88 00 59 99 94 99 81 98 100 98 100
