GREGGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Company has established an aspirational statement of values which clearly sets out A group of dedicated staff work together for the benefit of the community by behaviours that are embraced by the Board and expected of all colleagues.
organising the major annual fun run sponsored by Greggs of Gosforth in aid of childrens cancer research.
This has raised well over 2 million since its inception in We will be enthusiastic and supportive in all that we do, open, honest and 1983.
A similar run is due to take place for the first time in Manchester in 2003. appreciative, treating everyone with fairness, consideration and respect.
The Companys investment of 500,000 in 2000 in the Newcastle Employment This has been communicated to all who work in the business and is becoming Bond for a five year period, which is secured as to repayment by Northern Rock plc.
embedded in the Companys culture.
This investment is at zero rate of interest.
The purpose of the investment is for all the Our culture and values are built upon a foundation of awareness of our social responsibility.
interest foregone to be used to help tackle long term unemployment in the Greggs is committed to making a positive difference for our customers, our people, Newcastle area.
our suppliers and for the wider communities in which it operates.
Although Greggs provides funding and makes time available for its staff to become engaged in these community activities, the real credit is due to the staff themselves, at all levels, Customers, people and suppliers for their voluntary commitment and for the inestimable benefit of what they achieve in This positive difference will result from the increasing adoption of our values as a basis Greggs name.
for all of our activities.
Our people are expected to use them as a reference point in their relationships with each other and, in turn, with customers and suppliers.
The Environment Our values act as a framework within which the business seeks to manage its activities The Company recognises the importance of protecting our environment for future and are carefully considered in the setting of policies by which we operate and which, generations and is committed to carrying out its activities with due consideration for the in turn, affect the way in which we operate.
"adverse environmental impacts of its operations and in line with ""Our Values""."
Statement of Intent In particular, this affects the areas of food safety and health and safety which are key areas of focus for Greggs customers and people.
Greggs plc has identified the key environmental impacts of its activities.
We are committed Wider Communities to an ongoing programme of continual reduction of any adverse impacts and prevention of pollution consistent with our long term business objectives.
In support of this policy the Greggs also seeks to use these values in its relationships with the wider community and, Company intends that it will: by doing so, have a beneficial effect on the lives of people generally, for example: Develop and implement a recognised Environmental Management System EMS.
"Charities Comply with all relevant environmental legislation, regulation and other requirements On a nationwide basis, Greggs is a member of the ""Per Cent"" Club and made applicable to the Company or to which the Company subscribes."
charitable donations of 379,000 in 2002, the bulk of which was directed through Greggs Trust.
Endeavour to reduce waste at source via the efficient use of resources and encourage re-use and recycling of wastes.
Greggs Trust is a registered charity, founded by Ian Gregg in 1987.
Its main objective is the alleviation of the effects of poverty and social deprivation in the areas where the Work towards increasing energy efficiency at all its sites.
Its income in 2002 was 635,000, derived partly from the Greggs Monitor and aim to improve the performance of vehicles owned by Greggs plc.
plc donation, staff fund-raising initiatives, many staff fund raising activities, such as Bakery open days, direct the proceeds to Greggs Trust, and donations received from Work towards ensuring that policies and procedures are in place so that accidents and employees under Give As You Earn the Companys Payroll Giving Scheme.
incidents with potential adverse environmental impact are controlled as far as is The balance was received in the form of donations from major shareholders and reasonably practicable.
income from investments including shares in Greggs plc held by the Trust.
Funds are Progressively make employees aware of the environmental issues relevant to their role distributed by the Trustees and via the 13 staff Charity Committees operating across within Greggs plc.
the country, offering support to good causes within our trading areas.
Take into account the adverse impact on the environment of any capital expenditure The Greggs Breakfast Club scheme is designed to get children in selected primary project.
schools off to a better start by providing them with free breakfasts.
Greggs funds all of the food, including providing fresh bread from the local Greggs shop, together with In order to manage these commitments the Company intends to set appropriate the necessary equipment.
Under the now well established model, Greggs staff work objectives and targets, which will be monitored and reviewed regularly.
with school teachers to encourage parents, grandparents and others to run the clubs, including serving the breakfasts, thereby helping them to help others in their own communities.
There are already over 40 Greggs Breakfast Clubs and it is intended that this will increase over time.
The concept has been validated by external independent research, which has shown that breakfast club attendance encourages children to get to school on time and increases attentiveness in class.
