Corporate Responsibility PROGRESS REPORT 2002 During the year we continued to make progress in implementing our programme for sustainability and our Employment and Human Rights Code, communicating via our internal magazine Hays Newswire and our web-site www.
TRANSPORT AND TRAVEL In Hays Logistics UK, we are to trial a revolutionary dual fuel tractor unit on behalf of a major customer.
This development in engine technology uses a combination of compressed natural gas and diesel, providing cleaner emissions and reduced fuel costs.
We are also currently conducting trials of Dipetane, an innovative product which improves diesel usage and reduces carbon emissions.
We have also agreed to be among the first UK operators to trial the use of emulsified diesel.
At our site in Dagenham all manual handling equipment has been fitted with control and management systems which cut out the engines if left idling.
On the Continent, our fleet replacement policy is to make full use of environmentally friendly, cost saving Euro 3 engines.
It is also our policy to lease only diesel-powered company cars and, working with a major European customer, we have introduced economy driving training.
In Hays Mail and Express, our direct-to-the-door deliveries by Hays DX Metro in central London, Manchester and Edinburgh utilise environmentally friendly liquefied petroleum gas vehicles, pictured on page 16.
ENERGY-WATER-WASTE We are taking part in the London Guildhall Universitys Environmental Business Action project, examining waste-management processes and policies.
As part of this project, we are working with Greener World to introduce bins with colour codes for specific products cardboard, plastic and timber, trays in offices to capture paper, recycling toners and light tubes.
Hays Logistics France is a leading member of ASLOG French Association for Logistics, which promotes environmental best practice standards in logistics throughout Europe.
At our Hays Logistics UK Iveco site in Winsford, measures have been introduced to reduce waste from spare parts arriving from motor manufacturers in Europe.
A shredding machine recycles cardboard for reuse as packaging, and wooden pallets have been replaced by returnable, stackable plastic containers.
General waste is now compacted to reduce skip usage and containers are no longer marked with the customers logo, making them cheaper and easier to recycle.
For our crate management contract with Sainsburys in the UK, Hays Asset Control Solutions utilises environmentally friendly and efficient means to transport fresh produce and also collect plastic and cardboard for recycling.
At our Minworth site, Hays Logistics UK has two bailing machines, bailing four tonnes of cardboard and one tonne of shrink-wrap per month for recycling.
Throughout all our UK businesses we recycle printer cartridges and we plan to do the same in France by the end of 2002.
PROCUREMENT Across Europe we request and audit environmental statements from suppliers, focusing in particular on their recycling and environmental policies.
Our procurement teams consult regularly on environmental issues and work with suppliers to establish environmental action plans.
For example, we have specified in electricity tenders that at least 10% of electricity supplied to us is denominated as green energy.
Also, a major computer supplier has been appointed to manage the whole life cost of our IT assets and their environmental disposal.
In addition, we are placing bulk gas installations on most Hays Logistics UK sites for re-fuelling gas counterbalance trucks to reduce the use of disposable bottles.
Furthermore, consolidated billing is being introduced throughout our offices to reduce paper usage, disposal arrangements for photocopier equipment have been agreed with a major dealer and our corporate stationery list includes a range of environmentally friendly products.
GOOD NEIGHBOUR POLICY Hays strongly supports the communities in which we operate, regularly communicating with key stakeholders and involving ourselves in local projects.
For example, Hays DX assists the charity Vision Aid Overseas by collecting old spectacles from opticians and sorting them for refurbishment and eventual re-use in Africa.
At our Hays Sodibelco logistics site in Cornaredo, Italy, we moved our main site entrance to an uninhabited street, considerably reducing noise levels at nearby apartment buildings and the local community.
We will continue to develop and roll out our sustainability programme across our operations during the current year.
