IMI adds value through responsible business practice that is mindful of the earths resources and the communities in which the company operates Peter Bissell Head of IMI Group Risk Management.
Responsible business is good business We believe that working in ways that are sustainable and have regard for the needs of tomorrow as well as those of today makes good business sense.
Caring for the environment and being a responsible corporate citizen often referred to as Corporate and Social Responsibility or CSR add value to a business, impacting positively on profitability, reputation and growth.
In practical terms this translates into programmes and policies that provide care for the people working inside our organisation, interacting with and living around it, as well as minimising the impact on the wider environment.
We take our responsibilities seriously and good health, safety and sustainable environmental practice are fundamental to the way we do business.
com carries further information about how we do this, including our code of business principles, our health, safety and environmental policy, our environmental report and monitoring procedures as well as information about and links to some of the charitable, community and social programmes supported by the Group.
Health, Safety and Environment Policy Our Health, Safety and Environment HS&E Policy influences key investment decisions relating to new plant and equipment and the way in which we manage our processes and business practices.
It also supports our Environmental Management System which helps the business units formulate appropriate strategies for identifying and controlling environmental risk, comply with current and future legislation and provide information and training for employees.
Monitoring and management Our performance, progress and planning in HS&E are given very high priority by managers at all levels and are monitored regularly.
In addition, the Groups health, safety and environmental performances are subjected to a detailed annual audit.
The results are reviewed in detail by the Executive Committee and its conclusions form the basis of any necessary actions by 20 responsible business the presidents of the operating units, who are Norgren supplies clients with pneumatic products responsible for implementing policies in the units characterised by the efficient management of leakage.
In addition, a Health, Safety and This simultaneously minimises noise pollution and Environment Forum is held annually in order to maximises energy efficiency.
At its own Lichfield plant establish, share and promote best practice.
it has reduced air leaks by 50 per cent, while the installation of a new, smaller compressor produces Some highlights 33 per cent more air.
The 2002 Index of Corporate Environmental Engagement survey conducted by Business in the Polypipe Bathroom and Kitchen Products, Environment amongst the FTSE 350 companies, gave Manchester, has redesigned the packaging for some us an excellent overall rating with an average score of two thirds of their products.
The simplified box made 93% and ranked us 4th in the general industrial sector.
of recycled cardboard can be assembled by machine and has resulted in raw material savings of 11%.
We are deploying innovative  energy saving technologies in our facilities and Community involvement operations.
This year, using heated air from its Community involvement takes place at many levels compressors, previously vented externally, to heat the across all IMI businesses, ranging from IMI plcs role as a facility, our Cornelius plant in Mason City, USA, has founder patron of the City of Birmingham Symphony saved both energy and the cost of auxiliary heating.
Orchestra and Symphony Hall to a large number of At Norgrens Shipston plant in the UK, efficient gas local initiatives by employees at our facilities around heating has been installed, producing substantial the world.
Meanwhile, geo-thermally heated All UK-based IMI engineering graduates, for example, groundwater provides space heating for TA in Sweden.
are required to undertake a six-month community project during their training period.
In the past year New plants in China and Mexico, coming into full projects have included work with young offenders, a operation in 2002, have been built with technologically furniture repair programme, and organising an Asian advanced water treatment facilities.
In the UK, arts and cultural festival.
Norgrens Lichfield site has successfully reduced water DCI Marketings participation in a charity drive in the usage by an estimated 6,000 cubic metres per annum Milwaukee area in conjunction with the 2002 Food for following the installation of percussion taps.
Families programme is also typical.
This raised several Bulk product dispensing systems from our Cannon tons of food, as well as cash.
business help to preserve increasingly scarce resources For the last five years, Display Technologies has by encouraging consumers to buy in bulk and to avoid contributed money and services to Queens Child wasteful packaging.
Guidance Centre QCGC in New York.
A communitybased non-profit agency, QCGC promotes the The efficient use of energy in buildings is a major wellbeing of children, adolescents and their families.
driver for our Indoor Climate business, where our Our Norgren business holds seasonal parties for unique service proposition delivers substantial energy pensioners and employees children at its primary savings while improving personal comfort in hotels, locations.
Employees participated in events to raise public buildings and offices.
funds for a wide range of charitable causes and also All the refrigerants we use are CFC free and have established links with local schools to provide work minimal environmental impact both in use and on experience opportunities.
CCI achieves a strong spirit disposal.
In addition, Cornelius is working closely with of employee commitment through similar activities.
customers to develop alternative refrigeration While these examples provide an indication of IMI techniques.
engagement with local communities, the rewards of mutual understanding and benefit are appreciated CCIs expert knowledge of valve design technology wherever IMI has a permanent presence.
provides reliable and environmentally safe operation in petrochemical, power generation, oil and gas and other sectors where the control of hazardous fluids is vital.
