16 Inchcape in the community As a company with extensive international interests, Inchcape firmly believes in supporting the many different communities and cultures that our colleagues and businesses operate within.
As a company with extensive international Our other UK based businesses have Inchcape Motors Australia has committed interests, Inchcape firmly believes in supporting also taken part in many fundraising events a significant amount of resources to supporting the many different communities and cultures in order to support a diverse number of local charities including their continual that our colleagues and businesses operate charities and employees have contributed support for the Starlight Foundation, within.
This is achieved by promoting their personal time and energy to many local a charity that looks to brighten the lives schemes at a local level for local people.
For example Inchcape Fleet of seriously ill children in Australia.
We encourage our employees to involve Solutions took part in the Network BEN Fundraising activities for the Foundation themselves in the issues, which affect their yachting challenge.
BEN is the motor included a charity auction, which donated a local environment, and this provides their industry benevolent fund, a charity that range of prizes, at the launch for the Subaru community with much needed funds and has been continually supported by Inchcape Impreza in Sydney.
This event raised a assistance and encourages a feeling of throughout the UK.
All the profits from the total of c. 7,000 for the Foundation.
At the involvement for all our staff.
days challenge including racing and leisure Subaru 2002 Golf Day another auction was At Head Office level we maintain that sailing of three Inchcape sponsored yachts held, which raised 7,220. philosophy by donating to one nominated were donated to BEN.
In 2002 we supported Youth At Risk, a charity that over the last decade has worked with hundreds of young and underprivileged people in different regions throughout the UK.
Through various staff events, such as charity fun runs, organised during the year we have generated interest and support for the cause.
The Cadaques Orchestra, BEN, the motors industry featured here, was the first benevolent fund, which supports Spanish orchestra to take part past and present employees of in the Toyota Classics, which the industry in times of need have been running for a total of thirteen years Youth at Risk, the charity supported by Inchcape head office in 2002, which works with underprivileged young adults in the UK A cheque was presented to left to right John Budge, Chairman of the Hong Chi Association, at the Toyota Classics concert by Betty Tung, first lady of Hong Kong, Yoshio Uesaka, Executive Vice President of the Toyota Motor Corporation and William San, Deputy Managing Director of Crown Motors Ltd Inchcape plc Annual report 2002
