18 Environment, health and safety Inchcape is committed to pursuing sound environment, health and safety management policies and practices throughout our business.
Inchcape is committed to pursuing regularly review implementation A key element of our approach is the sound environment, health and safety of the Environment, Health and Safety operation of Environment, Health and Safety management policies and practices Policy across our businesses to assess Focus Groups at business unit level.
performance and set practical targets Groups are responsible for improving the We recognise that, by providing for improvement: and environment, health and safety performance customers with access to leading products through the development of local standards report as appropriate on the status and services, we can support the drive and staff training.
They are also responsible of the environment, health and safety to improve our environment.
We have also for monitoring environment, health and performance within the businesses.
sought to increase levels of health and safety performance.
safety standards in the workplace.
Implementation of the Policy is the Our businesses carry out detailed responsibility of the management within half-yearly inspections.
Copies of these It is the policy of Inchcape that we will: each Group business, supported and inspection reports and related action plans consider environment, health and monitored by the Group Board.
are forwarded to the Group Risk Manager safety issues within existing and future who reports significant issues to the Common standards are applied to business activities through implementation Groups Risk Committee.
a wide range of environment, health and of appropriate policies and procedures: The Group Risk Manager visited 117 safety matters, and compliance with local of our sites during the year, carrying out monitor and manage the statutory requirements is the minimum environment, health and safety awareness environment, health and safety impacts, standard we will accept.
Where local standards training, attending a number of Focus Group risks and opportunities for our businesses are below international good practice it meetings and performing site inspections.
for the benefit of employees, customers, is our policy to follow UK good practice.
principals and local communities in which we operate: promote awareness of the Environment, Health and Safety Policy amongst Working with our partners employees, customers and principals: In an effort to further promote the environmental achievements of Toyota, our colleagues at Toyota Hellas undertook a series of activities during the launch of the Prius.
These were aimed at creating awareness within the public and media regarding the Prius technology, which seeks to limit the effects of vehicle pollution in urban areas.
The promotion of the Prius as a brand that cares for the environment helped achieve concessions from the Greek Government, which in turn created incentives for the Greek consumer to purchase a Prius instead of a conventional car.
In conjunction with this theme, Toyota Hellas was the major sponsor of three conferences on environmentally friendly vehicles in collaboration with the University of Economics of Athens during 2002.
Monitoring and compliance During the year our Retail businesses across the UK installed a web based management system to enhance the control of their health and safety standards.
This system provides senior management with the latest legislation on environment, health and safety matters and helps them monitor their compliance.
The system is also able to record the health and safety performances of individual sites.
