ANNUAL REPORT 2002 31 Corporate social responsibility managers and analysts, on how GENERATING RESPONSIBLY a company is performing over time International Power is committed to and relative to other companies in their conducting business in a responsible particular sector.
In the UK, Business in manner wherever we operate.
Since the Community BITC is acknowledged our formation in 2000, we have put as a leading index provider.
In 2002 the highest emphasis on environmental, International Power took part in the first health and safety performance, and on BITC Corporate Responsibility Index.
valuing our shareholders, customers, The detailed performance feedback employees, neighbours and suppliers.
provided by BITC will form a key input As an electricity generator, we see to our work in improving our CSR corporate social responsibility CSR as performance in the coming year.
being an integrated approach to managing environmental, health and safety EH&S, We take a risk-based approach to employee, community and ethical issues.
managing our CSR issues and this is consistent with the way in which we We have previously reported on our manage other business issues.
This year EH&S performance for 2000 and 2001. our CSR management team has conducted For 2002, the scope of reporting has been a full analysis of the CSR issues facing broadened to include all of our CSR issues.
This analysis is helping In last years Annual Report, we made to drive our programmes for the future.
a commitment to seek to comply with In order to provide assurance that our guidelines produced by the Association of policies are being properly implemented 1 British Insurers ABI for reporting on CSR we will be further integrating these issues issues.
The decision reflected an increasing into our existing compliance audit interest amongst our key stakeholders to programmes, which already cover be informed of our overall CSR performance the areas of EH&S.
including how we manage the associated The content of this report closely risks and opportunities.
reflects the key issues identified within Stakeholders increasingly judge companies the ABI Guidelines.
These issues are on their social and environmental described in greater detail overleaf.
In recent years a number of our full CSR report please visit our indices have been developed to inform website at www.
com or write to stakeholders, including pension fund the Company Secretary.
1 Association of British Insurers ABI Investing in Social Responsibility October 2001 Left: Blackstone, US Right: Synergen, Australia 32 INTERNATIONAL POWER Our objective is to enhance shareholder value through the viable growth of our business in a socially responsible manner.
introduction of the EU Emissions Trading Environmental protection Scheme, we anticipate there will be an and efficiency increasing impact on our business.
As part Power generation can have a significant of our management process, data on our environmental impact.
In providing most significant environmental impacts, electrical energy to sustain modern including carbon dioxide CO2 emissions, society we recognise we must strive to will continue to be monitored and reported implement environmental management annually as Key Performance Indicators systems at all our assets.
Details of our other emissions can we had four minor reportable incidents be found on our website.
Figure 1 illustrates across all our assets, none of which the emissions of CO2 per kilowatt-hour incurred regulatory action.
We continue resulting from our power generation to seek ways of reducing our environmental activities over the last three years.
impact through improvement in operational practices and the introduction of We strive to make our power stations new technologies.
as efficient as possible and to ensure, through proper maintenance practices, We recognise climate change as being that they are available to operate a key business issue for the future.
As societys attitude to fossil-sourced emissions changes, together with the 1.0 0.88 0.8 0.82 0.79 0.6 0.4 0.2 Figure 1 Total CO emissions from 2 0.0 2000 2001 2002 International Powers power stations kgC02 kWh ANNUAL REPORT 2002 33 Cleaner power stations Blackstone and Bellingham, US A number of our power stations, including Blackstone and Bellingham, are now some of the cleanest in the US.
Our use of Best Available Control Techniques BACT has meant that we now emit some of the lowest levels of oxides of nitrogen NOx in the US.
The power stations use low NOx burners and selective catalytic reduction SCR which allows them to operate within their permit NOx levels of two parts per million.
Employee rights and Health and safety human rights In the last two years several of our It is the policy of International Power to plants have received Royal Society for ensure that all employees or applicants the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA are given equal opportunities regardless of Gold Awards for their health and safety race, colour, religion, sex, marital status, performance, including Hub in Pakistan, sexual orientation, age and physical or Deeside and Rugeley in the UK and Pego mental condition when unrelated to in Portugal.
We value such awards very job performance.
highly and encourage all our facilities to We support the Universal Declaration of seek the same high level of recognition.
Human Rights UNDHR and will apply its As in previous years our standards of principles throughout our workforce.
This health and safety continue to be high and commitment extends to ensuring that the are considered a critical aspect of our health and safety of our employees and operations.
We will continue to review the environment, in which they live and our policies and reporting requirements.
We issued a revised health and safety policy in February 2003 and have introduced additional specific KPIs for 2003.
34 INTERNATIONAL POWER During 2002 International Power Community involvement 700 and its majority-owned subsidiaries We consider the communities in which 600 donated 455,000 to charitable causes.
603 we operate to be one of our most 0.05 500 Companies in which International Power important stakeholder groups and 455 400 has a minority shareholding associates 0.04 we strive to interact both locally and 300 donated a further 215,000. proactively with them.
Our community 200 215 involvement is targeted to improve The Company also supported LEPRA, 194 0.02 0.02 100 economic, environmental and social the Salvation Army, SCOPE, The Queen 0 well being in qualitative and quantitative Elizabeth Trust and Sightsavers.
Our contributions are through Company match-funded money raised Community investment by subsidiaries expressed as a percentage of turnover leadership, by initiating and steering by staff for charitable causes.
Community investment by associates community projects or in the form of expressed as a percentage of turnover Figure 2 illustrates our KPI on spending in donations of time, cash, equipment or community initiatives as a percentage of facilities.
These initiatives include: our annual turnover for 2001 and 2002.
Figure 2 International Power funding free eye camps to combat charitable donations blindness caused by cataracts in the local community around Hub in Pakistan: education through industry schemes at Deeside and Rugeley in the UK: support for para-Olympians annual award ceremony in Midlothian, Texas, US.
Bringing the land back to life Learning for life Pelican Point, Australia Balochistan, Pakistan Pelican Points Ecological Restoration Project has made As part of our educational support programme and in a significant contribution to the greening of 33 hectares conjunction with The Citizens Foundation TCF we are building surrounding the power station.
Up until two years ago, a new primary and secondary school in Balochistan near to our it was a very windswept and lifeless environment as a HUBCO plant.
This province is one of the poorest in Pakistan result of previous industrial use.
Since then, 25 native and has the lowest literacy rate.
plant species have been reintroduced to the site.
The school will be run by TCF and will welcome its first Over 1,000 members of the local community have primary children in April 2004.
The secondary school will participated in the revegetation activities.
The environment open in April 2005 and by 2008 we expect the school surrounding the site is now rapidly being transformed to to have over 500 pupils.
establish primary habitat for the diverse range of wildlife found locally.
Total 000s ANNUAL REPORT 2002 35 Young Environmentalist of the Year Awards 2002 The Young Peoples Trust for the Environment is a charity which aims to encourage young peoples understanding of the environment and the need for sustainability.
Every year the charity holds a competition to raise awareness of the threat to the environment and how we may best preserve our fragile planet.
Entrants are asked to submit a project relating to environmental and nature conservation issues.
This annual competition is open to children aged between 8-16, of employees from six participant companies including International Power.
In 2002, a total of 80 young people entered Bob Holness, Marnie Peterson senior winner, David Crane, Katy Secombe, Rachel Maggiani junior winner, from International Power, with the winners being flown to Danny John Jules.
London with their families to collect their prizes at the awards ceremony in November.
This years award winning projects covered: endangered species the giant panda and the cheetah junior category and European wasps as pests in Australia senior category During 2003, at each asset we will: Ethical behaviour 2003 targets In a climate of fierce competition, We will continue to encourage and set targets for group discussions International Power has a business support all our assets to operate to the about safety issues in the work practice policy, which has been approved principles of, and be certified to, ISO place toolbox talks: by the Board, and which is designed to 14001 the international set targets for periodic inspections of ensure that we operate to the highest environmental management system specific plant areas safety walks: ethical standards.
This policy covers: standard by December 2004. review lost time incident Certification to recognised standards relations with officials and prospective frequency and set an appropriate for health and safety, and quality business partners: reduction target: management systems will also business gifts and hospitality: review first aid treatments and set be encouraged.
conflicts of interest: an appropriate reduction target.
We will seek to understand better proper financial control and accounting.
the ethnic, gender and age dynamics of our workforce.
This policy and the associated procedures help us to ensure that we conduct our We will further integrate CSR issues business in an ethical manner.
Our combined into our existing audit programmes.
compliance audit process gives us assurance that these arrangements are effective.
