36 INTERNATIONAL POWER Employees International Power operates in an This all relies on a foundation of personal purely on the basis of skills and abilities, increasingly complex business environment.
We endeavour to ensure that as matched against the requirements of We place a high priority on the recruitment, all of our staff conduct themselves, the job.
The Group values its reputation retention and training of staff at all levels, internally and externally, in a manner as a caring employer and seeks to attract whether employed by us directly or by of the highest integrity.
and retain high calibre employees.
any of our subsidiaries or associates.
In Opportunities for training are given a Clear communication links with all particular, we operate an incentivehigh priority to ensure that all individuals staff are critical to enhance business and weighted compensation scheme which can contribute to their own career commercial awareness throughout our we believe rewards and develops staff development.
Corporate publications, the on the following bases: itself to the fair treatment of people International Power website and intranet, with disabilities in relation to their Achievement of tangible personal employee awareness briefings from recruitment, training and development.
objectives: annual targets are set executive management and team briefings for all personnel, calibrated at levels are all used to promote communications Employee share plans designed to ensure that individuals are and an understanding of the development International Power has in place a able to contribute to the attainment and application of policies and strategy.
number of share-based plans under which of these objectives.
We use the latest technology to aid rapid employees of the Group and its subsidiary communication with all staff around the Professional and educational companies may acquire Ordinary Shares in world, as well as regularly holding advancement: we promote and International Power plc.
These plans form Global Employee Forums.
facilitate mid-career training, internal an integral part of the Groups strategy to and external seminars, personal provide appropriate reward and retention Equal opportunities development plans and other educational strategies for employees, to align employee The Group is committed to equal programmes.
In addition, we encourage and shareholder interests through incentive opportunities, both from a sense of social our staff to participate actively in their targets based on clear operational and responsibility and also because it makes personal development and in relevant financial criteria and to recruit, motivate sound business sense to benefit from the professional organisations.
wide-ranging knowledge and experience Leadership: we expect our staff to of individuals in all sectors of society.
This exercise leadership in their dealings commitment to equal opportunities with colleagues, partners, customers means that decisions to appoint, reward, and other contract parties.
train, develop and promote are taken Left: Shuweihat SI, UAE Right: EOP, Czech Republic ANNUAL REPORT 2002 37 During Steves time in Australia, the business has developed into the leading independently owned generator.
In the summer, he commences a new role as Regional Director, Europe, focusing on further development in this region.
Steve Riley Melbourne, Australia 38 INTERNATIONAL POWER These employee share plans are: All of the listed plans are currently in The vesting of any awards made under operation, except the Share Incentive Plan.
each of the Demerger Long-Term The Demerger Long-Term Incentive In addition to these, during 2002 the Incentive Plan and the 2002 Performance Plan a one-off plan established at Company also operated the Restricted Share Plan and the ability to exercise Demerger which is open to Executive Share Plan which was established at options granted under the Approved and Directors and a small number of demerger for the purposes of Peter Gillers Unapproved Executive Share Option Plans senior managers.
This Plan and the Global Executive Share Option The 2002 Performance Share Plan ceased operation on 31 December 2002.
Plan are all subject to the satisfaction open to Executive Directors and a of performance conditions.
Information Executive Share Options have been small number of senior managers.
on the relevant performance conditions granted to employees in four countries The International Power Approved for each award or option grant under outside the UK and the Global Sharesave Executive Share Option Scheme each plan is given in the Directors Plan is now in operation in three countries a discretionary plan open to UK remuneration report.
The exercise of outside the UK.
As the Group continues to resident employees.
options under the Sharesave Plan and grow and employee numbers continue to the release of shares under the Demerger The International Power increase, we anticipate that the extension Share Plan, being all-employee plans, are Unapproved Executive Share of share plans to overseas jurisdictions not subject to any performance condition.
Option Plan a discretionary plan will continue apace.
The vesting of awards made under the for UK-based employees.
Whilst Executive Directors are eligible Restricted Share Plan have not been subject The Global Executive Share Option to participate in all of the listed Plans, to any performance condition.
Plan a discretionary plan for executives the currently serving Executive Directors resident outside of the UK.
only participate in the Demerger Long-Term Incentive Plan, the 2002 The International Power Sharesave Performance Share Plan, the Approved Plan open to all UK resident and Unapproved Executive Share Option employees.
Plans and the International Power The International Power Global Sharesave Plan.
Sharesave Plan open to employees in certain jurisdictions outside of the UK.
The Share Incentive Plan open to all UK resident employees.
The Demerger Share Plan open to UK employees employed by the Group as at Demerger.
