have enabled Amersham to assess its CSR strengths, identify good practice and indicate areas for improvement.
A CSR Steering Committee reporting to the Chief Executive, who has taken Board level responsibility for CSR, has now been established.
The Committee will co-ordinate the application of best practice throughout the company, prioritise areas where we may need to improve or amend our existing procedures and ensure that the company integrates CSR appropriately throughout its operations.
This work will be conducted progressively and will focus on areas that impact upon our people, our customers, the communities around our facilities and our investors.
We intend to report on our progress in managing CSR in summer 2004.
During 2002 Amersham maintained its listing in the FTSE4 Good ethical trading index and was pleased to gain entry for the first time to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, widely regarded as a leading indicator of good performance by ethical Social responsibility and socially responsible investors.
Amersham also completed and environment its submission for Business in the Communitys new Social Responsibility Index, the first major attempt to provide Social responsibility a benchmarking index for companies application of CSR, During 2002 the profile and importance of corporate social published in March 2003.
Amersham hopes that indices such responsibility CSR continued to grow, particularly in Europe as these will provide sufficient information to guide investment and the USA.
Well-publicised cases of corporate financial decisions in this rapidly expanding investment sector.
mismanagement and fraud have threatened to undermine investors and the publics confidence in business.
Amersham Corporately and at individual sites, Amersham continued to is alert to the threat such a climate of distrust might pose demonstrate social responsibility, especially in our core areas to its long-term success and has acted to ensure that its of science and education.
The successful Genes, Medicine and reputation as a responsible and socially aware company is Society series at the Royal Institution, London was concluded maintained and protected.
We describe elsewhere in this in November following seven topical and well-received lectures.
Annual Report our approach to Corporate Governance and Similar lectures on biomedical science were held at the the manner in which the company is managed.
We have also Rikshospital in Oslo, Norway.
Amershams Board approved a worked to provide greater transparency on aspects of our new Charity and Community Engagement Policy that will be operations, and focused on the integration of the principles implemented at our sites throughout 2003 and beyond.
The of CSR throughout our business.
policy determines our areas of focus in support for good causes and encourages local sites to harness the resource and Enhanced transparency was demonstrated with the publication expertise of their staff in the local community.
As an example, in July of our first full Environment and Social Report.
This is the SET to Help school support programme in place at our sites available both in print and on our website and provides in the Amersham UK area continued to expand and now information on our performance in managing health, safety involves some 40 schools.
We have also developed formal links and the environment during 2000-2001, as well as commentary with a local school specialising in the teaching of science to on a range of employment, community and social issues help extend the schools outreach into other schools and the including our positions on animal testing and stem cell research.
Education of the general public and students A web based update to our Environment and Social Report was also the principal goal of a week-long festival of science providing key data and information from 2002 will be in Oslo where our staff arranged lectures and educational published in summer 2003. programmes and took science onto the streets of Oslo as part of a major public exhibition.
In Piscataway New Jersey, USA The report also provided a platform for publication of our staff supported a scholar programme at the local university, Amershams Code of Business Conduct, which applies to all providing time, equipment and reagents.
of our employees worldwide and sets out the standard of business behaviour that the company expects of its people.
Throughout the world, Amershams staff continued to help In August, the publication of our interim results was also used good causes and those less fortunate.
In the UK, two hospices to provide further information to stakeholders on our progress and a treatment centre for children with cerebral palsy were in managing the challenges posed by CSR.
chosen by staff for their fundraising activities, which raised almost 50,000.
Donations of money, gifts in kind and staff In the second half of 2002, Amersham conducted a review of time in the UK were valued at over 330,000, enabling the its performance in the key areas embraced by CSR.
Specialist company to maintain its membership of Business in the consultants were engaged to interview staff and key external Communitys PerCent Club in the UK.
In Norway, community audiences, including customers, ethical and mainstream engagement was also improved with a financial contribution financial investors and non-governmental organisations.
excluding staff time of 140,000 including a donation of The assessment covered a wide range of issues including approximately 30,000 to help the poor and homeless.
In the Amershams management of our people, environment, health USA, our Arlington Heights, Illinois facility participated in food and safety, risk and corporate governance as well as our and toy collections for underprivileged families, local sports, engagement with customers and suppliers, the communities education and science programmes and also made a $14,000 around our facilities and other external stakeholders.
The results donation to support service men and women separated from 34 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 their families.
Over a third of our staff in Princeton, New Jersey, conservation measures implemented at Arlington Heights participated in the Race for the Cure for cancer research, raising resulted in a 17 per cent increase in the production of their $12,500.
Amersham Health sponsored the Fathers Day Race most energy intensive product with only a 1.2 per cent in Central Park, New York, to raise awareness of prostate increase in overall energy use.
Amersham Biosciences continued to sponsor Science magazines Young Scientist Prize competition.
Two regional Amersham Biosciences sales and commercial staff in Freiburg winners were awarded in each of Japan, Europe and the USA Germany participated for the ninth year in their annual plus one from Israel, all for work in the molecular biology field.
purchase and planting of 5,000 trees in the Ester mountains The grand prize winner, who received a $25,000 grant and in Bavaria.
In Japan, the company was pleased to support the publication of his essay in Science, was Jared Rutter, for his World Wildlife Fund in its programmes for nature and habitat work describing the cellular sensing mechanism that responds conservation.
Amersham continues to support the global to environmental factors and affects the bodys daily rhythm.
conservation research organisation, Earthwatch, and is now part-funding six study fellowships on global projects in 2003.
Environment Through Earthwatchs facilitation, the company is also engaged Our Environment and Social Report provides data on emissions in an environmentally friendly land management plan for 60 to the environment, energy and water use, waste generation, acres of farmland it owns adjacent to the Grove Centre.
The accidents at work, exposure to radiation and a number of other plan will restore natural flora and fauna to the area and parameters of particular significance to our operations.
report, together with our broader work on CSR, has identified areas, such as the management of our supply chain and Major public consultations were conducted during the year verification of our data, that we need to carefully examine by the UKs Environment Agency as part of the process of and consider whether improvements can be made.
determining new authorisations for emissions from the Grove and Maynard Centres.
At both sites, Amershams applications Overall, 2002 was a year of further improvement in our health, provide for significant reductions in discharges to the safety and environmental performance and we are pleased to environment.
The company participated fully in the extensive report that no prosecutions were brought against the company public consultation process, speaking at meetings, making in these areas during the year.
The new wastewater treatment presentations to local interest groups, and distributing facility at our Arlington Heights USA facility gained the 16th explanatory literature to local residents and the media.
Annual Illinois Governors Pollution Prevention Award given to companies that demonstrate outstanding efforts in We welcome greater public scrutiny of our operations.
A similar liquid effluent plant has involvement improves the understanding of our business and now been installed at the Maynard Centre Cardiff, UK where, allows us to demonstrate the ways we work to protect health, in addition, good progress was made in the designs for the safety and the environment.
Our open door policy for local recovery and recycling technology that will capture a high communities has resulted in visits to our facilities by the public 14 proportion of the facilitys waste carbon and tritium.
Effluent in the UK, Germany, Norway, the USA and Ireland.
We view treatment improvements were also made at Shanghai China.
this approach to our operations as an integral part of our Our Lindesnes Norway contrast media production site gained commitment to CSR and we will continue to explore new ISO 14001 Environmental Management accreditation and our opportunities to improve our stakeholders understanding Nihon Medi-Physics joint venture facility in Chiba Japan of our work and our environmental impact.
successfully passed the first inspection review of its ISO 14001 certification.
The Grove Centre UK and Shanghai both received safety commendations from external organisations and a new risk assessment, management and training system implemented at our production plant in Cork Ireland resulted in a significant reduction in lost time accidents.
Amershams commitment to improved resource management also continued with increases in the amounts of material Sir William Castell Chief Executive recovered and recycled at many locations.
Solvent recovery at Lindesnes Norway, Staffanstorp Sweden and Uppsala Sweden totalled over 30,000 tonnes and the Swedish sites also supplied more than 1,000 tonnes of used solvents and fructose for reuse by other industries.
As part of the companys return chain project that takes back unused or returned products for recycling, Lindesnes processed 33 tonnes of material for iodine recovery, and recovered 26 tonnes of X-ray contrast media bulk substance.
A new office paper recycling scheme at Amersham Place Head Office, the Grove Centre and other sites in the Amersham area, recovered over 92 tonnes of paper and card, enabling the recycling contractor to donate 12 trees to the local community.
The Gloucester UK site reduced its generation of waste glass vials by 37 per cent and Piscataway and Sunnyvale in the USA both benefited from enhanced recycling programmes.
While the diversion of this material from disposal is welcome, the focus is now turning to reducing the volume of waste generated in the first place.
