Quality, Health, Safety and the Environment Employees from Wood Group joined other Aberdeen-based oil and gas companies to raise funds to send seventeen pipeband members to New York to participate in The Tunes of Glory march on April 6, National Tartan Day.
Funds raised from the event went to Gilda's Club Worldwide and Marie Curie Cancer Care.
The safety and well-being of our employees, and care of our environment, are at the heart of our business principles.
Continuing to achieve high standards of performance in for our customers.
Our improvement initiatives are often relation to quality, health, safety, environmental and ethical implemented in conjunction with customers and many of our principal contracts contain HS&E goals as part of their matters plays an integral role in the sustainability of our performance and reward mechanisms.
long-term reputation and success and for many years the Board has ranked achievement of these goals equally with Group Director, Bill Edgar, is responsible for overseeing the achievement of our other major business objectives.
HS&E and throughout the group each business has its own organisational structure and resources focused on HS&E In 2002 we updated certain policies and procedures and matters.
Our companies report quarterly on their organised a series of programs, initiatives and awards performance and a summary report is submitted to the throughout our operating companies to emphasise the Group Board.
Groups commitment to continuous improvement in these areas.
We are in the process of reviewing a number of Our 2002 HS&E Conferences held in Houston and changes aimed at creating a wider, more target based, Aberdeen enabled over 120 of the Groups senior reporting format.
In the meantime this report outlines the management to review the years HS&E performance and framework of our current programs and examples of contribute to next years improvement program.
progress made in each area during 2002.
Employees, in all parts of the Group, are also encouraged to put forward suggestions about HS&E matters and many Health & Safety and the Environment HS&E of these suggestions are adopted into business operations to help enhance performance.
Our current Group HS&E policies were adopted in December 1999 and are applied across the Group through We incentivise improved HS&E company and individual locally adapted policies, procedures and management performance in a number of ways including target setting, systems.
HS&E performance is also a key area of focus training programs and annual or project specific HS&E John Wood Group PLC 17 Quality, Health, Safety and the Environment Kittiwakes nesting on an offshore Staff at SIMCO in Venezuela have been Acclaimed Aberdeen-based youth project, installation.
Wood Group Engineering sharing safety training with children and Give Kids a Chance, celebrated its fifth North Sea Ltd has been officially families of employees at a special safety birthday with a 3000 cheque from Wood recognised as the first contractor to join day event.
From left to right: Grampian Chief the ranks of the major oil & gas producers Constable Andrew Brown, Michelle supporting the North Sea Bird Club.
We also recognise excellent Overall safety performance improved throughout 2002 with performance through a number of initiatives, including the Total Recordable Case Frequencies reducing by 22%, Chairmans HS&E Awards, which were this year won by when compared with 2001.
This improvement is against Rolls Wood Group, Gas Plant Services, Fuel Systems, an underlying increase of 35% in the Groups annual manMustang Engineering, Pressure Control and Wood Group hours worked.
Delivery of this performance improvement is reliant upon the commitment and efforts of all of our employees.
In Health addition all of our companies undertook special safety related projects, with, for example, Mustang Engineering Our policy is to promote the occupational health and welfare of our staff worldwide.
We aim to ensure training over 1,300 employees in safety awareness and Wood Group Logging Services creating a behavioural workplace conditions are free from health risks to safety video for general use.
employees, including harm from hazardous substances, noise, vibration and stress, with, for example, Sulzer Wood The Groups sustained commitment to health and safety running a stress awareness program as part of the was also recognised in 2002 with the Royal Society for the European week for Health & Safety at Work.
We also Prevention of Accidents Presidents Award, which the promote involvement in health campaigns, such as 2002s Group won following achievement of its 10th consecutive healthy hearts & healthy eating campaigns and programs annual Gold Award.
Five Group companies also received to provide flu jabs for employees.
Safety Environment It is a stated aim of the Group to achieve the highest Our policy is to minimise the effects of discharges, practicable standards of safety for employees and those emissions and waste disposal from our operating facilities, affected by our activities including contractors, customers with, for example, a number of our companies in 2002 and members of the public.
Good safety practices are a eliminating or reducing the use of cleaning solvents in their combination of people, process and place and our focus is workshops.
on the adoption, implementation and communication of Group standards and expectations by our businesses and We also aim to control working practices, which may be the contractors who work for us.
Our environmental 18 John Wood Group PLC The Gas Plant Services GPS project within Wood Group Engineering North Sea Ltd won the Chairman's Safety Project Award for an outstanding safety record with nearly eight years without a Lost Work Case LWC.
GPS was commended for fully integrating safety systems with Shell, their client, and transferring best practice effectively between the two operating sites at St Fergus and Fife NGL Mossmorran.
management program follows a system which is based on and exceed customer expectations, in part through the the international standard ISO 14001: 1996, with some UK adoption of the internationally recognised standard ISO based Group companies also having achieved or currently 9001 which emphasises process management and a seeking certification to this standard.
structured approach to continuous improvement.
We seek to maximise the environmental sustainability of Employees our businesses by reducing the consumption of natural resources and by increasing energy efficiency, and during The Group places a strong emphasis on employee 2002 introduced monitoring and improvement programs at communication and involvement.
Corporate a number of our key facilities.
communication departments in Aberdeen and Houston work closely with employees around the world to inform Ethical Conduct of Our Businesses them of the Groups successes and to receive feedback from them.
A quarterly employee magazine called Wood The Groups Ethics Policy sets minimum standards of News is published in-house and circulated to all conduct, promotes best practice and provides resolution employees.
Many Group companies also produce procedures when questions arise.
The policy is available to newsletters to inform employees specifically about their employees on the Groups web based portal and is companies.
An employee review is produced annually and distributed to all our businesses.
Group Director, Alan briefings are held on a regular basis to update employees Semple, chairs our Business Ethics Committee, which on the Groups progress.
Senior managers participate in monitors the operation of the Policy and, in conjunction roadshows to discuss progress and talk with employees with our Board, works to promote compliance and resolve about their part of the business.
Employees are able to report any concerns to their business management or anonymously to the Business Using sophisticated internet based technology, the Group Ethics Committee.
Portal increasingly promotes integrated global communication and data management to provide the Quality Groups businesses with a competitive edge.
By capturing knowledge, experience and ideas from employees across We recognise that quality of service is the key to the world the Group has built up virtual communities whilst increasing growth in customer base and client satisfaction.
To achieve this the Group strives to improve performance streamlining business processes and reducing duplication.
John Wood Group PLC 19 Our policy is to minimise the effects of discharges, emmissions and waste disposal, and to control working practices that may be harmful to the environment.
Staff at Oman-based Wood Group ESP helped to save more than 500 turtles by participating in a major environmental project to collect field data on green turtles nesting along the beaches in Oman.
20 John Wood Group PLC Quality, Health, Safety and the Environment During the year we held a series of safety Jock Campbell, Sandhaven Harbour Mustang Engineering employees take part seminars concentrating on safety Chairman left and John Corbett, Resident in the 2002 MS 150 Bike Tour, a two-day behaviour, culture and teambuilding with Engineer, St Fergus.
Wood Group donated cycling fundraiser organized by the National onshore and offshore personnel.
1000 to funds for restoring the historic Multiple Sclerosis Society.
The largest in harbour in North East Scotland.
North America, this Bike Tour attracts more than 9,000 cyclists and 2,000 volunteers.
It is the policy of the Group to afford disabled persons full Engineering and its employees undertake a vast range and fair consideration for employment and subsequent of individual, group and company charitable projects in training, career development and promotion on the basis of aid of, among others, muscular dystrophy and adult and their aptitudes and abilities.
Where the disability occurs childrens cancer care and research.
during the period of employment every effort is made to Objectives, Targets continue to provide suitable employment with the provision of appropriate training.
and Continuous Improvement The Group also endorses and supports the principles of With our broad geographic coverage and mix of equal employment opportunity.
It is the policy of the businesses, the focus of our continuous improvement Group to provide equal employment opportunities to all program is the communication of Group objectives, as appropriately qualified individuals and to ensure that all set by the Board, and their implementation by our employment decisions are made on a non-discriminatory businesses through the adoption of policies and basis.
procedures and the annual establishment of The Group invests in training programs across its appropriate individual performance targets for our employee groups and, in particular, operates a very businesses and relevant managers.
These targets are successful graduate training program to help develop the generally linked to company and individual reward next generation of engineers.
programs by way of bonus performance objectives.
Communities in Which We Operate Audit and Verification Across the Group our companies and employees are Audit and verification of our performance currently involved in many different activities aimed at enhancing the involves a combination of internal resources, including communities in which we operate, with, for example, Internal Audit, Quality, HS&E and Legal and external companies in Venezuela and Aberdeen running community reviews from certifying authorities, regulatory bodies focused safety programs for schoolchildren and families.
Our customers also The Group also contributes to a number of charities and carry out extensive audits and reviews on an ongoing Group employees participate on a local basis in a variety of other fund raising activities.
