H R Jenkins CBE Group Managing Director, age 59: joined Johnson Matthey Age 68: appointed a non-executive director in January in 1960: appointed Division Director, Metals Division in 1984 1996 when he retired as a director of The Prudential and Director Precious Metals Marketing in 1988.
Appointed Corporation plc where he was Chairman and Chief Executive Executive Director, Precious Metals in November 1990, and of Prudential Portfolio Managers.
Latterly Chairman of Thorn Managing Director, Precious Metals and Catalytic Systems in plc and currently Chairman of Development Securities Plc and March 1994.
In September 1995, he was appointed Managing a non-executive director of EMI plc.
He chaired the property Director of the enlarged Precious Metals Division.
Appointed advisory group at the Department of the Environment from Group Managing Director in January 1999 and additionally 1990 to 1999.
Previously Group Investment Director, Allied responsible for Colours and Coatings from July 1999.
Dunbar Assurance and Director General of Investments, Chairman of the Trustees of Johnson Mattheys UK pension British Coal Pensions.
Currently a non-executive director of Wagon plc.
D W Morgan MA, ACA Age 59: appointed a non-executive director in April 1999.
Executive Director, Group Corporate Development, age 44: Currently, a non-executive director of Travis Perkins plc.
joined Johnson Matthey in 1988 as a Division Finance Director.
Previously, Chief Executive of Castrol International and a main Has had responsibility for Finance and Planning in each of the board director of Burmah Castrol plc.
A, M, N groups divisions and was appointed Director of Corporate Development in 1995.
Appointed an Executive Director in August 1999.
Responsible for the groups Corporate Committees of the Board Development activities and Legal and Secretarial affairs.
A Audit Committee Currently a non-executive director of RiverSoft plc.
M Management Development and Remuneration Committee N Nomination Committee 9.
C D Mackay MBA, MA Age 62: appointed a non-executive director in January 1999.
Currently Chairman of the Eurotunnel Group and of TDG plc, Deputy Chairman of Thistle Hotels plc, and a member of the board of INSEAD.
Previously, Group Chief Executive and Deputy Chairman of Inchcape plc and has also served on a number of boards including those of HSBC Holdings plc, British Airways plc and Gucci Group NV.
A, M, N Other Senior Management Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Catalysts & Chemicals Pharmaceutical Materials P N Hawker Division Director, Catalytic Systems F K Sheffy Division Director S M Christley Division Finance Director, Catalytic Systems A J Caruso Division Finance Director P C Framp Managing Director, Autocatalyst, European Region D S Mercer Managing Director, Macfarlan Smith J B Fowler President, Autocatalyst, North America S A Zahr General Manager, Pharm-Eco Laboratories L C Pentz Division Director, Chemicals G P Otterman Division Finance Director, Chemicals Corporate J C Frost Director, Fuel Cells G J Coates Group Treasurer S Farrant Company Secretary and Senior Legal Adviser Precious Metals I D Godwin Group Corporate Communications Manager W F Sandford Division Director M J L Henkel Group Taxation Manager B M OConnell Division Finance Director B A Murrer Director, Technology Centre M Bedford Director, Precious Metals Marketing I F Stephenson Director, Group Systems and Environment, Health and M C F Steel Market Research and Planning Director, Safety, Human Resources and Pensions Precious Metals Marketing A M Myers Director, Noble Metals B J Doherty Managing Director, Australasia J D McKelvie Vice President, Gold and Silver, North America R J Tait General Manager, Gold and Silver, UK Colours & Coatings C M Hood Division Director V Ros Managing Director, Structural Ceramics J Murkens Managing Director, Glass S P Murphy Managing Director, Speciality Coatings T R Woolrych Finance and Planning Director Employment Policies Equal Opportunities Training and Development of People Policy It is the policy of the group to recruit, train and manage Ensure highest standards in the recruitment of staff.
employees who meet the requirements of the job, regardless of Assess training needs in the light of job requirements.
gender, ethnic origin, age or religion.
Employees who become Ensure relevance of training and link with business goals.
disabled and disabled people are offered employment consistent Employ and evaluate effective and efficient training methods.
Promote from within, from high potential pools of talent.
Training and Development of People Provide development opportunities to meet employees potential Johnson Matthey recognises the importance of recruiting the and aspirations.
very highest calibre of employees, training them to achieve challenging standards in the performance of their jobs, and Employee Communications developing them to their maximum potential.
Johnson Matthey recognises the importance of effective Our policy requires careful review of organisation structure, employee communications.
Information and comment is exchanged succession and the development of high potential people to meet our with employees through the companys in-house magazine, regular business goals.
The Management Development and Remuneration news bulletins, presentations to staff and team briefings.
Committee of the board takes a special interest in ensuring compliance with the Training and Development of People Policy.
