38 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Johnston Press Annual Report & Accounts 2002 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Business Ethics The Board of Johnston Press has made a clear commitment to operating all of the Group's business activities to the highest standards of business ethics and integrity.
These principles are not only contained in the Group's Corporate Social Responsibility Statement but it is also policy to include these in employment contracts.
The Group has the absolute objective of always acting as a fair and reasonable employer.
We also acknowledge and are keenly aware of our responsibilities to the many communities we serve, our customers, suppliers, shareholders, and to the environment.
Because of our key role in the community, a separate section has been added to this report detailing some of the related activities in which the Group's companies are involved.
Board Responsibility The Board has delegated the day-to-day responsibility for all matters related to Corporate Social Responsibility and social issues to the Executive Directors.
They are assisted by the Company Secretary who is the first point of contact for the majority of these issues.
Whilst recognising that the practice of recruitment, employment and training are the responsibility of all managers within the Group, responsibility for formulating, updating and ensuring adherence to Group policies has been delegated to the Director of Human Resources who is responsible to the Chief Executive.
Relationships with customers, suppliers and the community are determined at local level by the managing director of each operating company and is subject to review by the Director of Operations who is responsible to the Chief Executive.
As part of the main Board's review of Corporate Governance at the January 2003 meeting, the Directors also reviewed the Corporate Social Responsibility Policy.
Employee Involvement It is the policy of the Group to encourage and develop all members of staff to realise their maximum potential.
The Group's policy is that wherever possible all jobs are advertised on the Group Intranet and internal notice boards so that, wherever possible, vacancies are filled from within the Group and adequate opportunities for internal promotion are created.
The Board is committed to a systematic training policy.
The Group supports the principle of equal opportunities in employment and opposes all forms of unlawful or unfair discrimination on the grounds of race, nationality, religion, ethnic or national origin, sexual orientation, gender or gender reassignment, marital status or disability.
It is also the policy of the Group, where possible, to give sympathetic consideration to disabled persons in their application for employment within the Group, and to protect the interests of existing members of staff who are disabled.
The Group is committed to a comprehensive training and development programme creating the opportunity for employees to maintain and improve their performance and to develop their potential to a maximum level of attainment.
This includes a management development programme to identify and coach individuals who may have the potential to lead the future direction of the Group.
In this way, staff will make their best possible contribution to the organisation's success.
Community Involvement Local newspapers are the heart of their communities, reflecting on issues of concern and playing a positive and leading role in bringing people together.
Throughout our publishing areas, Johnston Press titles are actively and deeply involved with their local communities.
Our newspapers have initiated and supported numerous worthy causes, often helping to raise considerable sums of money.
Amongst the most important are health-related initiatives which have included many to safeguard or improve local facilities such as the Fife Free Press campaign to build a Maggies Cancer Care Centre in Kirkcaldy.
Heartrending stories, especially those involving children such as Caitlin Stewart from Duns who is suffering from the rare Leighs Disease, a degenerative brain disorder, have galvanised our newspapers to rally local support.
This has helped to fund the costs of treatment abroad where this is the only option, or to find bonemarrow donors for leukaemia suffers like Jacqueline Denholm in Leamington.
XX 39 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Johnston Press Annual Report & Accounts 2002 We support numerous charitable organisations.
For example, Isle of Man Newspapers raised 60,000 in the month of October for the Beat Breast Cancer appeal.
Indeed, where charity appeals are concerned, it is Group policy to apply a special discount to related advertisements thereby helping charities to minimise their costs.
The Group also has a centrally managed charitable donations budget and distributed 130,000 in the year, mainly to support causes in our numerous publishing areas.
When coupled with the direct activities of our newspaper companies, the total amount raised was many times that figure.
We play a leading role in addressing areas of deprivation.
The Burnley Express Christmas toy appeal was typical of many such initiatives around the country to provide needy children with some seasonal cheer.
The Shields Gazette Jobs Fair organised in conjunction with the South Tyneside Council was aimed at helping hundreds of unemployed into a new career.
Our newspapers also run initiatives to improve reading skills, such as the Yorkshire Posts involvement in the Right to Read programme and the Reading Passport scheme launched by the Gainsborough Standard.
A number of our companies play an active part in local schools through the Newspapers in Education programme, in some cases such as in Portsmouth with a dedicated in-house resource to sustain the initiative over the long term.
Many of our titles such as the Dewsbury Reporter also run campaigns to champion children who have excelled or who have overcome adversity.
Many important national initiatives have local roots.
A tragic shooting incident which left a young girl blind in one eye led to the Sunderland Echo campaign for a law to curb the dangerous use of airguns.
The Government office for the North East contacted the Echo before the Home Secretarys recent proposals were announced.
The Yorkshire Post, as a leading campaigning newspaper, investigated and championed a number of such initiatives during the year.
These included the need for clearer labelling on hospital drugs, support for the thousands of hidden victims of asbestos poisoning and a much praised campaign for a reduction in the burden of red tape on businesses.
Road safety in its widest sense is a matter of great concern throughout our readership, often following tragic accidents and fatalities.
Demands for road improvements have been widespread and have resulted in positive results such as the West Sussex County Times successful campaign for the imposition of speed limits and the installation of crash barriers on the A24.
Drink driving campaigns have also featured strongly, none more so than that in the Luton Herald and Post which played an important part in the introduction of Duggans Law, named after the local MP and which enables police to test for drink or drugs without consent for evidence purposes.
Harsher sentencing of those convicted for dangerous driving was another popular theme such as that pursued by the Wigan Observer following the tragic death of a mother of two outside a local pub.
The Matlock Mercurys Ride-safe campaign was aimed at the many motor-cyclists who converge on the town during the summer months and The Malton & Pickering Mercury campaigned vigorously against a parking scheme which was perceived as damaging to the local community and high street trade.
Many of our newspapers have initiated and led efforts to accentuate and applaud what is good about their local areas and to encourage positive improvement.
In Portsmouth, The News has made a real difference with its We Can Do It campaign.
A gala awards night recognised the unsung heroes who have contributed something extra to their local community.
It has also provided a platform for taking action to tackle the scourges of graffiti, litter and fly tipping.
In Falkirk, Sheffield and Northampton to name but a few, similar campaigns have been pursued, all aimed at improving the quality of life and building peoples pride in their local communities.
Throughout our publishing areas, our newspapers have worked tirelessly in support of their local communities with a myriad of campaigns.
In Lewes, the Sussex Express has been a leading voice fighting for improved flood defences.
The Evening Telegraph in Peterborough has spearheaded the appeal to restore the Cathedral after it was damaged in an arson attack.
We have championed community concerns about vandalism in Lancaster, school bullying in Hemel Hempstead, elderly care in Hastings, child abuse in Sheffield, waste recycling in Milton Keynes, drugs in Chesterfield, regeneration plans for Blackpool, park safety in Preston, a school merger in Crawley, greenbelt developments in Haywards Heath, rail services in Ashington and policing in Ilkeston.
In many of these cases, as in so many others, our newspapers have succeeded in winning critical improvements or concessions for their local communities.
Local newspapers are a powerful force for good.
Through our titles across the United Kingdom, Johnston Press has been instrumental in numerous good works and has played a leading part in helping to improve the quality of life in the huge number of local communities which we serve.
This role is central to the purpose of local newspapers and one to which the Group is totally committed.
40 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Johnston Press Annual Report & Accounts 2002 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Continued Customer Services It is Group policy to provide the highest standard of service to all of our customers.
Each operating company has staff appointed to respond to all customer enquiries.
There are strict procedures for resolving customer complaints or queries regarding service and these are carefully monitored by management.
Local management in each operation is responsible for ensuring that their companies and all their employees comply with the requirements of all customer and competition-related legislation.
It is Group policy that the interests of Johnston Press only ever require strict compliance and no one in the Group has authority to give any order or direction that would result in a violation of this policy.
Environmental Policy The Group acknowledges that the protection of the environment is one of our key corporate responsibilities.
We aim to comply with all relevant regulations and see the identification of and then the management and control of environmental risks as being an implicit requirement for adherence to the Corporate Governance Combined Code.
As reported last year, environment risk consultants conducted a strategic environmental review based on a representative sample of sites.
This resulted in the development of a process to identify the risks, their reporting in an Environmental Impacts Register and an ongoing process for management and control.
The risk consultants also identified that the only significant environmental risks lay within the printing operations of the Group.
By the end of 2002 the processes above and the environmental impacts registers were in place at every print division operation.
On an ongoing basis the management and control of these risks will be monitored by a programme of audit visits by independent environmental risk consultants.
During 2003 the Group's consumption of electricity, gas and water is projected to be 147 million kWh, 28 million kWh, and 3 91 million m respectively.
Although this might appear to represent an increase over prior period numbers this is not the case when allowing for the acquisition of RIM and the investment in new presses which permits work previously printed by third parties to be printed in-house.
The new press equipment which was installed in 2002 is more energy efficient than the equipment it replaced and energy monitoring and control equipment has also been installed.
This has enabled the Group to register with the British Printing Industries Federation and to claim rebates against the Climate Change Levy Tax as well as receiving an element of accelerated capital allowances against the investments made.
The Group also has a rolling programme of independent audit visits covering property and health and safety risks.
These visits are targeted on the locations which have the highest risk profile along with a sample of other sites.
Detailed reports and recommendations are produced after each visit and the implementation of these is monitored by management.
Newsprint Part of the industry's agreement with the Government, through the Newspaper Society is a commitment to increase the target for recycled newsprint.
In 2001, the most recently available figures, recycled paper made up 63.5% 2000 - 60.3% of the raw material used in the production of the UK's newspapers.
The target is for this percentage to continue to increase.
Waste Packaging The Group adheres to the requirements of the Producer Responsibility Obligations Packaging Waste Regulations 1997.
Strict procedures have been established to ensure compliance and the managing director of every company is responsible for ensuring that these are followed.
Each company is responsible for keeping accurate records of tonnages used of each type of packaging, split between Group and contract titles.
Companies with no printing facility are only required to account for any repackaging done prior to delivery to the customer.
Systems are in operation, including an independent audit, to ensure that verification takes place on a random basis each year.
Shareholders Members of the Board executive and non-executive have met a number of shareholders during the past year to discuss Corporate Social Responsibility matters and to address any questions raised by shareholders.
