Corporate social responsibility Hilton Group operates to high standards of performance and advocates socially and environmentally responsible business practice.
Our aim is to bring a positive benefit to the societies in which we operate, through high quality services, economic growth, environmental protection, community involvement and, of course, employment.
Our People Environment and Sustainability Communities and Charities We rely on our employees to provide the Hilton Group is committed to protecting the Good relationships with local communities high quality of service our guests and environment and improving its environmental provide invaluable benets to our business.
In return we work hard to performance.
We encourage all our employees to be involved look after our people.
Our aim is to maximise in their communities.
and develop the skills of our staff, provide We are included in FTSE4Good and are opportunities for personal development and an active participant in the UK Business Hilton in the Community Foundation is the achieve high rates of employee satisfaction.
in the Environments Index of Corporate charitable trust set up and wholly supported Environmental Engagement.
We also sponsor by Hilton International and its employees.
Through its Esprit programme, Hilton the International Hotels Environment The foundation was launched in the UK in International aims to make everyone feel Initiative IHEI.
2000 and is now being rolled-out worldwide.
valued within their working environment.
Its objectives are to maintain high standards We are continually working to incorporate In 2002, the Ladbrokes charity of the year in human resources management and to environmental management into everyday has been the NSPCC.
In addition, Ladbrokes create a business culture in which everyone business practice, measuring our performance continues to support the Gambling Industry can grow and develop their careers.
To support and setting improvement targets for all our Charitable Trust inc Gamcare, assisting both this commitment, Hilton University has been business units.
To date, we have focused on individuals and their families who have issues launched worldwide, covering a range of skills minimising the direct impact of our operations related to problem gambling.
for the hotel industry, from operational and and in particular reducing the amount of technical to finance and general management.
energy and water we use and waste we Our employees throughout the world have produce.
been involved in fundraising and charitable Ladbrokes has been Investors in People activities and during 2002 have raised accredited since 1998 and is continuously Business Practice approximately 1 million.
In addition, Group monitoring and improving its activities.
For the Our internal codes of practice require business companies donated 164,000 to 348 charities second year running, Ladbrokes has achieved professionalism, honesty and integrity in all worldwide of which 131,000 was to UK Good Corporation accreditation, with its staff that we do.
We seek to comply with all relevant charitable organisations.
This excludes 200,000 receiving a commendation for their approach legislation and to maintain good relationships donated by Hilton International in support of to customers and the local community.
the Hilton in the Community Foundation.
Equal Opportunities Customers In demonstrating our commitment to and Human Rights Our customers are our business.
In order to corporate social responsibility CSR we Hilton Group values its international maintain high levels of satisfaction, we are have produced full disclosure on our website reputation and respects the communities in constantly assessing the views of our customers.
We uphold the principle of Hilton Group encourages its divisions to equal opportunities and strive to meet high operate a fair system for handling complaints Further information on CSR is included ethical standards.
Our divisions abide by the from customers, guests, employees and in the Directors Report on pages 47 to 49. provisions of the Universal Declaration of suppliers.
We respect the rights of the consumer Human Rights.
according to all applicable legislation in the countries in which we operate.
Health and Safety Health and safety is a primary objective of Business Partners and Supply Chain the Group and an integral part of the way We promote long-term relationships with we manage our business.
Our aim is to achieve our business partners and our divisions work best-practice standards in health and safety closely with their suppliers to maintain the throughout our operations.
We support a integrity and continuity of service expected proactive culture of risk management to ensure by our customers.
In particular, we have accidents and incidents remain as low as is established social, ethical and environmental reasonably practicable.
criteria for procurement and are working with our suppliers to integrate them into our supply chain.
Hilton Group plc Annual Report 2002 9
