Our customers Lotus was looking for a high quality, cost effective, reliable service that included the flexibility required in the current dynamic market environment.
LogicaCMGs support will allow us to react more effectively and efficiently to business demands as well as expand into new markets, thus enabling us to maintain our competitive advantage.
James Stronach, Group Lotus Financial Director LogicaCMG has an impressive track record in our LogicaCMG has a reputation in the energy and target markets and we want to use their experience to utility sector for delivering business benefits while build world-class IT systems that enhance AWGs maintaining flexibility in its service contracts.
competitive edge when bidding for new business.
This is critical to us as our business requirements evolve or as industry changes occur.
Iain Robertson, AWG Group Strategy Director Eric Connor, President and CEO, Northern Electric We need technology to be cost-effective and to The LogicaCMG team that advised and supervised deliver a sound return on investment and this means us displayed excellent technical know-how, even global rather than local solutions.
Our suppliers need to though the new SAP solution has only been on the help us in this by providing the best resources where market for a short while.
Moreover, LogicaCMG's and when we need them, and at affordable rates.
pragmatic attitude linked up well with the knowledge LogicaCMG has always shown flexibility in the way that and requirements of our own staff.
it is willing to work a down to earth attitude based on Jos Ramos Najera, Head of ICT, delivering pragmatic results.
Loodswezen Dutch Pilot Service Arjen Dorland, CIO of Shell Oil Products, Europe 20 Our customers LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 Electronic Records and Document Management is 3i have been deploying the talents of LogicaCMG for not just about IT.
It's about new ways of working.
We many years in a development and applications support are working very closely with LogicaCMG to help all role.
The cultural fit is excellent, LogicaCMG have an our people change the way they work.
inclusive, pragmatic culture where we work with the team.
LogicaCMG are open, proactive and professional Liz Maclachlan, Director, ERDM programme, in their approach and have developed an excellent Department of Trade and Industry understanding of our business and our systems.
John Tracey, Director, Head of Information Systems, 3i www.
