Environmental Statement The Group has also obtained registration for an Environmental Policy Integrated Management System IMS combining Marshalls have a Group Environmental Policy BS EN ISO14001 for Environment, OHSAS18001 for which is reviewed annually and is available on the Health and Safety and BS EN ISO9002 2000 at a Marshalls web site.
Caring for the environment is quarry and manufacturing unit within the Natural an important part of the Marshalls business Stone Division.
Work has already commenced philosophy.
The Group is committed to on introducing similar systems at six of the introducing measures to minimise any possible Landscape Products Divisions sites.
It is intended adverse effects its activities could have on the to roll-out IMS throughout the Group and an environment.
ambitious programme for this has been planned to allow all of the Groups thirty three sites to have In particular, Marshalls aims to improve its an IMS by the end of 2005.
It is planned for eight environmental performance by implementing a sites in the Landscape Products and Natural Stone series of objectives to control a number of Divisions to operate IMS by the end of 2003. significant environmental issues.
reduce CO2 emissions through implementation The Group has identified the significant of an Energy Management Programme and by environmental impacts of its operations, which maximising hydraulic system efficiency: are summarised below together with some of.
reduce water consumption from non-recycled the actions taken to minimise them.
reduce virgin raw material use by increased use of recycled material in production.
Energy The Board Director responsible for Environmental The kilowatt hours required to produce one tonne issues is the Deputy Chairman, Mr J. D. Marshall.
of finished product across the Group has reduced from 109 kWh per tonne to 103 kWh per tonne, between January 2002 and December 2002.
This represents a 5.5 per cent reduction in the use of Environmental Management energy.
These figures include energy from all During the year the Group obtained registration sources including landfill gas energy.
for Environmental Management Systems EMS to BS EN ISO14001 at a further three sites.
BS EN The use of landfill gas in the Clay Products ISO14001 certification through BSI has now been Division has increased during 2002 rising from achieved for 55 per cent of the Landscape 8 per cent to 12.5 per cent of the Divisions gas Products Divisions production capacity.
Energy monitoring equipment continues to be installed across the Groups sites, improving both awareness of energy consumption and providing a close focus on improving energy efficiency.
The payback on such equipment is usually under one year and, at one Landscape site energy consumption this year has reduced by 9.2 per cent.
20 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2002 All four manufacturing sites within the Clay Transportation Products Division have successfully concluded The Group is actively developing rail and water their first Climate Change Levy Milestone Year.
transportation links for incoming aggregate from This involved reducing fossil fuel for specific its suppliers.
During 2002, 2.5 per cent of the energy consumption by 6.2 per cent when Groups aggregates were delivered by rail.
Initial compared with the Climate Change Levy Base trials suggest that up to 10 per cent could be Year of 2000.
This represents a reduction of more delivered by rail to railheads situated close to 2 than 3,800 tonnes of CO emissions.
This would lead to a further reducing energy consumption in the Clay significant saving on road journeys.
The issue is Products Division continues.
currently being reviewed by management.
Delivery of aggregates by water is being Water Use investigated at two Landscape Products sites.
Research into the introduction of discharge water generated from the concrete manufacturing process back into the production process Waste Reduction has been completed at one of our sites.
Initial The Group is working actively to minimise the results are encouraging, suggesting that the waste generated from its activities.
Waste contaminated water discharge from the presses material generated by the manufacturing process can be recycled back into the process without any is now being recycled back into the process in the detriment to either the production process or the form of crushed aggregate.
performance characteristics of the product.
Products produced during the trials are still In the Landscape Products and Clay Products completing their final weathering testing, but Divisions, the Group has increased its use of this should these prove successful, and early recycled material by 6 per cent in the last year.
indicators suggest they will, such recycling will be There are further initiatives in place which should extended throughout the Group significantly see a further increase in this percentage during reducing demand for mains water.
Waste material from the Natural Stone Division is Significant capital has been spent at two of crushed and then recycled as a low grade the Landscape Products Divisions largest sites, to aggregate for sale in the local market place.
develop their drainage systems, allowing both better waste water management and greater use In the Landscape Products Division, waste of recycled water in the manufacturing processes.
material from other industries is being recycled as At one site, legal difficulties have delayed an aggregate replacement.
include china clay waste, steel slag waste and slate waste.
Initial trials have been completed At other sites in the Landscape Products Division and these indicate that an increase in the and the Emerging Businesses Division, increased proportion of the Groups demand for aggregates use of water harvesting is being developed, with could come from recycled waste material by the the long-term aim of achieving a high degree of end of 2003. self-sufficiency in water supply.
Marshalls plc Annual Report 2002 21 Environmental Statement continued Packaging Sustainability The Group continues to discharge its responsibility The Group continues to work with Trade under the Producer Responsibility Obligation Organisations in the development of Packaging Waste Regulations 1997 by payment Sustainability Strategies for the manufacture of to Valpak.
During 2002 The Brick Development Association, following its The Group has completed its review of involvement in the Pioneers Group established by packaging requirements and new initiatives to DTI and DEFRA, published their Sustainability rationalise packaging have been identified Strategy, which is supported by the Clay Products without compromising quality.
Division, who had an active part in the development of the strategy.
Waste packaging generated within the manufacturing units continues to be recycled.
Suppliers and Contractors The Group carries out Supplier Quality Audits, Land Management which includes environmental aspects of the The Group continues to develop brown suppliers operations.
Many medium size suppliers field sites.
During 2002, development was are working towards the introduction of EMS, concentrated on existing sites already utilised for while most of the Groups larger suppliers have manufacturing purposes by the Group.
Two other fully operational systems.
These systems are additional projects required the purchase of reviewed during the audits, which are actively brown field sites, one an existing industrial area, considered when reviewing supplier suitability.
the other part of a former power station gas works site.
No development took place on any green field site.
Environmental Impact of Product The Group continues to develop products which will help in the creation of a more sustainable infrastructure.
The Group maintains its stance that its products are intended for a long life with low maintenance, many products having a life well in excess of a hundred years.
Over such a life span, the initial environmental impact created during the manufacturing and installation process is minimal.
All products produced by the Group can also be easily recycled at the end of their useful life, either in new construction in the case of dry laid product or, when crushed, as a secondary aggregate.
Sustainable Urban Drainage System 22 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2002 Wildlife Trust Environmental Key Performance Indicators Marshalls strives to conserve natural habitats and creates additional areas of wildlife value wherever For 2003, the Group has aligned its Environmental possible.
The Group also recognises the need for Key Performance Indicators with those being sympathetic restoration and after use of quarry developed by the Construction Products sites and considers the character of the local Association.
environment and the concerns of the community when planning such matters.
These indicators cover the following areas:.
energy consumption: Marshalls encourages its manufacturing sites.
identifying energy from renewable and to join local Wildlife Trusts as part of its alternative sources: conservation policy.
water usage: Valley Wildlife Trust surveyed the Landscape.
identifying the percentage of recyclable Products Divisions Eaglescliffe site to ensure it water: is fully compliant with wildlife legislation and.
transportation movements: to suggest ways in which they can make a. waste reduction: contribution to local conservation.. reuse of waste by recycling in house and externally: and.
packaging management and the use of Environmental Awareness and Training recycled material in packaging.
Marshalls will continue to raise environmental awareness within the Group through the development and training of its employees and will communicate openly and consult with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders on relevant environmental matters.
A Best Practice web site is being established on the Groups Intranet to ensure employees are kept aware of Environmental Best Practice, with particular emphasis on recycling.
Training is also provided locally, to ensure that relevant staff are aware of their responsibilities and have the necessary knowledge and skills to perform their roles.
The Group also uses Lead Auditor Courses and Environmental Auditing Courses to ensure relevant staff are trained to audit the environmental aspects of the Groups Management Systems.
