Corporate Social Responsibility The Board takes regular account of the significance At factory level, health and safety is promoted by of social, environmental and ethical matters to the Safety, Health and Incident Prevention Teams which business of the Group.
Its comprehensive risk manconsist of employees and managers.
We have idenagement and internal control process identifies tified our major health and safety risk as being from and assesses the significant risks to the Companys repetitive manual handling processes and it is the short and long term value arising from such Groups policy to eliminate manual handling whermatters.
Marshalls recognises its corporate social The Board monitors the Groups accident statistics responsibilities to its shareholders, employees, on a monthly basis.
customers and suppliers and is committed to good practice.
The overall rate of workplace injuries within the Company continues to fall.
The number of accidents legally reportable under the Reporting of Statement of Values and Principles Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrence Regulations RIDDOR has fallen from 47.5 per The Groups statement of Values & Principles 1,000 employees in 2001 to 38.8 per 1,000 which is available on Marshalls web site at employees in 2002.
Our target is to reduce further www.
co. uk sets out the high standards RIDDOR injuries by 10 per cent in 2003. to which all Marshalls employees are encouraged and expected to adhere.
"Accidents and Incidents 2002 2001 rate per 1,000 employees The statement includes guidance on business Major injury 4.5 5.7 practice, entertainment, ""whistleblowing"" and Injury resulting in over equal opportunities together with a statement of 3 days absence from work 34.3 41.8 the Groups Values and Principles."
All RIDDORS 38.8 47.5 Total headcount 3,369 3,281 Health and Safety The Group is committed to maintaining high standards of health and safety for its employees, customers, contractors and anyone affected by its business activities.
This is done through education, training and example.
As part of this during 2002, the Group has been running a one day safety awareness course for all its employees which has been designed specifically for Marshalls to comply with its duty to educate all employees.
It is backed by the issue of a new Group Employee Health and Safety Handbook.
Perfecta paving & Birco linear drainage.
Chineham Court 18 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2002 Employees It is Marshalls policy to treat all its employees fairly and specifically to prohibit discrimination on the grounds of race, religion, sex, nationality or ethnic origin.
Disabled people are given equal consideration for all job vacancies for which they are suitable.
If employees become disabled the Group continues their employment wherever possible and arranges retraining.
The Group recognises that its reputation is very dependent on the quality, effectiveness and skill base of its employees.
There is a commitment at Board level to ensure that its employees and management are properly Towneley Hall, Burnley.
Natural Stone, walling and paving inducted into the Company and given the necessary training to fulfil their roles and to Community develop their full capabilities.
With ever increasing customer demands, particular emphasis is placed The Group is keen to contribute to the on customer service and interpersonal skills.
The communities in which it operates particularly Groups investment in management development those neighbouring its sites.
This is achieved continued to increase during the year and through charitable donations and other initiatives programmes are in place with the principal aims of that help the community.
ensuring consistent standards of management practice across the Group, nurturing new potential During the year, the Group made charitable donaand ensuring succession to senior appointments.
No political Electronic communication in general has resulted donations were made to European Union political in a massive reduction in internal paperwork parties or organisations during the year.
Arrangements exist to keep all employees informed of matters of concern to them through a variety of media including the Groups intranet, newsletters and meetings.
Employees are encouraged to become shareholders in the Company and the Group operates a Save As You Earn Scheme.
