McCarthy & Stone plc Environmental Report We recognise fully our responsibility towards the protection of the environment for the benefit of current and future generations and that all those with an interest in our activities, including our Customers and shareholders, will prosper through reducing environmental costs of processes, products and services.
Gary Day, Group Land and Planning Director, is responsible for environmental issues that affect the Group.
He chairs the Groups Environmental Committee, which oversees the implementation of the Groups Environmental Policy.
The Committees aim is to identify, analyse and wherever feasible, reduce any adverse impact of the Groups business on the environment and consists of representatives from the core functions of the Groups activities namely land, design and planning, construction, sales and marketing, finance and administration.
In the implementation of our Environmental Policy, the Committee concentrates on four key fields business operations: the retirement housing product: construction: and ecology.
The focus over the year has been on the adoption of a more systematic approach towards an environmental assessment of the Groups activities in the above-mentioned fields.
Advice has been taken from leading consultants and we are presently at the stage of developing a more formal and structured strategy.
We recognise that we already score well in terms of the sustainability of our operations but that there should be scope for improvement.
The adoption of a more systematic approach would enable the establishment of a verifiable bench-mark from which we can seek to improve the Groups environmental credentials.
Business operations All staff are encouraged to act in a manner that helps reduce the Groups adverse impact on the environment.
We have surveyed our staff so as to ascertain, and improve, the level of commitment to our Environmental Policy and have put in place Environmental Co-ordinators in each of our Regional Offices and at Head Office.
During the year new initiatives, such as recycling of waste paper, plastics, printer cartridges and fluorescent light tubes, have been implemented alongside the existing practices of lights off and car sharing.
For several years the Group has been committed to maximising the benefits of information technology and has ensured extensive use of its electronic mail system and public folder facility, thus reducing paperwork.
Additionally, Green Transport Plans are being drawn up for each of our Regional Offices and for Head Office, thus providing information on, and enabling choice of, alternative means of transport to and from the place of work so as to discourage unnecessary reliance on the private motor car.
The Group is pleased with the response by staff to the call for greater environmental awareness.
Retirement housing product We believe that our retirement housing schemes represent a very sustainable form of development, indeed, considerably more so than general housing schemes.
All of our schemes are built on centrally located urban brownfield sites, where good access to shops, public transport and other essential facilities is available without the need for reliance on the private motor car.
The nature of our product and the needs and aspirations of our customers are such that we apply strict locational criteria to the selection of new sites for development, to ensure they are centrally and conveniently located within an established community.
As with our offices, we intend to offer Green Transport Plans to all of our schemes so as to help reduce further our residents dependence on the private motor car.
Our product consists of one and two bedroomed self-contained purpose-built flats for older purchasers, built to high densities commensurate with site constraints and other relevant planning considerations.
In the year, the 52 developments for which we obtained planning consent reflected an average density of 122 dwelling units per hectare, excluding on-site Affordable Housing units where provided, comparing extremely favourably with the targets set out in PPG3.
In addition to satisfying a particular, and growing, special housing need, our schemes release existing under-occupied larger family houses back into the market, thus playing an important role in the recycling of housing stock in general and helping to satisfy the requirements of the community as a whole.
This recycling reduces the pressure to release new greenfield sites for housing.
In providing an independent lifestyle and helping to maintain health and general well-being for older people, our schemes reduce demands on health and social services and other care facilities hence contributing to a better and more cost effective use of public resources.
Page 24 McCarthy & Stone plc McCarthy & Stone plc Environmental Report Construction The urban brownfield nature of our sites is such that the Group continues to bring contaminated land back into beneficial use in accordance with the requirements of the Governments planning guidance PPG23 and with directives of the Environment Agency and the ODPM.
Examples include former gas works sites, industrial sites and redundant petrol filling stations.
It is our stated policy to maintain high standards of remediation and to continue to pay careful attention to the treatment and disposal of hazardous materials.
Where appropriate, the Group employs the use of bioremediation to decontaminate significant hydrocarbon pollution, avoiding the need to remove, transport and store large quantities of earth contaminated with petroleum products.
The Group works with sub-contractors and suppliers to encourage minimum waste on-site and the recycling of building materials.
All demolition contracts are awarded on an all risk clear site basis, meaning that the contractors re-use salvageable materials bricks and blocks being converted to hardcore, roofing material and undamaged timbers being re-sold for construction and renovation purposes.
Where appropriate we stipulate the use of on-site concrete crushers, specifically for re-cycling purposes.
Additionally, we encourage suppliers to reduce surplus packaging for materials, fixtures and fittings and seek to minimise the number and effect of deliveries.
Our designs are regularly reviewed by in-house specialists and external consultants, to ensure that the homes we provide are space and energy efficient and that, where feasible, natural raw materials and products are used in the construction process from renewable resources.
Ecology The Group prides itself on the quality of the landscaped gardens provided around its sheltered housing buildings.
Our aim is to retain existing trees whether covered by preservation orders or not and other mature vegetation where this fits happily with the objective of maximising the development potential of each site.
We have successfully implemented various Ecological Management Plans in consultation with English Nature and the Environment Agency, and have ensured the conservation of protected plants and native species.
Over the years the Group has won a number of Daily Mail Greenleaf Awards.
These are awarded to individual developments for their contribution to the landscape and retention of existing vegetation into the overall design of the site.
This year, we led the way in a new national environmental award scheme where our development at Kings Heath, Birmingham became the first housing scheme in the country to meet the Greenleaf Standard.
The Greenleaf Standard is an extension of the Greenleaf Scheme established in 1987 by the National Housebuilders Federation and enables developers to register their commitment to green principles at pre-construction stage.
By signing up to the standard the Group has made a pledge to preserve and respect natural landscape features within our schemes and thereby demonstrated further its commitment to eco-friendly design.
Group Environmental Policy The Groups environmental policy statement is based on a commitment to seek to apply the principles of responsible environmental management across its operations.
The objectives of the Policy are to: Allocate responsibility for environmental issues at main Board level.
Implement an environmental management system.
Comply with all the requirements for the safe remediation of contaminated sites and pay careful attention to the treatment and disposal of hazardous materials.
Maintain the space, energy and noise efficiency of our homes so as to comply with existing, and amended building regulations, with the objective of reducing both energy consumption and emissions.
Work with suppliers to seek to reduce surplus packaging for materials, fixtures and fittings.
Seek, where applicable, to use raw materials and products from sustainable sources.
Consider carefully, taking external advice when necessary, how to minimise traffic flows associated with our development.
Retain trees wherever practical and comply with tree preservation orders.
Consult with the various authorities with a view to managing water-courses and undertaking floodprevention measures where necessary.
Seek to enhance our homes with quality landscaping and amenity areas.
Take expert advice where necessary to safeguard protected species.
Seek to ensure the Groups offices and facilities are conducted in an environmentally sensitive fashion.
