Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
net Stock code: MRO 17 Lifting review Revenue Year ended 31 December 2011 World leading suppliers of wire, wire 484.4m rope products, lifting fittings and blocks.
2010: 422.7m 1 Headline operating profit Year ended 31 December 2011 www.
com 1 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset amortisation.
Revenue by end market Year ended 31 December 2011 www.
com 1 5 2 1 Energy 5% 2 Oil & Gas 33% 3 Mining 15% 4 Industrials 39% 3 5 Other 8% Pictured: 4 Bridon supplied 312 tonnes of steel wire rope for use on the Oleg Strashnov, owned by Seaway Heavy Lifting and used as a fast transit crane vessel, designed to lift loads of up to 5,000 metric tonnes.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 18 Annual Report 2011 Divisional review Lifting review continued BRIDON The mining market has continued to see solid activity levels with the Bridon designs and manufactures a comprehensive range of lifting demand for commodities largely unaffected so far by the global financial and stabilising solutions for applications in wire rope, fibre rope, downturn.
Orders have improved in most markets for both deep shaft steel wire and strand.
The company services global customers in and surface mining on the back of stronger demand in Russia, China the oil & gas, mining, industrial, marine and infrastructure sectors.
and South Africa, where Bridon is expanding its presence.
Bridons trading results improved in 2011 compared to 2010, with The commercial construction markets in Europe and the Middle sales and operating profit ahead of the previous year and operating East remained subdued through 2011, although there were some margins increased over the second half of 2010.
This reflected tentative signs of improvement in North America.
Many industrial an overall recovery in Bridons markets, the exiting of the lower crane companies remain very cautious and are reluctant to commit margin structures business and operational improvements.
Demand for crane ropes has continued to be solid in received in 2011 were approximately 20 per cent higher than in China, but the volatile industrial production levels in Asia have led to 2010.
Working capital control remained strong with greater than variable demand for industrial ropes.
100 per cent profit conversion to cash before capital expenditure.
Although steel prices rose by some 20 per cent in the year, Bridon Bridons strategy is to be the global technology leader for was largely able to pass this on, reflecting the underlying strength demanding rope applications and the leading solutions provider.
In order to support this strategy, Bridon is investing 20 million in building a new factory on Neptune Quay in Newcastle upon Tyne Demand for onshore oil & gas remained solid through the year.
In the to produce the largest ropes in the world.
This new factory, which offshore sector, there was some recovery compared to 2010 and this will initially employ around 40 people, should be operational by continues to build going into 2012.
Demand improved in the North December 2012.
Sea, Brazil and parts of Asia and Africa, whilst exploration and drilling activities in the Gulf of Mexico have continued to be impacted by the In addition, a new technology centre is being built in Doncaster, aftermath of the Horizon oil spill, reflected in the time taken to obtain which will provide state of the art laboratory and testing facilities.
or renew licences and permits.
Bridon has established a trading company in Brazil to service this important market.
Bridon continues to invest in the upgrading of its manufacturing facilities.
The programme to improve the wire mill in Doncaster was substantially completed in the year, which will increase Bridon manufacturing efficiencies and reduce carbon emissions and other environmental waste.
The major investment in new capacity in the German factory is also complete, significantly improving manufacturing capability for complex multi-strand ropes.
As part of its ongoing commitment to innovation, Bridon launched eight new products in 2011 and developed some promising enhancements to existing products.
For the mining market, new products include extended and sheathed round balance ropes with increased corrosion resistance and flexibility.
New products for the oil & gas sector include a new Bristar rope, which provides industry-leading technology for enhanced rope fatigue performance, and the Bristar with hyrtel system, with greater temperature resistance when compared to conventional polymer rope structures.
Cross section through Bridons new Tiger 24LS Dyform Hoist Rope, a new product that was launched in early 2012 Outlook and will typically be used by deep shaft mining customers The financial issues in the Eurozone have created uncertainty in for hoisting applications.
This product offers both heavy duty markets, and as a result a number of companies are cautious in performance and a high level of safety due to the fact that its terms of making financial commitments.
In spite of this, Bridon design ensures wires are not allowed to cross inside the rope, expects demand for oil & gas and commodities to remain solid thus reducing the amount of internal nicking.
The high oil price and the continuing requirement for commodities to support economic development, particularly in the emerging markets, should support activity levels in these sectors.
More information about Bridon is available online at www.
com 21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
net Stock code: MRO 19 Although the outlook for construction and manufacturing in general remains uncertain, continued growth in the emerging markets Crosby should underpin these sectors.
Substantial capital is being invested in Bridon to enable it to compete at the highest level in markets with favourable longer term growth prospects.
With an order book at the start of this year approximately 20 per cent higher than a year previously, we are confident of a good outcome in the year ahead.
CROSBY Crosby is a world leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of lifting fittings, blocks and sheaves to the oil & gas, construction and mining industries, serviced primarily through a global network of value-added specialty distributors.
Crosby has had an excellent year, continuing its strong recovery from the difficult year in 2009.
With revenues and operating profit up by over 20 per cent and 40 per cent respectively, its performance in 2011 was close to its record year in 2008.
Whilst construction markets in North America and Europe remained slow Crosbys Wide Body shackles were used to lift a 1,250 in 2011, oil & gas and mining remained strong worldwide.
metric tonne tower into place as part of the eastern span replacement of the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge in the During 2011, Crosby continued its focus on supporting and US, which is scheduled to open in 2013. working closely with its traditional worldwide distributor base, with less dependence on OEMs.
Through additional training programmes and close support, relationships have broadened and More information about Crosby is available online at www.
com deepened and are resulting in Crosby growing its market share with these distributors.
2011 saw the completion of several large capital investment During 2011, one of the key new product introductions developed programmes in Crosbys main US manufacturing plants, designed by Crosby was a new tubing clamp, called the McKissick Tubing to both increase production capacity and efficiency.
This has Grab, which provides a quick, easy and efficient attachment for been linked to an investment programme in Europe to rationalise the lifting of tubing to and from the rig floor within well servicing Crosbys manufacturing base to make it more efficient and at the applications.
Although early days, this application has been well same time to make it less dependent on Crosby US.
This will have received in the market place.
the additional benefit of further freeing up production capacity in the US to enable it to meet the increasing demand from emerging Crosby continues to be at the forefront of the development markets such as China, Brazil and India.
of e-application systems to provide customers with real-time information relating to the installation and use of Crosby products in It is expected that the demand for offshore oil & gas will continue the field.
Building on the increased usage by customers of access to grow worldwide for the foreseeable future.
In response to this, through the Apple iPad in 2011, Crosby is working on a suite of Crosby will continue to invest in large forging hammers and larger iPad-based and Android-based applications to extend the range machining equipment.
of services that can be utilised by customers.
It is hoped that this will be rolled out on a worldwide basis to include internet-based The expansion of Crosbys presence in emerging markets remains certifications through CertPro and Verification Pro systems.
During 2011, considerable investments were made in recruiting additional sales and engineering personnel and this Outlook will remain an area of focus for 2012.
Progress was made in 2011 Crosby has experienced a very sharp turnaround in its trading at Crosbys crane block and sheave centre in Hangzhou, China, performance since the low point in 2009, not least because of the to produce sheaves and blocks for the Chinese market and to sell decisive actions taken by management.
Although we do not expect additional standard product lines into the Chinese marketplace.
the same rate of growth to continue in 2012, the strength of the opening order book gives us confidence of further improvement this year.
