Melrose PLC 20 Annual Report 2011 Divisional review Other Industrial review Revenue Year ended 31 December 2011 Market leading manufacturers across the 207.9m housing, construction, automotive, scrap 1 2010: 185.2m processing and other industrial sectors.
2 Headline operating profit Year ended 31 December 2011 www.
com 1 Restated to include the results of Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Madico and Weber Knapp within discontinued operations.
2 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset amortisation.
co. uk Revenue by end market Year ended 31 December 2011 www.
com 6 1 2 1 Energy 2% 5 2 Industrials 3% 3 Hardware 37% 4 Automotive 29% Pictured: 5 Scrap processing 24% 3 MPC supplies over 40 different plastic components and assemblies 4 6 Other 5% to Land Rover for use on their new Range Rover Evoque, including complex door and wheel arch claddings.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
net Stock code: MRO 21 TRUTH Truth designs and manufactures a broad product portfolio of operating Truth hardware for windows, patio doors and skylights.
Truth products are sold primarily to OEM facilities throughout North America that serve new residential housing, commercial buildings and remodelling and replacement segments of the construction market.
Primary manufacturing facilities are located in Minnesota, USA, and Ontario, Canada, with some outsourcing to lower cost countries.
After a strong recovery in 2010, both Truth and its customer base expected the momentum to continue into 2011.
However, unusually harsh winter and spring weather in almost all regions of the US and Canada contributed to a slow start in 2011.
Optimism for a better second half receded as it became evident that the US Government tax incentives introduced in 2010 had the effect of bringing forward demand into 2010 at the expense of 2011.
On top of this, consumer confidence remained weak throughout the year.
The overall demand in the markets in which Truth operates declined in 2011 over the previous year.
However, as a result of a concerted focus on new product design and development, Truth outperformed, achieving some notable market share gains.
Truths new Sentry Multi-Point Hinged Patio Door Hardware A highlight in 2011 was the success of the award-winning Sentry System combines flexibility with optimal security.
The product Multi-Point Hinged Patio Door Hardware System.
This product was has a 90-degree thumbturn located above the handle, high launched in mid-2011 and has been well received in the market.
performance adjustable hinges and multiple handle designs.
It is selling well and is already established as a core product within the Truth range.
Control of overheads was an area of major focus during 2011.
Not More information about Truth is available online at only was this necessary to mitigate the impact on profit of the fall in www.
com sales, but also to help offset some of the effect of not being able to fully recover raw material price increases in the year.
Outlook Harris performed well in 2011 as demand for scrap recycling Truth remains positive about the prospects for 2012.
Without the machines continued to recover from 2010.
On the back of the distorting effect of the US Government tax incentives in 2010 healthy increase in orders in 2011 over the previous year, revenue and 2011, it is expected that Truth will see a more normalised increased by 15 per cent, including an encouraging contribution from pattern of demand than has been seen in the previous two years.
Operating profit was 25 per cent higher, assisted Although the general economy in North America is seeing signs of by continued efforts to improve productivity and contain costs.
recovery, conditions in housing and construction are lagging behind.
Nevertheless, Truth is confident of continuing to gain market share on Harris continued to invest in the design and engineering of new the back of a healthy pipeline of new product introductions.
Three new baler and shear products were introduced to inherently high quality, high margin business with a very strong position the market in 2011 that provide variable frequency drive technology in its market.
When the housing and construction markets in North for ferrous and non-ferrous materials.
These new machines boast America recover, Truths trading performance will bounce back sharply.
higher throughput than the machines they are replacing, but with approximately half the energy consumption, and present a strong HARRIS value proposition.
Harris is a market leader in the scrap and waste recycling industries, operating from two plants in Georgia, USA.
The Company designs, manufactures and services a full range of size reduction equipment solutions for the scrap metal and fibre recycling industries.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 22 Annual Report 2011 Divisional review Other Industrial review continued Harris expanded its presence in Latin America during 2011 to take MCKECHNIE PLASTIC COMPONENTS MPC advantage of the rapidly growing recycling industries in that region.
MPC designs and manufactures engineered plastic injection moulded and extruded components and metal pressings for Outlook sectors including food and beverage packaging, automotive, Harris expects demand in the recycling industry to remain stable in construction and industrial.
2012, with sales weighted more to the second half of the year, as in 2011.
After a year of significantly higher revenue and profit in 2011, MPC has reported strong trading results in 2011, with sales and we expect a more steady trading result in 2012. profit up by in excess of 45 per cent and 70 per cent respectively.
This is largely due to a healthy recovery in the automotive sector, where MPC is a supplier on a number of key programmes, such as the highly successful Range Rover Evoque.
During the year, MPC continued to focus on investing in its core engineering skills aimed at product and tool design, development Harris and testing.
As a result, it has been able to satisfy customer requirements for the supply of technically complex products, such as twin shot claddings, wheel arch liners and automated multi-assemblies.
Technical differentiation remains at the core of MPCs value proposition, as it seeks to work closely with partner-customers such as Jaguar Land Rover, Ford, Marks & Spencer, Makita, Diageo and Heineken.
MPC was delighted to be given the Jaguar Land Rover award for both quality and systems at its two manufacturing locations in Yorkshire, UK.
Outlook MPC is well placed to continue to profit from the demand from automotive OEMs to provide cars to key export markets such as China, Russia and North America.
With a number of exciting projects in the pipeline, we are confident of another year of progress for MPC.
The equipment pictured shows a Harris GS-11, which is capable of shearing, baling and making logs and is the largest in the Harris GS series.
With a 1,100 tonne shearing capacity it is designed to process scrap metal, such as automotive, pipe and plate, heavy ferrous and steel mill scrap.
The specific model pictured was purchased by the Southern Metals Company, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, US.
More information about Harris is available online at www.
