Melrose PLC 14 Annual Report 2011 Divisional review Energy review Revenue Year ended 31 December 2011 Market leading manufacturers of electricity generating equipment, switchgear and 461.6m 2010: 427.5m transformers.
eu Year ended 31 December 2011 www.
hss-ltd. com 1 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset amortisation.
Revenue by end market Year ended 31 December 2011 www.
com 3 Industrials 11% 2 4 Other 11% Pictured: Fabrication of a stator frame for a DAX designed generator at Brush Turbogenerators.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
net Stock code: MRO 15 BRUSH Brushs aftermarket business saw sales increase marginally in 2011 Brush Turbogenerators Turbogenerators is the worlds largest compared to 2010, as end-users sought to conserve cash by independent manufacturer of electricity generating equipment for the deferring maintenance expenditure.
With aftermarket sales at 29 per power generation, industrial, oil & gas and offshore sectors.
From cent of Brushs total revenue in 2011, a major effort is continuing to its four plants in the UK, the Netherlands, the Czech Republic and be directed at this business to deliver growth and margin progression, the USA, it designs, manufactures and services turbogenerators, and to benefit from the very promising market opportunities that exist principally in the 10 MW to 250 MW range, for both gas and steam as a result of the large installed base of turbogenerators.
turbine applications and supplies a globally diverse customer base.
In addition, Brush designs and manufactures systems and Transformers saw revenue beginning to recover in the second power transformers under the brand name Brush Transformers half of 2011 as UK demand for transformers increased, as we Transformers and also produces a wide range of indoor and enter year two of the current five-year OFGEM cycle.
There was a outdoor medium voltage AC DC switchgear under the Hawker substantial improvement in order input in 2011, with orders more Siddeley Switchgear HSS brand name.
than double that of the previous year.
Brush performed strongly in 2011, building on the significant progress On the back of the successful integration of Transformers into made since acquisition in 2008.
Operating profit for the year was 25 Brush in 2010, HSS was also absorbed into Brush in late 2011. per cent higher than in 2010 on the back of sales which were up by 4 The customer overlap and efficiency gains should benefit the per cent over the same period.
Turbogenerator order intake in 2011 enlarged Group going forward.
was substantially higher than in 2010, including the first orders for the new large air-cooled product, and the trading performance was HSS revenue increased by 16 per cent in 2011 compared to 2010.
The supported by excellent cash generation during the year.
Eclipse AC switchgear indoor product was the stand-out performer in the year, recording a 34 per cent increase, and this product now Turbogenerators new build revenue increased marginally in 2011 accounts for approximately 50 per cent of HSSs sales.
Strong growth over 2010, as the global power generation market continued its was also experienced in the companys Australian operation.
During the year, Turbogenerators increased its share of the market it operates in, particularly in the more efficient and Order intake at HSS increased by 8 per cent over 2010 with almost environmentally acceptable gas turbine sector, which continues to all product lines being ahead of internal forecasts.
The exception grow at the expense of the coal and nuclear sectors, with the latter was the High Speed DC Lightning product, which is primarily suffering as a result of the Fukushima incident in Japan.
used for major projects within the rail industry, which suffered from delays in a number of major rail infrastructure projects.
Turbogenerators operating profit in 2011 benefited from the contract to supply four 250 MW combined-cooled generators to the nuclear As part of Brush, HSS will not only benefit from sales and power plant at Mochovce in the Slovak Republic.
2011 was the last marketing synergies, but also from the implementation of the Brush full year of this highly successful multi-year 46 million contract.
We expect the latter to positively impact on the operating margin in 2012.
The productivity benefits of the substantial capital investment programme, which started in the first half of the year, have Harrington, the specialist small generator manufacturer based in the UK, been most encouraging.
During the year 15 million of capital recorded a 30 per cent increase in revenue in 2011 and a 23 per cent expenditure was approved.
The majority of this relates to capacity increase in orders as a result of winning a number of large contracts.
increases and productivity improvements of the 2-pole generator production facilities in Brush in the UK and Czech Republic, the Outlook benefits of which will continue to flow through 2012 and into 2013.
Record order intake in 2011 has left Brush in an excellent position for 2012.
In order to further the productivity gains in Turbogenerators, a restructuring of the manufacturing facility in the Netherlands has Turbogenerators and Transformers entered 2012 with been announced.
The objective is to streamline the operation in approximately 70 per cent of their budgeted 2012 new build sales order to focus exclusively on the manufacture of 4-pole generators.
covered by orders, whilst HSS has about half.
This should be completed by mid-2012 and will generate significant savings.
This positive order momentum, coupled with further operational improvements and the continued drive to increase the contribution from higher margin aftermarket business, gives us confidence that Brush will have another good year in 2012.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 16 Annual Report 2011 Divisional review Energy review continued MARELLI MOTORI MARELLI Marelli, based in Italy, is one of the worlds leading manufacturers of Marelli industrial generators and electric motors with a product portfolio ranging from 0.12 KW to 7.2 MW.
With five overseas offices in Germany, UK, Malaysia, USA and South Africa, it serves worldwide markets for power generation, marine, oil & gas and industrial manufacturing.
Marelli reported healthy increases in revenue, order intake, and operating profit in 2011 of 22 per cent, 19 per cent and 15 per cent respectively.
As reported in the Interim Statement, trading in the first half of the year was affected by an adverse sales mix, which, as expected, was reversed in the second half as sales of higher margin, larger specialist machines recovered.
Cash generation and control of working capital continued to be well managed.
2011 was a productive year for Marelli in terms of new product introductions.
A number of new products were successfully launched, including a synchronous 400 Hz generator for use in the aviation industry, a special generator for use with tidal power and new motors to meet European efficiency regulations.
Over 1 million has been invested in the last two years in Marellis new Malaysian factory to manufacture the smaller, more standard generators.
This site has been operational since the last quarter of 2011 and currently employs around 100 people.
Although, Marelli supplied and installed two MJT 630 Series Hydro unsurprisingly, there still remain a few teething issues, relating to Generators to the City of Agordo, Northern Italy, for use within the finessing of the supply chain and the completion of the training a hydroelectric power plant, located near the River Liera.
The programme, it is nevertheless an important step in the rebalancing equipment provides a maximum power of 550 kW and a rated of Marellis manufacturing capacity.
The generators weigh 7.6 tonnes each and are able to satisfy the electric power requirements of over 370 Other than the investment in the Malaysian facility, additional capital households.
expenditure was made in the year to further improve existing manufacturing and testing procedures these include a new notching press for generators, development of CAD systems and More information about Marelli is available online at a large machinery test room.
Further capital investment has been www.
Outlook The trend reported in the Interim Statement of a recovery in Marellis higher margin marine, oil & gas and hydroelectric business looks set to continue.
The positive momentum in the order intake gives us confidence that 2012 will be another year of progress for Marelli.
