Directors Report and Business Review 3 The Directors present their annual report and audited accounts for the financial year ended 29 January 2011.
Principal activities NEXT is a UK based retailer offering exciting, beautifully designed, excellent quality clothing, footwear, accessories and home products.
NEXT distributes through three main channels: NEXT Retail, a chain of more than 500 stores in the UK and Eire, NEXT Directory, a home shopping catalogue and website with nearly 3 million active customers, and NEXT International, with more than 180 stores around the world.
NEXT also has a growing website capability in more than 30 countries.
Other group businesses include: n NEXT Sourcing, which designs, sources and buys NEXT branded products.
n Lipsy, which designs and sells its own branded younger womens fashion products through retail, internet and wholesale channels.
n Ventura, which provides customer services management to clients wishing to outsource their customer contact administration and fulfilment activities.
A review of the Groups businesses is set out in the Chief Executives Review and in the sections headed Business Strategies & Objectives, Key Performance Indicators, Risks & Uncertainties, Employees and Social & Environmental Matters.
Business strategies & objectives The primary financial objective of the Group is the delivery of sustainable long term growth in earnings per share EPS.
As explained more fully in the Chief Executives Review, it will be challenging to improve on this years record EPS.
However, the Board believes that there are new avenues of growth and further possible cost savings that should allow EPS to grow in the year ahead.
In the longer term, the Board considers that growth in EPS is best achieved by continuation of the following strategies in NEXTs operating businesses: n Improving and developing NEXT product ranges, success in which is reflected in total sales and like for like sales performance.
n Profitably increasing NEXT Retail and Lipsy selling space.
New store appraisals must meet demanding financial criteria before the investment is made and success is measured by monitoring achieved sales and profit contribution against appraised targets.
n Increasing the number of NEXT Directory customers and their average spend.
n Managing gross and net margins by better product sourcing, continuous cost control and efficient management of stock levels and working capital.
n Maintaining the Groups financial strength through an efficient balance sheet and financing structure.
n Purchasing and cancelling NEXT shares when it is earnings enhancing and in the interests of shareholders generally.
