52 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Appendix to the directors report business review Financial KPIs NWL non-financial KPIs Gearing to RCV NWG Customer satisfaction Definition and calculation: The ratio of Group net Definition and calculation: Domestic customers debt to a pro forma RCV, calculated as NWLs RCV satisfaction with overall service and overall value for plus the level of debt associated with the Kielder money, expressed as satisfaction averaged over the securitisation and the PFI contracts.
The NWL RCV surveys carried out during the year.
Average satisfaction represents the total capital value of the appointed water is based on a scale of 1 to 10 using the score of 6 and and sewerage business on which Ofwat allows a rate above as satisfied.
Net scores are used to show true of return at price reviews.
satisfaction by taking into consideration those who Purpose: The RCV generates most of the revenue are dissatisfied who score between 1 and 3. stream of the Group and regulatory gearing is an Purpose: To enable tracking of perception of important factor in credit ratings.
reputation, service and value for money over time.
Source of underlying data: NWLs RCV is calculated Source of underlying data: Independent surveys by Ofwat and published each year.
Ofwat also of 500 customers 300 north, 200 south chosen at publishes anticipated values up to five years ahead, random, but representative of the customer base, based on its last price determination.
Group net debt carried out each quarter a total of 2,000 customers.
is disclosed in the audited financial statements.
Customer levels of service Gearing to RCV NWL Definition and calculation: Customer service Definition and calculation: The ratio of NWL net standards are established by Ofwat and calculated debt to NWLs RCV.
The NWL RCV represents the total using source data in the company.
capital value of the appointed water and sewerage Purpose: To monitor customer service performance business on which Ofwat allows a rate of return at of NWL.
Source of underlying data: Information collected Purpose: The RCV generates most of the revenue by the company and submitted to Ofwat.
It is stream of the Group and regulatory gearing is an independently certified.
important factor in credit ratings.
Source of underlying data: NWLs RCV is calculated Employee turnover by Ofwat and published each year.
Ofwat also Definition and calculation: Number of leavers within publishes anticipated values up to five years ahead, the year as a percentage of average headcount.
based on its last price determination.
NWLs net debt Purpose: To track the employee turnover within the is disclosed in the audited regulatory accounts.
business to ensure that it is within benchmark data.
Source of underlying data: Current employees Cash interest cover NWG and NWL details are held within the human resources Definition and calculation: Cash generated from management system reports show leavers operations less tax divided by net interest paid.
Purpose: Measures the ability of the Group or company to service its debt.
Lost time reportable accidents Source of underlying data: Audited Definition and calculation: Injury accidents that are financial statements.
reported to the Health & Safety Executive as required by the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Cash flow to net debt NWG and NWL Occurrences Regulations 1995.
Calculated as the Definition and calculation: Cash generated from number of accidents reported in financial year per operations less tax paid divided by net debt.
Purpose: Indicates the Groups, or companys, ability Purpose: To monitor the safety performance of NWL to reduce debt in the absence of need for additional over time.
investment, without resorting to asset disposal.
Source of underlying data: Completed NWL Source of underlying data: Audited accident incident report forms.
are provided by the human resources department.
53 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Sickness absence Definition and calculation: Sickness absence days as a percentage of total working days multiplied by the end of month headcount.
Purpose: To track and trend sickness absence levels across the organisation.
Source of underlying data: Statement of Fitness for Work fit note, return to work interviews and weekly returns by managers.
Water quality Definition and calculation: Compliance with drinking water regulations as monitored by the DWI.
Purpose: To monitor drinking water quality.
Source of underlying data: Samples recorded by NWL and audited by the DWI.
Sewage treatment works Definition and calculation: Percentage of population equivalent served by non-compliant works failing look-up table consents, as defined by the EA.
Purpose: To monitor the performance of NWLs sewage treatment works and their impact on the environment.
Source of underlying data: Information recorded by NWL and the EA and reported on by the latter.
Bathing waters Mandatory Standard Definition and calculation: Percentage of bathing waters complying with Mandatory Standards.
Purpose: To monitor the impact of NWLs coastal treatment works on the environment.
Source of underlying data: Information recorded and reported by the EA.
Pollution incidents Definition and calculation: Number of category 1, 2 and 3 pollution incidents in the calendar year as defined by the EA.
Purpose: To monitor the performance of NWLs sewerage system and its impact on the environment.
Source of underlying data: Information recorded and reported to Ofwat by the EA.
