Business Review Roger White, Chief Executive In the 52 week period ending 29 January 2011, A. G. BARR has delivered growth well ahead of a buoyant soft drinks market.
Total turnover grew by 10.4%, making full year sales of 222.4m.
This is the second consecutive year in which like for like sales have increased by over 10.0%.
With strong sales momentum supported by continued well positioned to optimise our distribution network platform in investment across the business, we have managed our the future.
Our production investments, ahead of the Mansfield margins within a volatile macro economic climate.
Pre-tax site closure, are running to budget and meeting our timing profit, excluding exceptional items, increased by 13.3% to requirements.
The installation and commissioning of two new 31.6m.
The combination of sales growth and the proactive major filling lines and associated services has proved to be a management of costs across the business has delivered this tough challenge while we have continued to fulfil our growth profit growth, at the same time as we continued to invest and development demands across the full year.
The business in our brands, infrastructure and people.
has responded to the challenges set and has delivered this operational project in full, on time and on budget.
Within both of our key trading segments carbonates and stills including water we have made good progress.
The business Some slight changes to capital investment phasing, along has increased its focus on the core brands of IRN-BRU, Barr with the strong trading performance and our ongoing focus and Rubicon, utilising the full marketing mix to drive awareness, on cash, has reduced our net debt position by 24.9% on the build consumer trial and develop loyalty across an increasingly prior year, with a closing net debt of 16.6m.
large geographical area within the U. K. We have increased brand focus and have had to set priorities and make choices The board is proposing a total dividend of 25.41p per share, in particular, we have moved investment and focus away from which represents an increase of 10.0% on the previous year smaller fledgling brands Taut, Vitsmart and Findlays.
In the and reflects the continued financial strength of the business period our net exceptional charges were 1.2m of which and the boards confidence in its future prospects.
a full breakdown is included in the financial review.
The Soft Drinks Market Across 2010 11, we have made substantial progress in our The U. K. soft drinks market, as measured by Nielsen, operational investment and supply chain change plans.
continued to grow steadily across 2010, with GB take home The move to third party primary logistics and storage was growth of 7% in value and 3% in volume across the category an enabling step to improve load consolidation and customer as a whole.
This robust growth was driven by carbonates, service and to allow for higher volumes of movement within a which grew by 10% in value and 3% in volume, with strong more efficient transport network.
We successfully completed growth within the carbonates sector from energy, cola and this move across a high volume trading period and we are other flavoured carbonates.
Still drinks grew in the period, 10 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 increasing value by 4% and volume by 2%, with still sports Sustained investment behind strong brands that have the drinks driving much of the growth.
Across the total category combined attributes of an existing loyal consumer base all subsectors demonstrated value growth, with the exception and the capacity to grow geographically and across varied of dairy.
However, this resilient market performance was not consumer groups gives us the potential to further leverage repeated in on-premise, which suffered declines across the our scale across each of our key areas of focus.
This channel accounts for only a small percentage of growth of the business is therefore based on developing the our total business and its impact was minimal.
business as a whole, with ever increasing efforts behind brand development and sales execution.
The very positive soft drinks market growth was underpinned by strong category support from both consumers and retailers.
Core Brands and Markets We anticipate however that market growth will return to levels Much of our sales growth in the last year was delivered as more representative of long term average growth rates during a consequence of our increased focus on our core brands the course of 2011 12. and our strategy of building on strong core geographical performance, such as IRN-BRU in Scotland and Rubicon in Strategy London.
The growth and development of specific geographical The continued strong financial and operating performance areas and the consumer subsectors within these markets of the business is based on the long term, consistent contributed significantly to this growth.
development of the following key areas of strategic focus: Our two major reporting segments remain: t Core brands and markets t Portfolio development t Carbonates t Route to market t Still drinks and water t Partnerships t Efficient operations t People development t Sustainability A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 11 Business Review continued Both of our key segments exhibited strong growth.
The The IRN-BRU brand maintained still sector grew well ahead of the market at 9.4%, within this performance Rubicon stills delivered 22.5% growth its leading position in the Scottish compensating for some weakness in the St Clements brand: market, supported by advertising re-positioning of the St Clements brand is underway.
Overall our carbonates continued to perform strongly, with excellent activity, sponsorship and value growth from IRN-BRU, Barr, Rubicon and KA.
Rockstar also delivered 16% year on year sales growth in the carbonates added promotions across the year.
IRN-BRU grew by 4% in revenue terms, maintaining the long term consistent growth delivery which saw 5% growth last year and 8% growth two years ago.
This consistent long term growth reflects our efforts to build a brand for the long term.
The IRN-BRU brand maintained its leading position in the Scottish market, supported by advertising activity, sponsorship and value added promotions across the year.
Following on from our successful free glass promotions of prior years, we gave away over 250,000 IRN-BRU beach towels to Scottish consumers over the summer months, as well as supporting growth across the World Cup period with the award winning Bruzil advertising campaign.
The development of IRN-BRU outside its historical core Scottish market made great progress in the year.
Sales of IRN-BRU in northern England, grew by 10%, where we invested in incremental resources at point of purchase, in sales execution and in further consumer brand development work in the form of both consumer advertising and sponsorship specifically around Rugby League, all of which provided significant support for our growth ambitions.
12 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The IRN-BRU BRUZIL campaign, with viral and TV spots during World Cup matches, was launched by Archie Gemill in June 2010.
To coincide with the football world cup IRN-BRU also launched Big Match 500ml cans and Big Match TWIN two-litre packs.
New IRN-BRU TV ads broke across the U. K. during April 2010.
Below right: In January 2011, Diet IRN-BRU was renamed IRN-BRU Sugar Free.
IRN-BRU in the North East, Lancashire and Yorkshire regions, During the course of 2010 11 we began to develop the responded well to our incremental activity and grew well ahead association of Rubicon and cricket.
This approach to building of the soft drinks market.
It is our intention to maintain this the awareness of the Rubicon brand gives us a combination regional growth approach and continue to develop IRN-BRU of appealing to existing core ethnic consumers as well as lifting in tandem with our other core brands, Barr and Rubicon in the profile of the brand to a much wider audience.
appraisals suggest this marketing approach and specific association is working well.
In 2011 12 we will continue to The Barr range of traditional flavoured carbonates has use cricket as a key element in developing the Rubicon brand.
continued its growth momentum, increasing sales by 22% and building on last years 33% increase in revenue.
In addition, In addition to driving increased brand awareness, we are the new range of premium traditional carbonates in the Barrs further building the portfolio across 2011 12 with the addition Originals range, although modest in overall scale, grew by of Rubicon Light to the portfolio.
The Rubicon Light product over 50% and, alongside the great value family favourites in is designed to broaden the brands appeal to a wider range the Barr range, is expected to continue to grow as distribution of consumers and delivers an excellent product quality and gains make these good value products available to an ever consumer drinking experience.
Across the current year we wider audience of consumers.
will further strengthen the Rubicon portfolio and will continue to develop the KA and Sun Exotic brands which compliment The Rubicon brand, which we acquired in August 2008, Rubicon in our exotics range.
has now almost doubled in sales terms since the acquisition.
This growth performance can be attributed to the combination As a portfolio business, we continue to seek opportunities of excellent product quality, loyal existing consumers and to leverage our growth opportunities across the full range.
growing brand awareness in a wider geographical area.
Within our wider portfolio, water has continued to improve Over the course of the 2010 11 financial year we have seen at a market level and Strathmore has built on the second half the benefit of increased brand distribution both through multiple momentum of the prior year.
Strathmore grew by 5% in revenue retailers and, importantly, significantly better distribution across terms and we have continued to see improvements to margins the impulse channel.
Both Rubicon stills and carbonates grew as we focus on both cost control and improving the product across the year, with carbonates growing by 40% and now channel mix for this brand.
making up 40% of the Rubicon brand sales mix.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 13 Business Review continued Portfolio Development impulse channel, utilising both wholesaler and direct to store Despite an excellent overall total soft drinks market, innovation routes to market to ensure we grow and develop our business in general has been challenging as consumers have tended in this important channel.
to stick with established brands which they know and trust and that offer good value.
This insight has driven our portfolio With further investments made and more planned in vending developments to focus not on the completely new but on and chilled equipment across the market, we believe it is the development of the format, flavour and variants of correct to continue to invest in developing winning positions existing brands.
across multiple routes to market.
In addition to the launch of Rubicon Light and extending Partnerships the KA brand, we have successfully launched several new With long term positions already in place with our key partners, flavour variants, including KA Fruit Punch and Barr Orangeade.
2010 11 was a year of continued growth.
We have also set the foundations for the rebranding of diet IRN-BRU to IRN-BRU Sugar Free.
Rockstar grew sales by 16% despite the extremely competitive nature of the market.
This growth was supported by both We believe it is possible to drive further growth through innovation, such as the launch of the first branded still large our existing brands using this approach as well as seeking can energy drink, Rockstar Recovery, and also by exciting new further portfolio development opportunities.
brand building and sponsorship activities, such as the signing of Jorge Lorenzo, 2010 MotoGP World Champion by Rockstar.
Route to Market We anticipate the continued growth of Rockstar as brand The desire to maintain and develop our multiple routes to awareness increases and further innovation is brought to market is a key part of our strategy.
The growing opportunity market in 2011 12. in the take home channel across different format stores, from multiple retailers through to discount chains as well as high Orangina grew steadily in the period as we continued to develop street retail outlets, necessitates different skills and increases our strategy of building a premium orange carbonates brand complexity across the business but represents great growth which is sustainable for the long term, a strategy fully endorsed potential.
We have continued to strengthen our activity in the by the brand owner of Orangina, Suntory.
14 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Rubicon became ofcial broadcast sponsor of the 20 20 cricket world cup on Sky Sports with cricket themed idents.
In May, sparkling Passionfruit Rubicon was launched.
This was supported by an outdoor poster campaign and the start of an all summer Rubicon sampling campaign.
Our partners across the world who work with us to develop During the year we have our brands outside the U. K. continue to support and develop our international business.
In Scandinavia Rubicon grew successfully launched several new strongly up 13% and a recovering Russian economy saw flavour variants, including KA Fruit IRN-BRU sales up 10% in Russia in the period.
In overall terms, our international business grew by 26% and continues Punch and Barr Orangeade.
to offer the potential for significant long term growth.
Efficient Operations Following on from a year of progress and planning in 2009 10 we initiated and delivered a significant amount of change across our operations in 2010 11.
The investment programme in our Cumbernauld production facility has progressed extremely well, as has our move into third party primary logistics and storage.
These two major projects have enabled the planned closure of our Mansfield site, which will close in early March 2011 as anticipated.
It is never an easy position when it comes to finally closing a site, especially one which has continued to deliver exemplary performance across the last twelve months despite the impending planned changes.
The full team at Mansfield are due our gratitude and praise for all that they have done, in particular during the past few months.
We have supported our Mansfield employees in this challenging time and are delighted that many have found suitable alternative future employment in the area.
In addition to the challenging environment at Mansfield, we should also recognise the huge effort across our other sites to successfully supply the market during significant internal change against such a strong growth backdrop.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 15 Business Review continued The capital investment at Cumbernauld has been focused People and Sustainability on new filling blowing equipment.
The choices we have made The step change in the growth trajectory of A. G. BARR is in regard to the blower fillers and bottle designs will not only no coincidence: it is the result of the efforts of a committed enable significantly increased volume through the site but and increasingly skilled workforce in all of the functional areas will also reduce our PET usage by some 7% on these new across its sites.
machines as well as reducing the energy used in the production of these bottles by 12.5%.
These changes have proved to We entered the Investors in People IIP programme in 2009 10 be crucial in helping to offset some of the immediate cost and, following assessments of every operating site in the pressures now being felt in material costs in the early stages business, we have achieved the IIP accreditation we set out to of the 2011 12 financial year.
The process of accreditation has allowed us more fully to benchmark our people performance and to set in motion Overall capital expenditure totalled 9.8m which is well ahead more actions to deliver future improvements in communication, of the previous year 2010: 5.3m but slightly less than we engagement and leadership.
We aim to continue to invest in originally anticipated.
We had previously assessed that we building our organisational capability and will focus in the coming would have paid deposits and initial payments for our planned year on many of our key processes to ensure that they are fit to wind turbine project but this is now expected to be paid in meet the requirements of our growing business.
the early part of the 2011 12 financial year following finalisation of our wind turbine plans.
Despite the significant operational change over the last year, health and safety management has been at the forefront of It is anticipated that 2011 12 will see further value adding and all the structural, organisational and asset based changes cost reducing capital projects such as in-house sleeving of we have driven.
The ongoing development of a safety culture PET bottles and the completion of the wind turbine project.
across the business will continue to be a critical focus in the In addition, we are now planning further capacity stretch 2011 12 financial year.
options to ensure we can meet the future volume, portfolio and format demands of our business.
Our performance in the corporate responsibility arena has continued to be rolled out across the Company.
We have also ensured our performance, against our agreed sustainability targets, has delivered as highlighted in the CSR report.
16 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 In July, we launched KA Fruit Punch and Rockstar Recovery 500ml can a still lemon avour drink that provides both energy and hydration.
IRN-BRU: In August the IRN-BRU sponsored SFL Ginger Boot Awards were launched to recognise the leagues top goal scorers.
Below right: In May, 330ml glass bottles were launched for BARRS Originals and IRN-BRU.
Summary Our market place will continue to be competitive however we The soft drinks market has performed strongly in 2010 11 remain confident in our ability to build a strong business based despite the continued difficult macro economic climate.
on our proven strategy for sustainable growth.
We have increased our share of this growing market and have done so through sustainable long term brand and product investment rather than short term price driven activity.
Our portfolio as a whole has performed well and our core brands have responded to further investment.
It has been a challenging year from an operational perspective significant internal investment, change and a site closure were all delivered during a period of strong volume growth.
White The current market remains challenging for all consumer Chief Executive goods businesses.
Increasing input costs and changes to the tax regime have seen consumer goods prices rise to final consumers and the impact of this on the overall market is not yet certain.
Our focus over the coming year will be to maintain our investment across the business to deliver great value and great tasting brands that consumers love, ensuring they are available through increased numbers of outlets and in convenient and relevant pack formats.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 17
