Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 25 Business Review with Mark Whiteling Thetime-to-market pressures and the increasing amount Introduction ofenvironmental legislation associated with the design of As the world of technology The Premier Farnell Group consists of two divisions: the electronics makes it paramount that we are able to meet Marketing and Distribution Division MDD and the Industrial constantly evolves around us all, allthe needs of the EDEs.
This is the key to ensuring that Products Division IPD.
Premier Farnell remains at the forefront of its industry now so is the working environment of andin the future and it is exactly what the next 1,000 day MDD comprises five businesses which distribute a wide strategy is all about.
rangeof electronic components, equipment and our EDE customers.
Maintenance, Repair and Operations MRO products.
Through the continued execution of our core strategy Thebusinesses serve commercial, industrial and public andbybuilding on this proven strategy to develop new sector markets in Europe, North America and Asia Pacific.
services this year has seen the Group lead its industry out In2011 they represented 92% of sales and 89% of operating ofrecession.
Wehave continued to invest in the breadth profit in the year before head office costs.
anddepth of ourproduct range and superior logistics, whilebuilding a proposition that increasingly meets all of Customers include Electronic Design Engineers EDE, ourcustomer needs, whether that be access to the latest smallscale production units, purchasing professionals and new-to-market technologies, accurate product data and maintenance and repair engineers.
In aggregate, the MDD information, industry leading environmental guidance or businesses have over two million customer contacts, to theservices, software and technology solutions that are whichthey provide in excess of 400,000 different products, anintegral part of the design engineering workplace.
sourced from an extensive global supply chain, as well as rapid and reliable delivery and specialised value-adding Only an estimated 20% of the high service distribution services.
These customers place many small orders with an marketis served by large global distributors with the expectation of high service, hence the average order values capability to meet these evolving customer needs.
ineach region of approximately 260 in North America, Thismarket structure, together with the strength of 160in Europe and 160 in Asia Pacific.
ourstrategy has led to us accelerating our market share gainsthrough 2011 and aswelook towards the new year During the year IPD comprised two businesses: Akron Brass, Premier Farnell is well positioned to delineate a truly a manufacturer of high performance fire-fighting apparatus, uniqueproposition that will drive further market share gains.
and TPC, a distributor of high performance electrical wire, cable and connectors.
In 2011, the Division accounted for 8%of sales and 11% of operating profit, based on continuing operations and before head office costs.
On 31 January 2011, Note: This Business Review is prepared in accordance with the requirements of the just after the financial year-end, the Group disposed of TPC Companies Act 2006 and is framed around the principles and guidelines for Operating and Financial Reviews published in the UK by the Accounting Standards Board.
Its purpose is Wire & Cable see page 44 for further details.
to provide information which is significant to understanding the development, performance and position of the Group, the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Groupandto include the KPIs used by the Group to monitor this development, performance and position.
Additionally, the Business Review is intended to highlight trends, where identifiable, in factors which affect the development, performance and position of the Group.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 26 Business Review with Mark Whiteling continued Over the past year we have remained focused on increasing In addition, we also began the work to plan and prepare for the profitability of the Group through driving an acceleration the alignment of our back-end systems to support our single inthe transformation of Premier Farnell.
The execution of our front-end web platform and we successfully initiated the roll core strategy has continued.
However, we have also begun out of our new warehouse management system software by tobuild on the strong foundations of that core strategy with implementing it in Asia Pacific.
As well as driving efficiencies the emergence and significant progression of many of our in workflows, the updating of some of our systems and 1,000 day initiatives.
2011 delivered a further increase in software is providing us with the capacity and the capabilities thebusiness sales mix towards the EDE customer segment needed to ensure we are able to support the future needs andmore sales via the web than ever before.
Our developing ofour customers and suppliers.
The year ahead will see markets grew to become an even larger part of our uscontinue to invest in this planning and preparation work.
organisation and we remained focused on targeting the Wewill also continue with the evolution of our element14 moreprofitable segments of MRO.
Given the progress brand around the world, while we also take significant steps wemade over the first three years of our strategy and based toenhance our leadership in the digital space through on how weenvisage the shape of the business will change investing in our eCommerce platform.
over thenext 1,000 days, in the first quarter of 2011 we The following sections cover only the MDD businesses released anupdated set of Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
onthebasis that this Division represented 92% of sales.
TheGroups performance against these updated KPIs TheIPD businesses are covered in the relevant section inthefirst year of its 1,000 day journey can been seen on oftheReview of Operations pages14 and 15 of this report.
During the year we have continued to invest in our future and, as highlighted at the beginning of the year, we incurred incremental revenue costs of 5.0 million.
These investments have led to us rebranding our entire Asia Pacific operations toelement14 and significantly enhancing our proposition inthe region as we combined commerce and community online, built the broadest locally held inventory of technology products in the region and strengthened our high service capabilities to offer an unrivalled next day delivery proposition to almost every part of the region.
