PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Europe The acquisition of St Tropez in September 2010 provided the catalyst for the formation of the PZ Cussons Beauty Division.
The existing brands of The Sanctuary and Charles Worthington have the opportunity to benefit from St Tropezs wider distribution footprint in the UK and small but growing footprint in the US and Australia.
Regional highlights: Market shares in UK core washing and bathing sector increased in the second half following new product launches and despite competitive trading conditions Good performance in the newly formed Beauty Division with growth in revenue and profitability across the newly acquired St Tropez brand, as well as The Sanctuary and Charles Worthington Competitive trading conditions in fabric care in Poland whilst Original Source also launched into the market to complement personal wash portfolio Lower profitability in Greece due to tough trading conditions as a result of the domestic economic crisis Revenue Operating profit before exceptional items million million 217.8 235.8 288.1 280.8 305.5 30.3 32.6 40.9 46.2 49.6 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 20 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 By the end of the financial year the UK of the PZ Cussons Beauty Division.
The business was operating as two divisions: existing brands of The Sanctuary and The PZ Cussons Washing and Bathing Charles Worthington have the opportunity Division which manages the Imperial to benefit from St Tropezs wider distribution Leather, Carex and Original Source footprint in the UK and small but growing brands with the majority of products footprint in the US and Australia.
All manufactured at the Groups Agecroft three brands performed well during facility in North Manchester: and the year in a less promotionally intense The newly formed PZ Cussons Beauty trading environment and remain relatively Division which manages the more unaffected by increased raw material premium brands: St Tropez, The costs given the higher margin nature of Sanctuary and Charles Worthington out the range.
During the year, distribution of new offices in Covent Garden with all of The Sanctuary was extended into the manufacture outsourced to third parties.
Debenhams chain whilst new product launches such as the new Essentials range The trading environment in the grocery have proved successful.
The main spa trade for Washing and Bathing has in Covent Garden and the new boutique Luksja SkinKind remained challenging with continued high spas in Richmond, Cambridge and Our Polish personal levels of promotional activity and weak Bristol continue to build footfall despite a care business is being consumer demand resulting in a broadly challenging consumer environment.
New effective in taking flat market overall.
Despite this, the Groups product launches under the St Tropez innovation from the strategy of continuing to renovate and brand include a new Naturals range and UK developed at the innovate its brand portfolios has ensured exciting new sun protection products, whilst Personal Wash Centre market shares have continued to increase.
earlier in the year, the Charles Worthington of Excellence into their Examples of new product launches in range was completely relaunched existing brand range and the year include Imperial Leather limited resulting in record market share with an also through launching edition shower and bath variants and further exciting new product range planned for Carex and Original Source new products under the unique Imperial launch early in the new financial year.
The Luksja Leather Skin Kind range.
The Carex range SkinKind range is an was completely relaunched earlier in the Trading conditions in Poland have been excellent example of year with new formulations and packaging challenging particularly in fabric care where innovation has and a further extension to the range is although the relaunch of the E brand in been transferred between planned for early in the new financial year.
the second half of the year is resulting in the UK and Poland.
Further range extensions to the Original improved market share.
The personal wash Source brand have also taken place.
This portfolio continues to grow under the Luksja strategy of range renovation, facilitated by and Carex brands and has been broadened the Personal Wash Centre of Excellence further in the year with the launch of Original at Agecroft, is helping to produce higher Source into selected distribution channels.
quality products at improved margins which are helping to mitigate higher raw material Revenue and profitability in Greece is and promotional costs.
Margins are also lower than the previous year as a result of being helped by higher efficiencies at significant competitor promotional activity Agecroft where annualised output has now in the olive oil category and weak consumer reached 150 million units per year versus the demand as a result of the domestic output of 100 million units per year when economic crisis.
Despite this, the business the facility was commissioned, resulting in has focused on growing the value added a best in class unit cost of manufacture.
parts of the portfolio namely butter, spreads and cheeses and new product launches Carex The acquisition of St Tropez in September in the year included a range of low fat and Carex, the UKs leading 2010 provided the catalyst for the formation cholesterol reducing white cheeses.
anti-bacterial handwash, was rejuvenated at the beginning of the year with new formulations Benecol White and packaging.
A further Benecol White has been extension to the range will introduced into the Greek be launched early in the market and is the only cheese new financial year helping product produced from to ensure that the leading Greek goat and sheep milk position is maintained.
and enriched with benecol which has proven cholesterol reducing properties.
21 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Building our success Europe New Beauty Division On 1 June 2011, the Beauty Division became fully operational bringing together the Groups premium brands: The Sanctuary, St Tropez and Charles Worthington into one strategic business unit.
Selected markets Leading brands World class supply chain Great team of people The premium beauty The three brands in All manufacturing is A great team of people market is a key sector for the Beauty Division all outsourced to third parties is vital to the divisions the Group with the three occupy leading positions and then distributed success and the outstanding brands in within the UK market.
through a combination establishment of an the current portfolio all of grocery and chemists experienced management having leading positions St Tropez is the leading chains, department team along with the in the UK market.
self-tanning product in stores and salons.
The bringing together of the UK and is the most combination of the three employees into one London The consolidation of the widely recognised selfbrands into one division location will be a key Groups premium brands tanning product with will facilitate synergies enabler for future growth into the Beauty Division the consumer.
Charles in the supply chain and and margin improvement.
will enable real strategic Worthington occupies will also provide each focus on this higher margin the market number two brand the opportunity for and growing market.
A brand in professional hair distribution through new new management and care and The Sanctuary but established channels.
operational structure has has a leading position been put in place in order in spa products which to realise the full potential is supported by the of the three brands building success of the iconic on the success in the London day spa.
UK and maximising their presence internationally.
Continuous innovation and development of the product offering across the three brands has ensured that they continue to occupy these leading positions whilst alignment of distribution models should also lead to further opportunities to grow market share.
22 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 The Sanctuary continues to expand its product offering from the core body spa range to a wider selection of beauty solutions and therapies, using revolutionary technologies and luxurious ingredients to help consumers achieve professional results in their own home.
The portfolio of sunless tanning products includes professional products for use in salons and a growing portfolio of self-tanning products for use at home.
The product range has been extended in the current year with the addition of the Naturals range of self-tanning products and a sun protection range.
Charles Worthington has completely re-launched its product portfolio throughout the year with new packaging and also new ranges such as the front row range of hair styling products.
