PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Asia In Indonesia, second half performance has been particularly strong following the relaunch of the Cussons Baby range in late 2010 resulting in our number one share of the Baby Care market being strengthened further.
Regional highlights: Good increase in revenue and profitability across the Asia region Strong underlying growth in Indonesia in the second half following the major relaunch of the Cussons Baby range earlier in the year Launch of Original Source in Australia in the year as part of strategy to grow personal wash in that market Revenue Operating profit before exceptional items million million 107.2 116.0 135.0 165.6 176.1 9.8 10.2 10.2 13.0 17.5 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 16 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 In Australia, underlying revenue and profitability for the year were lower as a result of reduced listings in the competitive trade, increased promotional costs, and a tightening consumer environment particularly in the second half of the year, although favourable exchange rate movements have resulted in higher reported profitability.
Despite the competitive environment, new product launches have taken place across all three categories of fabric care, dish care and personal wash, with Original Source launched into the market earlier in the year as part of the strategy to broaden the Groups presence in personal care.
In Indonesia, second half performance Original Source has been particularly strong following A range of Original Source the relaunch of the Cussons Baby range products have been towards the end of the first half of the launched into the year leading to a further strengthening Australian market during of our number one share of the baby the year, and represents care market.
The range was relaunched one of the initiatives taken with new formulations and packaging to expand the Groups resulting in improved margins.
Whilst presence in the Australian smaller, the other brands in the portfolio, personal wash category.
Imperial Leather, Morning Fresh and Cussons Kids Carex have also performed well.
In addition to the complete relaunch of the Revenue and profitability in the other Asian baby range, the Cussons units of The Middle East and Thailand Kids range has also been were also ahead of the prior year.
rejuvenated with new formulations and packaging offering a range of shampoos.
body washes and tooth pastes.
New additions are also planned for the future.
Morning Fresh dishwasher gel In April 2011, Morning Fresh dishwasher gel was launched in Australia.
This is Australias first dishwasher gel and is an excellent example of innovation in existing brand categories.
17 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Building our success Asia Indonesia relaunch Cussons Baby Cussons Baby has increased its market position as leader in the Indonesia baby category helped by the complete relaunch of the Cussons Baby range with new packaging and formulations introduced in the first half of the year.
The range offers a wide variety of products from soaps, lotions, shampoos, talcum powders and rubs.
We continue to strengthen and improve our product offering, launching a number of new products and relaunching new improved variants during the year, invigorating demand across the entire brand proposition.
Going forward we continue to aim high with further product innovation and a focus on building experimental consumer relationships through digital media and mother and baby centres.
The aim is to work closely with customers and be recognised as the trusted expert and undisputed category leader in Mother and Baby Care.
18 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Selected markets Leading brands World class supply chain Great team of people With 4.2 million babies Buying a respected and PZ Cussons Indonesia A great team of employees being born annually in well known brand is one distributes to over across many functions Indonesia each of of the Indonesian mothers 10,000 islands, 150,000 worked together to which is unique we most important factors traditional retailers deliver fantastic results place high importance when choosing products and 750 independent to the business.
Effective on understanding the for their baby.
Our 16 communication of market and what they Cussons Baby brand is well strong network of depots project aims was key really need and desire.
established, a new look and allows us to effectively in aligning employees feel across the whole range distribute to the most across Indonesia behind Through extensive market was designed to continue challenging of Indonesian the common goal.
research with thousands to capture the consumers geographies reaching A strong team of 1,000 of mothers we were able imagination and remind both traditional and sales representatives to establish what was them of why it is the modern outlets to achieve as well as a promotional really required and were leading brand in baby care.
maximum penetration team of 300 was vital in able to transfer this into The brand architecture was and speed to market.
delivering the message products with clear and improved to communicate directly to customers relevant consumer benefits clear skin benefits for and consumers alike.
that parents and babies each product grouping would love.
Through our Naturals, Mild and Gentle, new ranges we achieved Cares and Protects, and increased market share Soft and Smooth.
An across our core baby extensive communication categories through the plan supported the year, further strengthening re-launch, and feedback our market leading position.
from consumers has been extremely positive, showing improved perception of the brand in terms of quality, choice, appeal and uniqueness and this was evident in the increasing market share.
Going forward there are plans for further product innovation ensuring sustainability of category growth.
