PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Africa Both the investment in more efficient soap manufacturing at the site in Aba and in a new detergent tower at Ikorodu, are positively impacting margins to partially offset the significant increase in raw material costs which have been experienced in the year.
Regional highlights: Broadly flat performance in Africa despite tough trading conditions in Nigeria due to tight liquidity provision and disruption ahead of the presidential elections Improvement in trading conditions in Nigeria following completion of the election process in April Initial groundwork completed for palm oil refinery as part of the new joint venture with Wilmar announced in the year Revenue Operating profit before exceptional items m m 220.7 268.4 358.7 325.2 339.1 26.1 33.6 39.5 42.2 41.0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 12 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 In Nigeria, the presidential elections also been raised where possible although were completed by the end of April these still lag the on-cost from raw material 2011 and saw the re-election of the increases.
There have been a number of incumbent president.
Whilst some unrest successful new product launches in the occurred before and after the elections, year including Premier Cool Deo soap, the outcome provides a positive political Morning Fresh all purpose cleaner and a platform for the country to build upon the new wrapped version of Canoe laundry progress made by previous governments.
In addition, products relaunched with Economically, high oil prices bode well new formulations and packaging include Premier Cool Deo for the country enabling foreign exchange Zip detergents and Robb medicaments.
Premier the biggest soap reserves to be accumulated to fund future brand in Nigeria launched investments by the new government.
In Electricals, the focus has continued to Premier Cool Deo during The Naira has remained relatively stable be on the core range of fridges, freezers the year.
Supported by an against the US Dollar throughout the year and air conditioners sold through the intensive TV campaign, and the economic outlook for the country HPZ joint venture with Haier, as well as the new addition has remains encouraging with positive GDP the range of generators imported and quickly become one of growth rates expected to continue.
sold through our wholly owned Harefield the star performers in the subsidiary.
During the year, two further Premier range.
During the year, pre-election uncertainty HT Cool World stores were opened taking translated into liquidity in the market the number to six, with two further stores remaining tight with the banks operating planned in the first half of the new year.
conservative lending policies to the trade.
As a result, performance in Nigeria has been Nutricima, the joint venture with Glanbia broadly flat versus the prior year although plc, has seen revenue growth of almost sales post-election have been encouraging.
20% in the year to circa 60m despite tough trading conditions with the new During the year, the Groups holding UHT range from the second factory in its listed Nigerian subsidiary has contributing well.
These products are being been increased further from 66.1% sold under the core Nunu and Yo!
as well as the new Bliss brand which was launched into the market last year.
The Group continues to operate in four Continued significant increases in the cost categories in Nigeria, namely Personal Care, of milk have however adversely affected Home Care, Electricals and Food & Nutrition.
profitability with the Groups share of profit Morning fresh all-purpose for the year being 0.4m 2010: 1.6m.
cleaner In Personal Care and Home Care The Morning Fresh respectively, the investment in more Ghana and Kenya have continued to product portfolio has efficient soap manufacturing at the site perform well with revenue and profitability been expanded, in Aba and in a new detergent tower at ahead of the prior year.
In Ghana the increasing the brands Ikorodu, are positively impacting margins Nutrition and Electrical Portfolios have reach from dish wash into to partially offset the significant increase continued to grow and three HT Cool World more general kitchen in raw material costs which have been retail outlets have now been opened.
cleaning, with the experienced in the year.
Selling prices have introduction of the new Morning Fresh multisurface hygienic cleaner.
Bliss Bliss, an addition to the UHT product offering in the year, is performing well.
The brand offers a range of products including flavoured ice tea and chocolate milk in a range of pack sizes and compliments the other UHT products marketed under the Nunu and Yo!
13 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Building our success Africa PZ Wilmar In December 2010, we announced plans to expand our presence in the Food & Nutrition category in Nigeria through the establishment of a food ingredients joint venture with Singapore based Wilmar International Limited, one of Asias leading agribusiness groups.
The intention is to develop a range of branded products including edible oils and nutritional spreads.
The joint venture will secure the availability and quality of the oil ingredients through the construction of a palm oil refinery in Nigeria, expected to be completed within two years, and representing an investment of approximately 17 million.
14 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Selected markets Leading brands World class supply chain Great team of people We have a long standing The opportunity to develop One of the key strengths PZ Wilmar is being presence in Nigeria and a branded consumer as part of the Joint Venture developed as a new have used our experience, products business in palm is our world class supply strategic business unit infrastructure and oil based food products is chain and distribution for PZ Cussons, and like knowledge of the market significant for the Group network within Nigeria, our other units it will be to enter new business and capitalises on our developed over 100 years.
built on a great team of sectors.
The Group entered extensive knowledge and people.
We have been the Food & Nutrition market experience of the Nigerian We have an established undertaking a targeted in 2005 through a joint market.
The intention is to countrywide network of recruitment programme, venture with Glanbia plc to develop a range of branded depots and distributors with the objective to bring manufacture and distribute products including edible and a strong sales team in experts in the industry milk based products and oils and nutritional spreads, ensuring we efficiently and from across the globe to the entry into palm oil with a secured supply reliably distribute products build a world class and processing and related of palm oil processed with 80% national coverage committed team.
The team food ingredient products through our own refinery.
also extends outside of the represents a further business as we are aiming expansion of our Food & to work closely with local Nutrition offering in Nigeria.
communities as part of our approach to corporate social responsibility and doing good business.
