Business Review 2011 This review for the financial year ended PERFORMANCE OF THE BUSINESS IN 2011 human resources and information services, 31 December 2011 conforms to the Business The results include the business of SSL from combined with three area organisations: Review required under the Companies Act 1 November 2010, and Paras from 1 April Europe: North America & Australia: and 2006.
It should be read in conjunction with 2011, their respective dates of acquisition.
Developing Markets, plus RB Pharmaceuticals.
the rest of this Annual Report, the Groups Operating profit is not separately disclosed for The central category development function, latest Sustainability Report and the Groups SSL or Paras as, in the view of the Directors, it is where appropriate supported by global sales, is website www.
not practicable to identify their operating profit responsible for Powerbrand strategies, brand due to their integration into the commercial equity programmes and best practices, and This review details the performance of the infrastructure of Reckitt Benckiser.
new product development including research business under the geographical segments and development R&D and consumer and and category structure in place during 2011 Where appropriate, the term like-for-like market research, for implementation by the and prior periods.
describes the performance of the business on a area organisation.
comparable basis, excluding the impact of major Our reshaped strategy and new reporting acquisitions, disposals, discontinued operations The supply function is responsible for all segments and category structure are and foreign exchange.
Like-for-like analysis procurement raw and packaging materials and detailed on pages 3 to 8. excludes the impact of SSL for the full year services, production and logistics globally, and NATURE, OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES OF and Paras.
is directly responsible for the operation of the THE BUSINESS Groups 53 production facilities worldwide.
Where appropriate, the term base business Reckitt Benckiser is one of the worlds leading Facilities are located in Europe 17 facilities, represents the Europe, North America & manufacturers and marketers of branded North America five, Australia and New Australia and Developing Markets geographic products in household, health & personal care, Zealand one.
The remaining facilities spread areas, and excludes RB Pharmaceuticals.
selling a comprehensive range through over 60 across Asia 21, Latin America four, and operating companies into nearly 200 countries.
Where appropriate, the term adjusted Africa Middle East five include a small In 2011, nearly three-quarters of net revenue excludes the impact of exceptional items.
number of facilities in higher risk labour and was generated by brands that are either market social environments.
2011 net revenue increased at 12%, 13% at leader or ranked second in their markets.
constant exchange rate constant, to 9,485m, Information Services IS is responsible for the Reckitt Benckisers 2011 vision was to deliver with like-for-like growth of 4% for the Group Groups global systems infrastructure and better consumer solutions in household, health and 4% like-for-like for the base business, global systems, including the Groups chosen & personal care for the ultimate purpose of both at constant.
enterprise resource planning ERP system and creating Shareholder value.
The gross margin declined by 90 bps to In summary the strategy of the business 59.7%, largely as a result of benefits from cost SEGMENTAL PERFORMANCE AT CONSTANT pursued in 2011 was: optimisation programmes and a positive EXCHANGE RATES transaction impact from foreign exchange, The three geographical areas are responsible Identify and operate in under-penetrated more than offset by higher input costs and for local execution of marketing and household, health & personal care categories promotional spend.
Total marketing was higher, sales programmes: which exhibit potential for superior growth.
and pure media spend rose 8% 9% Europe.
The area covers the regions of Have a disproportionate focus on our 19 constant to a level of 10.4% of net revenue.
Northern Europe UK, Ireland, Scandinavia, Powerbrands to realise our vision, drive On an adjusted basis, operating profit was Germany, Netherlands, Austria, Switzerland, above industry average growth and ahead 11% 13% constant to 2,487, with Southern Europe France, Belgium, Italy, strengthen their global market positions.
the adjusted operating margin down 20 bps Greece, Spain, Portugal and export business to 26.2% due to RB Pharmaceuticals.
Transform the above industry average net and Eastern Europe Poland, Hungary, Czech Operating profit as reported was 2,395m, revenue growth into attractive profits and Republic Slovakia, Romania, Adriatics, Russia & 12% higher than last year 14% constant cash flow.
owing to an exceptional pre-tax charge of The Group also sought to complement these 92m taken in respect of the acquisition of SSL 2011 total net revenue increased 15% -1% objectives with targeted strategic and and Paras.
For the base business, adjusted like-for-like to 4,009m.
Within health care financially compelling acquisitions.
operating profit rose 16% 17% constant to Nurofen, Strepsils and Gaviscon delivered a 1,969m, equating to a 60 bps improvement strong result, supported by such new initiatives During 2010, the Group announced the in the margin.
as Nuromol and Strepsils Warm.
Growth in acquisition of SSL International plc SSL and in personal care was driven by the continued April 2011 completed the acquisition of Paras Net finance expense was 19m 2010: net roll-out of the Dettol No-Touch Hand Soap Pharmaceuticals Limited Paras.
These finance income of 6m, with strong free cash System, which continues to deliver an transactions provide a step change in the flow generation during the year partly offset by encouraging result.
Surface care grew from Groups global health & personal care business, the payment in respect of the acquisition of Dettol and Harpic.
The result in home care a key driver of the Groups net revenue and Paras in April.
The 2011 net finance expense was boosted by such recent initiatives as the profit growth.
includes a 4m exceptional charge in respect of Air Wick 100% natural propellant spray and financing costs associated with the acquisition The integration of SSL has progressed well Air Wick Freshmatic Odour Detect as well as of SSL 2010: 3m.
The underlying effective with cost synergies of 85m achieved during continued growth in candles.
The largest factor tax rate was 26% 2010: 26%.
the year, well above the ingoing target of in the decline in fabric care was continued 50m, due to the benefits being realised ahead Net income attributable to Shareholders was weakness in laundry detergents and fabric of schedule.
1,745m, an increase of 11% 13% constant softeners in Southern Europe.
Heavy versus 2010: on an adjusted basis, net income promotional and media investment continues The acquisition of Paras has created a material was up 9% 11% constant.
Diluted earnings behind Vanish to protect volume share consumer health care business in India, with the per share of 237.1 pence was 11% higher on a against competition.
addition of a number of strong and leading reported basis: on an adjusted diluted basis, the brands.
These are complementary to the Groups Adjusted operating profit was ahead 10% to growth was 9% to 247.1 pence.
existing portfolio, and include such products as 908m: while the adjusted operating margin Moov topical analgesic pain ointment, DCold STRUCTURE OF GROUP OPERATIONS decreased 100 bps, due to a combination of cold flu remedy, Dermicool for prickly heat and The Group structures its business through a increased investment in price and promotion Krack medicated skin treatment for cracked matrix of a centralised category development and higher input costs, partially offset by heels.
The integration of this acquisition is also organisation, global sales organisation, supply SSL synergies.
progressing in line with targets.
organisation and support functions finance, 10 2011 North America & Australia NAA.
The area the Group expects that the Suboxone Leading positions in analgesics and upper covers the markets of North America USA, sublingual film will help to mitigate the impact.
gastro-intestinal products in Europe and Canada, Australia and New Zealand.
Australia with the Powerbrands Nurofen 2011 total net revenue grew 6% to 762m.
2011 total net revenue increased 5% 3% The patent-protected Suboxone sublingual film like-for-like to 2,402m.
Growth came from continued to grow, and by the end of Leading positions in footcare and comfort health & personal care, dishwashing and food.
December had captured a 48% volume footwear in many markets outside North The increase in health & personal care was share of the total market and has further America and Latin America, with the driven by Mucinex, which benefited from the strengthened its position as market leader, Powerbrand Scholl.
Q3 rollout of Mucinex Fast Max.
In dishwashing, ahead of tablets.
The North America business The Group also has local leading positions Finish Quantum and All-in-1 tablets and gel net revenue declined -2% to 587m of which in denture care, dry skin care and packs contributed to an excellent performance.
In Europe and rest cold flu products.
The increase in food came from the consumer of the world, the result was helped by the buy brands Frenchs Mustard and Franks Red Hot back of the sales and distribution rights in the In 2011 net revenue increased 37% to Sauce, which was supported by additional majority of countries in July 2010.
Adjusted operating profit for the total RB In health care, the result was driven by very Pharmaceuticals business increased 1% to good growth for Nurofen, Mucinex, Strepsils Adjusted operating profit increased 10% to 518m.
The operating margin was down and Gaviscon, boosted by such new initiatives 652m: the operating margin was 130 bps -400 bps to 68.0%, largely due to the lower as Strepsils Warm and Mucinex Fast Max.
margins on the film variant and the impact personal care, Dettol continued to grow well in Developing Markets.
The area covers the of higher rebates primarily relating to Medicaid.
both Developing Markets, and in Europe where regions of Latin America Brazil, Mexico, the continued roll-out of the No-Touch Hand THE GROUPS BRAND PORTFOLIO, MARKET Argentina and smaller markets, Africa Middle Soap System has been very encouraging.
POSITION AND PERFORMANCE East South Africa, Middle East, Pakistan, East The Group benefits from many very strong Fabric Care Africa, West Africa, South Asia India, market positions for its brand portfolio.
1 worldwide in fabric treatment Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Indonesia and East Asia The Group has leading positions in selected products to remove stains from clothes, Korea, Hong Kong, China, Taiwan, Singapore, household, health & personal care categories.
carpets and upholstery with the Powerbrand Malaysia, Thailand, Japan.
These positions derive from the strength of Vanish, around the globe and Resolve Spray 2011 net revenue was ahead 24% 13% the Groups leading brands, described as n Wash in North America.
By category, health & Powerbrands, which are the flagship brands No.
1 worldwide in garment care laundry personal care continued to grow well with in the Groups five major categories and on cleaning products for delicate garments with good growth coming from Dettol, Strepsils, which the Group focuses the majority of its the Powerbrand Woolite.
The increase in fabric care efforts and investment.
The Group also has was driven by Vanish, while Harpic and Veja other portfolio brands which play a role as No.
1 worldwide in water softeners were the key drivers in surface care.
In home builders of scale in local markets.
products to prevent limescale build-up on care, both air care and pest control contributed washing machines and laundry with the These leading positions include: to its performance.
Health & Personal Care Adjusted operating profit increased by 48% The Group has a number of local market The health & personal care category consists of to 399m.
This resulted in a 270 bps positions in laundry detergents and fabric products that relieve or solve common personal improvement in the operating margin to 17.3%.
softeners for example, in Spain, Italy, certain and health problems.
The Groups strength in East European markets and Korea.
RB Pharmaceuticals is this category was further enhanced by the also has a small private label business, which responsible for the development of the Groups acquisition of SSL.
principally provides laundry detergents to Subutex and Suboxone prescription drug No.
1 worldwide in antiseptic liquids with the major multi-national retailers in Europe.
Both products are based on Powerbrand Dettol.
Buprenorphine for treatment of opiate In 2011 net revenue declined 5% to 1,503m, dependence.
Suboxone is a more advanced No.
1 worldwide in depilatory products with predominantly driven by continued weakness in product compared to Subutex, as it has the Powerbrand Veet.
laundry detergents and fabric softeners in substantially better protection against abuse by Southern Europe.
The Group continues to No.
1 worldwide in medicated sore throat the opioid-dependent population.
In the US, invest aggressively to protect the market products with the Powerbrand Strepsils.
Suboxone lost the exclusivity afforded by its position of Vanish against other competitor orphan drug status on 8 October 2009.
1 worldwide in condoms for both safe launches and intensive promotional activity.
and more pleasurable sex, with the As a result market share trends are improving.
On 31 August 2010, the Group announced Powerbrand Durex.
that it had received approval from the US Food Surface Care and Drug Administration for its New Drug No.
2 worldwide in cold flu including No.
1 worldwide in the overall surface care Application to manufacture and market decongestants with the Powerbrand category due to leading positions across Suboxone sublingual film.
disinfectant cleaners, non-disinfectant film has been developed through an exclusive multi-purpose cleaners, lavatory care, No.
3 worldwide in acne treatment with the agreement with MonoSol Rx, utilising its speciality cleaners and polishes waxes.
proprietary PharmFilm technology, to deliver Suboxone in a fast-dissolving sublingual film.
2011 Results excluding RB Pharmaceuticals As with all prescription drugs, the protection of In light of the likelihood of generic competition to Suboxone tablets, the Group provides the following the business has a finite term unless replaced information relating to the performance of the business in 2011 excluding RB Pharmaceuticals.
with new treatments or forms.
RB ex RB RB As a result of the loss of exclusivity in the US, Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceuticals Total RB up to 80% of the revenue and profit of the m % m % m % Suboxone tablet business in the US might be Net revenue 8,723 4% 762 6% 9,485 4% lost in the year following the launch of generic Adjusted operating profit 1,969 17% 518 1% 2,487 13% competitors, with the possibility of further Adjusted operating margin 22.6% 68.0% 26.2% erosion thereafter.
However, in the event of like-for-like at constant exchange rates generic competition to the Suboxone tablet, 2011 11 Business Review 2011 continued No.
1 worldwide in disinfectant cleaners THE INDUSTRY, MARKET AND COMPETITIVE innovative new products, it does not believe it products which both clean and disinfect ENVIRONMENT to be the dominant performance indicator for surfaces, killing 99.9% of germs with the The household, health & personal care industry innovation success.
Powerbrand Lysol, in North America and the is generally characterised by steady growth in INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS AND surface care products in the Dettol range demand, with little variation due to macroREGULATORY POSITION outside North America.
economic factors, particularly in developed The household, health & personal markets.
Some developing markets exhibit No.
1 worldwide in lavatory care with Lysol in care industry is heavily regulated by, inter alia, more volatile demand in reaction to macroNorth America and the Powerbrand Harpic, the European Union and individual country economic factors.
The principal drivers of across Europe and Developing Markets.
Ingredients, market growth in all markets are the rate of manufacturing standards, labour standards, The Group has a number of local leading household formation and growth in the level of product safety, marketing and advertising brands in non-disinfectant multi-purpose disposable income, combined with demand for claims are all subject to detailed and cleaners, speciality cleaners and new products that offer improved performance developing regulation.
The Group has a comprehensive set of policies In 2011 net revenue grew 3% to 1,422m.
The industry is intensely competitive, with a and procedures designed to enforce and There was good growth in Dettol Lysol and comparatively small number of major multiprotect its reputation and govern its business Veja, with a strong result for Harpic being national competitors accounting for a large methods and practices.
These cover, inter alia, boosted by Power Plus and Max Power proportion of total global supply.
The Group a comprehensive Code of Conduct, an toilet liquids.
competes with numerous, well-established, Environment Policy, a Global Manufacturing local, regional, national and international Home Care Standard, a Product Safety Policy including companies, some of which are very large and No.
2 worldwide in air care with the compliance with all regulatory requirements establish and defend their products, market Powerbrand Air Wick.
Internal controls on shares and brands.
Principal competitors environmental, social, governance ESG No.
1 worldwide in pest control with the include FMCG companies like Clorox, matters and reputational risk are further Powerbrand Mortein, the Groups Colgate-Palmolive, Henkel, Procter & Gamble, outlined in pages 14 to 16 of this report.
international brand, supported by local brand S. C. Johnson and Unilever, and such franchises like d-Con in North America.
pharmaceutical companies as Bayer, RESOURCES GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson and The major resources required by the business No.
2 worldwide in shoe care with such Novartis plus a number of strong local are an adequate supply of the raw and brands as Cherry Blossom and Nugget.
packaging materials consumed by the Groups In 2011 net revenue increased 5% to products and the necessary funds for Reckitt Benckiser competes in strongly branded 1,204m.
In air care, the result was supported developing new products and reinvestment in segments by focusing on its leading positions in by the launch of Air Wick 100% natural advertising and promoting those brands.
It is typically the propellant spray and Air Wick Freshmatic other principal resource is management.
market leader or a close follower, a position Odour Detect, with continued good growth obtained through its ability to introduce new The Group considers that its primary raw in candles.
In pest control, a strong season products whether improved or newly materials, such as bulk chemicals including a and growth in automatic sprays contributed developed supported by a rising and number of petrochemicals, plastics, pulp, metal to the performance.
substantial level of marketing and media cans etc, are generally in adequate global Dishwashing investment.
A lot of competition in the industry supply.
The cost of these items fluctuates from No.
1 worldwide in automatic dishwashing focuses on competing claims for product time to time but not at levels that seriously products used in automatic dishwashers performance, rather than price or terms.
For impinge on the ability of the Group to supply with the Powerbrand Finish.
this reason, failure to introduce new products its products or generate profit.
The Group is and gain acceptance may significantly impact profitable and cash generative, even after The Group also has some small, local the Groups operating results.
The Group must reinvesting in marketing, specifically media, positions in the manual dishwashing market.
also defend itself against challenges to its at levels above the industry average.
The Net revenue increased 3% to 896m.
The leadership positions in markets: this requires Group therefore believes that its ability to performance was led by the continued success significant marketing expenditure and reinvest in supporting and building its brands of Finish Quantum and All-in-1.
Total Household and Health & Personal The Groups products also compete with private Supply constraints do exist in the Groups Care label products sold by major retail companies.
supply chain from time to time.
These normally In 2011 net revenue was ahead by 14% The Group does this by focusing on delivering arise due to unexpected demand for new to 8,408m.
innovative new products with real consumer products or the time delay involved in stepping benefits, which private label typically do up production of new items to the levels The Group also has two non-strategic not do.
Consistent marketing investment required to supply many millions of units businesses: Food and Pharmaceuticals.
communicates the benefits of the Groups internationally.
The Groups supply chain is Food.
The Group owns a largely North brands directly to consumers, to a far higher deliberately relatively well spread in terms of American food business, the principal brands degree than private label.
geography and technology, such that the of which are the Powerbrand Frenchs Mustard reliance on any one facility is minimised.
Technological change and product the No.
1 mustard, and Franks Red Hot Sauce However, there are a number of facilities that improvement can be a key determinant of the the No.
1 hot sauce and wing sauce in remain critical to the Groups supply chain, Groups success.
Reckitt Benckisers success in North America.
where major interruption to normal working introducing new and improved products stems could involve disruption to supply.
The Groups 2011 net revenue grew 7% to 315m with a from its heavy focus on developing a pipeline of suppliers are similarly deliberately well spread in very good performance across the consumer product innovation.
The Group maintains a terms of geography and supplied items, but portfolio, in particular further growth of large category development organisation there are nonetheless some risks to continuity Frenchs Mustard and Franks Red Hot Sauce.
including market and consumer research, R&D of supply arising from some specialised Adjusted operating profit increased 13% and marketing sales best practice to fuel the suppliers both of raw materials and of third to 95m.
innovation pipeline and share category success party manufactured items.
While the Group The supply of strong management for the believes R&D to be a key contributor to Group remains more than adequate.
This is 12 2011 attributable to the Groups culture and its accounting for more than 10% of net revenue Suppliers of key raw and packaging materials, highly performance-oriented remuneration and the top ten customers accounting for less co-packers of finished product and the Groups policy, based on paying for excellent than one quarter of net revenue.
Although manufacturing facilities and key technologies performance.
The Group believes that its ability these customers continue to become more are risk assessed for their potential impact on to attract and retain the excellent management concentrated in their chosen markets, the supply disruption for branded products.
it needs to continue its success depends Groups wide geographical spread and diversity Business continuity plans are in place critically on this system.
The Group trains and of product lines provides a natural balance.
throughout the Group and major sites are develops its management pipeline through routinely and independently assessed towards Equally, the Group sources its raw and formal training programmes focusing on three achievement of a highly protected site status.
packaging materials and finished goods from a areas leadership skills, functional skills and wide variety of predominantly international The successful integration into the Group of general skills and through a deliberate policy chemical and packaging companies and businesses acquired with non-controlling of training on the job.
The Group has 25 formal co-packers.
No single supplier accounts for interests through recent acquisitions.
training modules for middle management and more than 5% of Cost of Goods Sold COGS Top 400 international managers T400.
The Group will seek to exercise management and the Groups global purchasing function During 2011, the Group ran over 80 courses on control and or purchase the outstanding shares balances the need for competitive pricing with these modules, training over 652 people.
in a business with non-controlling interests at continuity of supply.
Management is international and is trained the appropriate time, thereby ensuring through rotation in international postings both The Groups brand portfolio is also broadly continuity of key management and the in countries and in the Groups central based with the most significant Powerbrand achievement of the strategic goals for that functions.
Succession planning is a critical accounting for only 9% of net revenue.
A dedicated project team is management discipline and is reviewed brand in turn is founded on a variety of assembled to integrate the businesses annually at least by the full Board and the appropriate technology platforms which drive a and, where appropriate, to quickly divest Executive Committee.
steady stream of product development.
individual brands are self-supporting and The Group closely monitors and tracks its T400.
Key senior management leave the Group, or independent of the Reckitt Benckiser corporate This is the core management team of the management turnover increases significantly.
This reduces the business and is a diverse group, consisting of potential for any brand reputation damage to The Group structures its reward programme to 47 nationalities.
Over 59% of the T400 is impact across a broader front.
attract and retain the best people.
The formal working in a country that is not their original succession planning process continues to evolve domicile, consistent with the Groups policy to The financial stability of the Group is assured with plans being reviewed and updated develop a multi-national management team.
through a combination of a low level of regularly for key positions and individuals.
Turnover within this T400 group in 2011 was leverage, as borrowings to finance acquisitions 13.4%, which the Group considers satisfactory are paid down rapidly through strong cash Non-delivery of expected benefits from the given the need to retain high-quality flows, and a stable Shareholder base.
management offset by the benefits of Given the combination of the financial strength A strong and independent governance refreshing the team with new talent.
2011 saw and geographic spread of the Group, its range structure has been put in place.
This should 71 promotions, 59 moves including five moves of brands and products, and its low level of ensure that achievement of agreed milestones from the SSL companies, and 31 external reliance on individual key customers and and key objectives are tracked and followed up recruits.
The Group ended the year with a low suppliers, the Directors consider that its appropriately.
Senior business employees are level of vacancies within the T400 of 12, or exposure to black swan type events affecting appointed to lead the team to achieve the around 2.5% of the measured group.
There is a comprehensive set of policies The principal and specific risks that are, in the The combination of the Groups strategic governing employment and employees to opinion of the Directors, those that pose the reorganisation, and the systems and ensure that the Group remains an attractive most significant threat to the delivery of the operational changes, could result in employer.
The Group is committed to the Groups strategic objectives are as follows: sub-optimal implementations and reduced principle of equal opportunity in employment: focus due to conflicting demands for no applicant or employee receives less Market Risks management attention.
favourable treatment on the grounds of Competition, economic conditions and nationality, age, gender, religion or disability.
customer consolidation translates into A senior programme leader reporting directly It is essential to the continued improvement in increasing pressure on pricing and promotion to the CEO will ensure proper clarity and efficiency and productivity that each employee levels and market growth rates, especially documentation of the new operating model as understands the Groups strategies, policies and in Europe.
well as alignment and co-ordination between procedures.
Open and regular communication the programme workstreams.
The Group seeks to mitigate this risk through with employees at all levels is an essential part active category, brand and customer Information technology systems may be of the management process.
The Board relationship management programmes disrupted or may fail, interfering with the encourages employees to become Shareholders supported by ongoing investment into new Groups ability to conduct its business.
and participate in the employee share product development.
The Group has disaster recovery plans in place The expiry of the Groups exclusive licence for which are tested periodically.
It also invests in The Group relies on its brand names and Suboxone in the United States in 2009 and the security measures and anti-virus software to intellectual property.
All of the Groups rest of the world in 2016 is likely to expose the safeguard against this threat.
major brand names are protected by nationally business to competition from generic variants.
Product quality failures could potentially result The Group also maintains patents or other The Group has developed a new and patented in the undermining of consumer confidence in protection for its significant product sublingual film delivery method for this the Groups products and brands.
formulations, designs and processing product which partially mitigates the risk The Group has a comprehensive set of policies, methods.
The Group aggressively monitors exposure from the expected generic variant processes and systems to manage and monitor these protections and pursues any apparent entry against tablets.
quality assurance, including an appropriately infringements.
Operational Risks resourced global quality audit team.
RELATIONSHIPS AND PRINCIPAL RISKS Business continuity plans prove insufficient to Regulatory decisions and changes in the The Groups key external relationships are protect the business in the face of a significant legal and regulatory environment could limit broadly based with no single customer and unforeseen supply disruption.
2011 13 Business Review 2011 continued The Group has an ongoing regulatory under the close control of the Chief Financial facilities and central cash and investment, are excellence programme.
It employs senior Officer and is subject to periodic independent considered sufficient to meet the Groups regulatory and legal specialists at a Group, reviews and audits, both internal and external.
regional and local level who are responsible for Foreign Exchange Risk Funds over and above those required for setting policies and ensuring that all employees The Group publishes its financial statements in short-term working capital purposes by the are aware of, and comply with, both Group Sterling but conducts business in many foreign overseas businesses are generally remitted to policies and with the laws and regulations currencies.
As a result, it is subject to foreign GT.
The Group uses the remittances to settle relevant to their roles.
currency exchange risk due to the effects that obligations, repay borrowings, or in the event Compliance with the 2011 UK Bribery Act.
exchange rate movements have on the of a surplus, invest in short-term instruments translation of the results and the underlying net issued by institutions with a BBB rating A comprehensive prevention programme has assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
been put in place, including the refreshing of the Groups Code of Conduct, the issuing of a The Groups policy is to align interest costs Capital Management new anti-bribery policy to all employees and an and operating profit of its major currencies in The Groups objectives for managing capital are extension of the annual online training order to provide some protection against the to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as undertaken by all employees to include a translation exposure on foreign currency a going concern, in order to provide returns for mandatory test on the new policy.
The Group may undertake Shareholders and benefits for other borrowings and other hedging methods in the stakeholders, and to maintain an efficient Financial Risks currencies of the countries where most of its capital structure to optimise the cost of capital.
Tax authorities are becoming more aggressive assets are located.
in disputing historically accepted tax structures In maintaining an appropriate capital structure and pursuing compensation for retroactive For transactions, it is the Groups policy to and providing returns for Shareholders, in 2011 changes to tax law.
monitor and, only where appropriate, hedge its the Company has provided returns to foreign currency transaction exposures.
These Shareholders in the form of dividends, current The Group is proactive in responding to tax transaction exposures arise mainly from foreign details of which are included in the Financial authorities, either through robust defence or currency receipts and payments for goods and Review for the year on page 16. through negotiated settlement.
The Board of services, and from the remittance of foreign Directors consider that tax exposures are The Group monitors net debt total borrowings currency dividends and loans.
The local business adequately provided for, whilst recognising that less cash and cash equivalents: short-term units enter into forward foreign exchange an element of risk will always remain.
available for sale financial assets and financing contracts with GT to manage these exposures, derivative financial instruments and at the year COMPLIANCE AND ROUTINE RISKS where practical and allowed by local end the Group had net debt of 1,795m 2010: In order to manage the more numerous and regulations.
GT manages the Group exposures, net debt of 2,011m.
The Group does not routine risks, the Group maintains a complete and hedges the net position where possible, actively monitor a gearing ratio, but seeks to and robust governance framework.
This using spot and forward foreign currency pay down net debt using cash generated by the consists of a full set of policies, processes and exchange contracts.
business to maintain an appropriate level of systems covering all aspects of compliance, Market Price Risk financial flexibility.
both with international and local laws, as The Group is not exposed to equity securities well as with the Groups stated minimum Details of numerical disclosures relating to the price risk.
Due to the nature of its business the control standards.
Groups financial risk management are included Group is exposed to commodity price risk in note 15 to the Financial Statements on pages Management provides primary assurance by related to the production or packaging of 58 to 62. driving risk compliance through their respective finished goods such as oil-related, and a diverse area, regional or functional responsibility.
This is range of other, raw materials.
This risk is, Environmental, Social and Governance done through regular and detailed business however, managed primarily through mediumESG Matters and Reputational Risks reviews.
Secondary assurance is provided term contracts with certain key suppliers and is In line with the requirements of the Companies independently through a combination of not viewed as being a material risk.
Act 2006, a rationale has been developed internal and external audit covering all aspects and a review undertaken to determine what Interest Rate Risk of the Groups operations.
information to include in this Report as The Group has both interest-bearing and non necessary for an understanding of the Financial Risk Management interest-bearing assets and liabilities.
The Group development, performance and position of the The Groups multi-national operations expose manages its interest expense rate exposure business of the Group relating to environmental it to a variety of financial risks that include the using a mixture of fixed rate and floating rate matters including the impact of the Groups effects of changes in foreign currency exchange debt.
The Group manages its interest rate business on the environment, its employees, rates foreign exchange risk, market prices, exposure on its gross financial assets by using and social and community issues referred to interest rates, credit risks and liquidity.
The fixed rate term deposits.
in this report as sustainability issues.
Group has in place a risk management Credit Risk programme that uses foreign currency financial The Board of Directors considers and takes The Group has no significant concentrations of instruments, including debt, and other account of the significance of sustainability credit risk.
Financial institution counterparties instruments, to limit the impact of these risks matters, their potential risks to the business of are subject to approval under the Groups on the financial performance of the Group.
the Group and the opportunities to enhance counterparty risk policy and such approval is value that may arise from an appropriate The Groups financing and financial risk limited to financial institutions with a BBB response, including risks relating to management activities are centralised into rating or above.
The amount of exposure to environmental impacts, employees, society Group Treasury GT to achieve benefits of scale any individual counterparty is subject to a limit and communities, as well as reputational risks.
GT manages financial exposures of defined within the counterparty risk policy, The Board undertakes a formal review of the Group centrally in a manner consistent with which is reassessed annually by the Board.
sustainability matters at least annually.
GT manages only Liquidity Risk includes providing oversight to ensure that the those risks and flows generated by the The Group has bilateral credit facilities with Group has in place effective policies, systems underlying commercial operations and high-quality international banks.
All of these and procedures for managing sustainability speculative transactions are not undertaken.
facilities have similar or equivalent terms and matters and mitigating significant sustainability The Board of Directors reviews and agrees conditions, and have a financial covenant, risks.
The Board believes that it receives policies, guidelines and authority levels for all which is not expected to restrict the Groups adequate information on sustainability matters areas of treasury activity and individually future operations.
The committed borrowing and their potential risks and opportunities to approves significant activities.
GT operates facilities, together with available uncommitted the business of the Group.
14 2011 The CEO has specific responsibility for determined by the Groups industrial sectors the product lifecycle for its global product sustainability.
As part of established household, health & personal care and the portfolio.
This includes amongst other things: management processes, which include products the Group manufactures and sells.
the raw and packaging materials provided by its performance management systems and The Groups strategic priorities remain: suppliers: the Groups own direct manufacturing appropriate remuneration incentives, senior and other operations: transportation of both 1.
To achieve continual improvement in our management reports directly to the CEO on raw materials and finished products: the retail overall environmental performance, focusing sustainability matters on a regular basis.
sale of its products: consumers use of its on those issues where we can make a products: and the disposal recycling of those Our Director of Global Sustainability, significant difference: and products and their packaging.
The Group Environment, Health and Safety manages the 2.
To manage our business in a socially and publicly launched this initiative in November sustainability programme on a day-to-day basis.
2007, comprising its Carbon20 programme and Our Senior Vice President SVP of Corporate The Group focuses on a number of specific the target to reduce its global products total Communications and Affairs is secretary to the topics to deliver against the strategic priorities.
Carbon footprint across their complete lifecycle Groups Executive Committee.
She is These include, but are not limited to: by 20% per dose by 2020, versus a 2007 responsible for the Groups community baseline www.
involvement and much of the Groups external Supply Chain Responsibility stakeholder engagement.
The R&D function Most product, component and raw material Health and Safety Management includes the Regulatory, Safety & Environmental supply chains present a number of potential Accidents caused through a failure of the RSE services group, which is responsible for reputational risks relating to: labour standards: Groups safety management systems could ensuring that our products meet regulatory health, safety and environmental standards: potentially lead to loss of life for one or more requirements and are safe for their intended raw material sourcing: and the social, ethical of the Groups employees.
Our SVP Human Resources HR and the and environmental performance of third party an external certification to OHSAS 18001 for global HR function manage the Groups human manufacturers and other suppliers.
The the Groups management of health and resources, employee remuneration and Groups Global Manufacturing Standard safety issues.
benefits, employment practices, organisational GMS mandates minimum requirements Progress to Date development, training and elements of health regarding employment arrangements, The Groups most recent Sustainability Report, and safety eg.
labour standards and health, safety and published in October 2011, describes the environmental management, in line with Key areas of sustainability internal control and progress made in key sustainability topics.
international guidelines, for the Groups own performance, including sustainability This includes: manufacturing sites and selected third party disclosures, are independently reviewed and manufacturers and suppliers.
Management By 2010, the third year of the Groups verified by both internal and external processes and controls in place include Group, Carbon20 programme, the total Carbon organisations, including Internal Audit, and area and regional monitoring and assessment footprint of the Group measured per dose their findings regularly reported to senior of compliance with the GMS and other of product reduced by 15%.
This 15% management, the CEO, the Audit Committee requirements.
reduction in carbon emissions per dose and the Board.
The Board has identified and means the Group has achieved threeassessed the range of sustainability and Climate Change quarters of its Carbon20 target for 2020 associated reputational risks and concluded The effects of climate change could disrupt the in the third year of the programme: that there are limited material risks to the Groups supply chain by affecting its ability to Groups long-term and short-term value arising source raw materials, manufacture products Planting 4.5 million native trees in Canada.
from sustainability matters, other than potential and distribute products.
Due to the Groups This equates to an offset that effectively risks common to similarly sized businesses industry sectors and product categories the makes the Groups manufacturing operating in its industry sectors and with Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions originating carbon neutral: similarly well-known brands.
from energy use at its direct operations are of A 39% reduction in manufacturing energy medium-to-low impact, in comparison to those The Group has a full set of policies, per unit of production since 2000: of other similarly-sized companies.
This is as programmes and control arrangements, assessed for example in recent reports of the A 45% reduction in greenhouse gas building on its central Code of Conduct, that independent Carbon Disclosure Project emissions from manufacturing sites address the full range of sustainability matters CDP, www.
net : specifically, the since 2000: and reputational risks.
The Code itself is the GHG emissions from the Groups global subject of an annual training and awareness A 17% reduction per unit of production in manufacturing operations are circa.
250,000 programme, and is covered by an annual review water use since 2000: tonnes COequivalents per annum.
2 and certification process carried out by Internal A 19% reduction per unit of production of Audit and the Legal Department.
The Code and The Group has taken a leadership position with waste since 2000: other Group policies relating to sustainability regard to its products total Carbon footprint, can be found at www.
by seeking to understand, measure and reduce No RB employee fatalities in 2010: the GHG emissions generated by all stages in Sustainability Focus Areas The Group has identified the material sustainability issues for the business.
This Significant Aspects of our Sustainability Social & Ethical process includes an assessment of the ways in Programme Pr oducts which improve hygiene which the Groups activities materially impact and health the environment, society and the economy see Environmental Product safety and quality panel, bottom right, any potential sustainability Energy use air emissions and their Health and safety at work risks, the issues of greatest concern for the contribution to climate change Employment practices and human rights Groups stakeholders, the issues that society Raw material use and supply chain A responsible and ethical supply chain has identified as important through regulation sustainability Community involvement and international standards and those issues Water use and discharges Ethical business conduct covered by existing policies and commitments, Waste and packaging reduction, re-use such as the Carbon20 programme.
and recycling Economic Product use and product packaging Economic value and cash value added, Strategic Sustainability Priorities disposal generated and shared with employees, The aspects the Group has identified are Indirect supply chain impacts Shareholders and society common to many FMCG companies with Indir ect economic impact well-known brands and are essentially 2011 15 Business Review 2011 continued A 90% reduction in accident rates since of outstanding matters in 2010.
Capital for such investigations, where appropriate.
2001, including a 3% reduction in lost expenditure was lower than the prior year at Where it is too early to determine the likely working day accident frequency between 205m 2010: 367m, due to the buy back of outcome of these matters, the Directors have 2009 and 2010: and the remaining sales, marketing and distribution made no provision for such potential liabilities.
rights to Suboxone, Subutex and Temgesic in Continued support of the international During 2011, one case has been settled with Europe and the rest of the world and the charity Save the Children, saving 150,000 the German Federal Cartel Office for 24m.
investment in certain health & personal care lives in 2010 making a total of 600,000 brands from Combe Incorporated taking place The Group from time to time is involved in since 2006 and benefiting over 21,000 in 2010. discussions in relation to ongoing tax matters children in 2010 through the Groups in a number of jurisdictions around the world.
direct funding of the Save the Children Net Debt: At the end of the year net debt Where appropriate, the Directors make Emergency Fund.
was 1,795m 2010: net debt 2,011m, a provisions based on their assessment of decrease of 216m.
This reflected net cash The corporate responsibility section on the each case.
flow from operations of 1,581m, offset by Groups website www.
com Ourthe acquisition of Paras for 448m net of On 23 February 2011 the Group received a civil responsibility and the Groups annual cash acquired in April, and the payment of claim for damages from the Department of Sustainability Reports available at two dividends totalling 873m.
The Group Health and others in the United Kingdom www.
com provide further information on regularly reviews its banking arrangements regarding alleged anti-competitive activity the Groups policies, systems and procedures and currently has adequate facilities available involving the Gaviscon brand.
The claim is for managing sustainability matters and the to meet liquidity needs, as well as access to under review and although it is at an early risks and opportunities that may arise from commercial paper and a history of strong stage, the Directors do not believe that any them, including: the extent to which the Group cash flows from operations.
potential impact would be material to the complies with those policies, systems and Group financial statements.
procedures: Key Performance Indicators KPIs : Exceptional Items: In 2010 a pre-tax and its sustainability programmes, targets and exceptional charge of 250m was announced PROSPECTS progress.
The Group reports in line with the in respect of the acquisition of SSL and further 2012 will be a year of transition and investment Global Reporting Initiatives Sustainability reconfiguration of the Group.
In 2011 a pre-tax for RB, the details of which are explained on Reporting Guidelines Version 3.0 GRI G3 charge of 96m was incurred 2010: 104m, pages 3 to 8.
We continue to be committed to www.
A Content Index of which 92m 2010: 101m is reflected in out-performing our markets growth and and Application Level Table is provided at reported operating profit and 4m 2010: 3m therefore target the following: www.
Selected data in the annual is included in net interest.
The remainder of the Net revenue growth excluding RB Sustainability Report is assured by external restructuring charge, of approximately 50m, is Pharmaceuticals of 200 bps versus our auditors.
For more information refer to the expected to be incurred in 2012. market growth.
We expect market growth in latest report, released October 2011, at Balance Sheet: At the end of 2011, the Group 2012 to be 1-2%.
had Shareholders funds of 5,781m 2010: Operating margins excluding RB FINANCIAL REVIEW 5,130m, an increase of 13%.
Net debt was Pharmaceuticals to be maintained.
Basis of Preparation: The financial 1,795m 2010: net debt 2,011m and total information is prepared in accordance with capital employed in the business was 7,576m The likelihood of generic competition to IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and 2010: 7,141m.
Suboxone makes setting total Company IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting inclusive of RB Pharmaceuticals targets This finances non-current assets of 11,188m Standards Board, and with the accounting impossible at this time.
735m is property, plant and equipment, the Cautionary Note Concerning Forward Constant Exchange: Movements in exchange remainder being goodwill, other intangible Looking Statements This document contains forward looking statements, rates relative to Sterling affect actual results as assets, deferred tax, available for sale financial including statements with respect to the financial reported.
The constant exchange rate basis assets and other receivables.
The Group has net condition, results of operations and business of Reckitt adjusts the comparative to exclude such working capital of 910m 2010: 925m, Benckiser and certain of the plans and objectives of movements, to show the underlying growth of current provisions of 60m 2010: 164m and the Company with respect to these items.
long-term liabilities other than borrowings of forward looking statements are made pursuant to the 2,642m 2010: 2,555m.
Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private Net Finance Expense: Net finance expense Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In particular, was 19m 2010: net finance income 6m, The Groups financial ratios remain strong.
all statements that express forecasts, expectations and reflecting the net debt position of the Group Return on Shareholders funds net income projections with respect to future matters, including during 2011.
The 2011 net finance expense divided by total Shareholders funds was trends in results of operations, margins, growth rates, includes a 4m exceptional charge in respect of 30.3% on a reported basis and 31.4% on an overall market trends, the impact of interest or financing costs associated with the acquisition adjusted basis 2010: 30.6% on a reported exchange rates, the availability of financing to the of SSL.
basis and 32.4% on an adjusted basis.
Company, anticipated cost savings or synergies and the completion of strategic transactions are forward Tax: The underlying effective tax rate was 26% Dividends: The Board of Directors looking statements.
recommends a final dividend of 70 pence per are not guarantees of future performance: by their share 2010: 65 pence, an increase of 8%, to nature, forward looking statements involve known Net Working Capital: Inventories, short-term give a full year dividend of 125 pence per share and unknown risk and uncertainty and other factors receivables and short-term liabilities excluding 2010: 115 pence, an overall increase of 9%.
because they relate to events and depend on borrowings and provisions of minus 910m circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a The dividend, if approved by Shareholders at represented a 15m decline compared to the number of factors, discussed in this report, that could the AGM on 3 May 2012, will be paid on 31 December 2010 level, due mainly to an cause actual results and developments to differ 31 May to Shareholders on the register at the increase in inventories and a decrease in tax materially from those expressed or implied by these record date of 24 February.
forward looking statements, including many factors date is 22 February and the last date for outside Reckitt Benckisers control.
Past performance Cash Flow: Cash generated from operating election for the share alternative to the cannot be relied upon as a guide to future activities was 2,430m 2010: 2,215m and dividend is 10 May.
The final dividend will be performance.
Each forward looking statement speaks net cash flow from operations was 1,581m accrued once approved by Shareholders.
as of the date of the particular statement.
Net interest paid was 13m Contingent Liabilities: The Group is involved 2010: net interest received 8m and tax in a number of investigations by competition payments decreased by 2m to 677m 2010: authorities in Europe and has made provisions 679m following the settlement of a number 16 2011 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The Board and the Executive Committee have identified a number of Key Performance Indicators KPIs that are most relevant to the Group and are used to measure performance.
KPI 2011 2010 Comments Net revenue growth 4% 6% Measures the increase in sales of the Group % like-for-like growth of net revenue at constant exchange rates Powerbrands 70% 69% Measures the growth and importance of the % of total net revenue from 19 Powerbrands Groups flagship brands Gross margin % 59.7% 60.6% Measures the resources available for reinvestment Gross profit as % of total net revenue or profit growth Media investment 10.4% 10.7% Measures the rate of reinvestment in the Media investment as % of total net revenue Groups brands via media Operating margin % 26.2% 26.4% Measures the profitability of the Group Operating profit as % of total net revenue EPS fully diluted 247.1p 226.5p Measures the increase in profit per share of the Group % change in EPS fully diluted 9% 16% Net cash flow 1,581m 1,386m Measures how the Group converts its profits into cash See page 40 14% -23% Net working capital -910m -925m Measures the ability of the Group to finance defined as inventories, short-term receivables and -9.6% -10.9% its expansion and release cash from working capital short-term liabilities excluding borrowings and provisions as % of total net revenue Management turnover 13% 12% % of T400 management that have left the Group % of total net revenue excl.
1 71% 73% Measures the health of the Groups or No.
2 brand positions brand market positions Adjusted to exclude the impact of exceptional items.
