Governance Articles of association Other statutory disclosures The articles of association set up the internal regulations of the Directors report company and cover such matters as the rights of shareholders and The directors submit to the members their annual report and the conduct of the board and general meetings.
accounts for the year ended 31 December 2011.
In accordance Under the articles, the directors are responsible for the with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and the UK management of the business of the company and may exercise all Listing Authoritys Listing and Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the powers of the company subject to the provisions of relevant the Governance report set out on pages 22 to 51 comprises the statutes and the companys articles of association.
For example, directors report, together with other sections relating to principal the articles contain specific provisions and restrictions regarding activities and business review listed below which are incorporated the companys power to borrow money.
into this report by reference.
Powers relating to the issuing of shares are also included in the articles of association and such authorities are renewed by Principal activities shareholders each year at the annual general meeting.
The articles Rentokil Initial plc is the holding company of a group which through do not contain special control rights or restrictions on transfer or its operating businesses in some 60 countries provides a range limitations on the holding of ordinary shares and no requirements of principally business to business support services.
A summary for the prior approval of any transfers.
No person holds securities description of the groups principal activities is given on the inside in the company carrying special rights with regard to control of the front cover and the principal subsidiary undertakings and joint company.
The company is not aware of any agreements between ventures of the company are shown on page 102. holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Business review The directors report includes a description of the companys The articles of association also give power to the board to appoint current business model providing an explanation of the basis and replace directors, but also require directors to retire and on which the group generates value over the long-term and submit themselves for re-election at the first annual general strategy for delivering its objectives.
The information that fulfils meeting following the appointment and for re-election by rotation the business review requirements can be found in the following although directors now submit themselves for re-election annually.
sections: The articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Statement by the chairman and chief executive pages 1 to 2 In accordance with the articles of association directors can be Progress on key objectives pages 2 to 4 appointed or removed by the board or shareholders in general Strategy update pages 6 to 7 meeting.
Amendments to the articles of association have to be Business overview on pages 8 to 9 approved by at least 75% of those voting in person or by proxy at the general meeting.
Subject to company law and the articles Business review on pages 10 to 14 of association the directors may exercise all the powers of the Risks and uncertainties on pages 15 to 18 company and may delegate authority to committees and day-toFinancial review on pages 19 to 21 day management and decision-making to individual executive directors.
Copies of the articles of association are available Financial risks in note 21 on pages 89 to 92 upon request and are displayed on the companys website at www.
com Results and dividends The adjusted operating profit for the financial year ended Auditors independence and objectivity 31 December 2011 was 224.7 million 2010: 239.3 million.
In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, The directors recommend payment of a final dividend in respect a resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the of the year to 31 December 2011 of 1.33p per ordinary share, which company and to authorise the directors to determine their subject to approval at the annual general meeting on 1 May 2012, remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming annual will be paid on 15 May 2012 to shareholders on the register on general meeting.
In concluding that KPMG Audit Plc should be reappointed as auditors at the 2012 annual general meeting, the board and the audit committee took into account the need to ensure that auditor independence was safeguarded.
The committee also took into account the review undertaken of the effectiveness of the audit process as well as input from executive management.
38 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
