co. uk business and financial review Ed Williams Nick McKittrick Managing director Chief Operating Officer and Finance director Rightmove is the method of choice by which the vast majority What we do and the keys to success of people in Britain look for their next home.
In 2011, activity Rightmove provides estate agents, lettings agents and on our website increased significantly to new record levels, new homes developers access to the largest audience of our lead over our nearest competitor widened to its greatest UK home movers by enabling them to advertise all their ever and we maintained our status as one of the top ten UK properties on Rightmove for a monthly subscription fee.
Customers can also take advantage of a wider set of Revenues, profits and earnings per share EPS were all advertising products to promote their properties, brand significantly higher than in any previous year in Rightmoves and proposition.
history and reflect another year of strong growth.
The growth Rightmoves success comes from its market leading was almost entirely as a result of our existing agents and position with UK home movers and the value we add to our developers spending more with us.
The demand for our range advertisers by giving them the ability to reach the largest of additional advertising products was particularly strong with audience of UK home movers.
We believe the foundations spending on these products up 43% over 2010. of our success come from: Our advertising base of estate agents, lettings agents and sustained investment in serving home movers new home developers grew by 1%.
This is in spite of 2011 sustained investment in our brand being yet another challenging year for the housing market, with sustained support for our advertisers transaction volumes in 2011 being little different from 2008, innovation in advertising products.
2009 and 2010, which is around half the historic levels.
We do not anticipate that 2012 housing transactions will be at Sustained investment in serving home movers significantly higher levels.
Home movers use Rightmove because it represents the easiest and most familiar way in which to view the best Our 2011 results information about properties currently available on the market.
The ease of use and quality of information we provide to 1 underlying operating profit was up 23% to 69.4m home movers results not just from the scale of our investment 2010: 56.6m.
Organic revenue growth drove overall in the Rightmove.
co. uk website but also the experience we revenue to 97.0m 2010: 81.6m, which was up 19% have built up over more than a decade.
1 on the prior year, and with our underlying cost base rising During 2011 we have continued to invest in serving home by only 11% we have again demonstrated the scalability movers.
We launched a brand new version of the iPhone App, and profitability of the Rightmove business model.
which now includes key features such as synchronisation with We returned all the cash flow generated by the business the main website and map based searching.
This App has during the year to our shareholders through dividends and been downloaded around 1.5m times.
We launched a new share buy backs.
The contingent element from the sale of search dedicated to commercial property and a market leading Holiday Lettings HLL in June 2010 contributed a further sold prices research tool which makes use of our unrivalled 4.9m in cash.
For the new homes market we launched 4 business review corporate governance financial statements rightmove plc annual report 2011 Rightmove is the method of choice by which the vast majority of people in Britain look for their next home.
In January 2012, we served over 1bn pages of property information, increasing our position to the seventh most popular UK website.
Source: Rightmove and Experian Hitwise, January 2012 development specific micro-sites which provide home movers unpaid links from other sites.
The remainder comes from with more comprehensive information on the development and organic search, for which we do not pay.
We continue to exploit opportunities within social media, These investments and many others contributed to an for example, via our like and share buttons to Facebook.
increase in home mover usage of Rightmove.
Page The Rightmove brand was seen over 135m times on Facebook impressions were up 22% to 9.3bn 2010: 7.6bn and in 2011.
We also use social media to engage directly with according to Experian Hitwise, Rightmove served almost home movers through initiatives such as our Seller of the double the number of pages of property information than all Month competition and via conversation on both our the other fourteen hundred UK property websites served in Facebook and Twitter branded channels.
Whilst these provide total and around ten times that of our nearest competitor.
effective additional channels to reach home movers, there is In addition, we saw a big increase in the volume of home still no evidence that home hunting activity itself is migrating to hunting activity on our mobile platforms in 2011 with the social media environments.
number of searches up over 150% on 2010.
Sustained support for our advertisers Sustained investment in our brand Our programme of free seminars for agents took us to Rightmove benefits from more than ten years of investment in 30 venues across the UK in 2011.
Over 5,000 agents our brand and we continue to invest to maintain the strength have taken up the invitation to attend these events in the of our brand recognition and our market leading position.
The seminars aim to help our members to be The launch of our new positioning Britain moves at more successful and to get the most from their Rightmove Rightmove builds on the fact that Rightmove is part of the membership, by providing local market insight and fabric of everyday life.
This is territory that is uniquely ours and Rightmove expertise.
They also enable us to share best is borne out by the sheer volume of traffic on Rightmove.
practice in other areas such as how agents can use social We ran TV campaigns in January and February, in April, media to their advantage.
September and October, and at Christmas and into 2012.
In the current market, a common issue for agents is how to This is the most extensive coverage during any year in our persuade house vendors to price their properties competitively.
The campaigns appear to have helped generate even To support agents with this message we ran a consumer greater awareness of Rightmove amongst home movers as campaign during the third quarter of 2011 in which we well as delivering on our commitment to our advertisers to highlighted the fact that only half the properties placed on the ensure that their properties get the best exposure.
market actually sell and we urged vendors not to leave it to Rightmoves investment in its brand is a key defence chance.
The campaign ran on local radio and the Rightmove against new entrants and consolidation within our industry.
website and included a short video with helpful guidance to We continue to receive around four out of five visits to our vendors on how to ensure that their property was saleable, website from people typing in the Rightmove name, using which was viewed nearly 60,000 times.
our mobile platforms, responding to our email alerts, or using 5
