business and financial review introduction Right: Geoff Drabble Chief executive Far right: Ian Robson Finance director Ashtead has now traded successfully through the recent economic downturn retaining its position as the worlds second largest equipment rental group.
More importantly, we believe that the ability of our model to offer attractive returns to our investors over the cycle, as well as interesting and varied careers to our staff and a valued service to our customers, continues to be demonstrated.
Given how difficult end construction markets in the US and UK have been, that is a significant achievement.
The flexibility of our business model combined with our efficient financing means that we are well positioned to benefit as end markets, particularly in the US, begin their cyclical recovery.
Leading indicators show the US construction market reaching the inflection point in summer or autumn 2011 and rebuilding from there.
Whilst the UK construction market is likely to be challenging for some years yet, we are confident that it will follow the US into cyclical recovery in due course.
As regular readers of this report will know, ours is an inherently cyclical business and we aim to manage it as such and therefore to plan for both good times and bad.
We planned carefully for the recession we just experienced, particularly with regard to the terms of our debt and to our ability to manage the levels of our capital expenditure and hence to generate substantial cash flow.
As a result, we are emerging from recession in better shape than many of our competitors, some of whom have not survived, whilst others have had to materially reduce the size of their business.
We have retained the infrastructure necessary to service almost all the markets in which we traded at peak in 2008 and our US rental fleet is, at 30 April 2011, only 9% smaller than it was at that peak.
Equipment rental remains a relatively young industry and we are still a comparatively young company.
We believe there are significant opportunities to be had, especially in the US where rental penetration remains at around only 40% but growing compared to the 7075% penetration in the more mature UK market.
We are determined to take maximum advantage of the next cycle and of the network, fleet, finances and human capital that we have preserved through the recession.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 7 Returning to growth understanding our markets enabling the structural shift creating opportunities Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
