6 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Chairmans statement A very strong performance for the year Meyer Kahn Chairman While focusing relentlessly on our financial results, were also pursuing our vision of being the most admired company in the global beer industry.
Dear Shareholder, After the completion of a number of key capacity expansion projects, capital expenditure was lower SABMillers financial performance for the year was than in the prior year at US$1,315 million.
very strong, benefiting from a sustained focus on our strategic priorities right across our business.
Net debt decreased by US$1,307 million to Brand equities and sales execution drove profitable US$7,091 million, mainly as a result of the robust volume growth and, while we maintained focus cash inflows.
The balance sheet was further oncost management, we continued to increase strengthened as the gearing ratio fell from 40.8% investment behind our local and global brand inthe prior year to 31.2%.
The board has recommended a final dividend of Results and dividend 61.5 US cents per share to be paid to shareholders Total beverage volumes of 270 million hectolitres on 12 August 2011.
This brings the total dividend for were 3% ahead of the prior year on an organic the year to 81 US cents, an increase of 13 cents basis, with lager volumes up 2%.
Volume growth 19% over the prior year.
was also accompanied by share gains in a number of markets.
Group revenue grew by 7% 5% on an Operational highlights organic, constant currency basis after stripping out While economic conditions improved across currency benefits, driven by a favourable brand mix LatinAmerica and Africa, consumer demand and price increases in the current and prior year.
remained under pressure in Europe and the USA.
Nevertheless, each of our businesses improved its Reported earnings before interest, tax and financial performance and delivered higher EBITA amortisation EBITA grew by 15% 12% on an than in the prior year.
A pleasing feature was the 120 basis points bps growth in Latin America produced EBITA growth of 17% EBITA margin to 17.8%, benefiting from our revenue 11% on an organic, constant currency basis.
growth and a small reduction in raw material costs.
Thiswas despite lager volumes remaining level Profit before tax was up 24%.
withthe prior year on an organic basis.
EBITA growth resulted from selective price increases, Adjusted earnings were 20% higher as a result of mostly in the second half of the prior year, along the increase in EBITA, lower finance costs and an with lower raw material costs and an ongoing effective tax rate of 28.2%.
Adjusted earnings per focuson reducing fixed costs.
In Europe, EBITA increased by 2% 4% on a The group generated US$2,488 million of free cash constant currency basis, despite lager volumes flow, an increase of US$460 million over the prior falling by 3% amid difficult economic and industry year.
At US$66 million, cash inflows from working conditions including competitor discounting.
capital continued the positive trend of the previous Theincrease in profitability was driven by cost year, albeit at a slower rate.
efficiencies and lower raw material costs.
