Business Review Our business, marketplace and other factors that could affect us We look at our business in relation to issues in the wider marketplace in which we operate.
Sales and marketing Sales trends Smith & Nephews customers are the providers of medical and surgical Smith & Nephews business segments participate in the global medical services worldwide.
In certain parts of the world, including the UK, devices market and share a common focus on the repair of the human much of Continental Europe, Canada and Japan, these are largely body.
Smith & Nephews principal geographic markets are in the government organisations funded by tax revenues.
In the US, the established healthcare economies of the US, Europe, Japan, Canada, Groups major customers are public and private hospitals, which Australia and New Zealand.
receive revenue from private health insurance and government These markets are characterised by increased longevity, more active reimbursement programmes.
Medicare is the major source of lifestyles, obesity, increased afuence and an increase in the average reimbursement in the US, for knee and hip reconstruction procedures age of the population caused by the immediate post-World War II baby and for wound healing treatment regimes.
Together these factors Competition exists among healthcare providers to gain patients on the have created significant demand for more effective healthcare products basis of quality, service and price.
Providers are under pressure to which deliver improved outcomes through technology advances.
reduce the total cost of healthcare delivery.
There has been some Furthermore, pressure to resist increases in overall healthcare spending consolidation in the Groups customer base, as well as amongst the has led healthcare providers to demand products which minimise the Groups competitors, and these trends are expected to continue in the length of hospital stays and use of surgeon and nursing resources.
Smith & Nephew competes against both local and Increasing patient awareness of available healthcare treatments multinational corporations, including some with greater financial, through the internet and direct-to-customer advertising has led to marketing and other resources.
someincreased patient inuence over product purchasing decisions.
The Groups business reects a wide range of distribution channels, For a description of the impact on each business segment refer to the purchasing agents and buying entities in over 90 countries worldwide.
Market and competition sections under Business segment reviews on The largest single customers worldwide are purchasing groups in the pages 30 to 40.
US and the UK that represented 6% and 5% respectively of the Groups worldwide revenuein 2011.
Manufacturing, supply & distribution In the US, the Groups products are marketed directly to healthcare The Group has a central Global Operations function which continues to providers, hospitals and other healthcare facilities with each business implement Lean Manufacturing throughout the factories and the supply segment operating dedicated sales forces.
The US sales forces consist chain which is designed to improve and sustain higher levels of of a mixture of independent contract workers and employees.
Sales productivity, quality, service and efficiency.
agents are contractually prohibited from selling products that compete Core competencies include: materials technology: high precision with Smith & Nephew products.
Orthopaedics and Endoscopy machining in Orthopaedics and Endoscopy: and high-volume, products are principally shipped and invoiced to healthcare providers, automated manufacturing in Advanced Wound Management.
hospitals and other healthcare facilities.
Certain Advanced Wound Management products are shipped and invoiced to wholesale Each business segment purchases raw materials, components, distributors, others are consigned to distributors that lease the devices nished products and packaging materials from certain key suppliers.
to healthcare providers, hospitals and other healthcare facilities and These principally include metal forgings and stampings for end-users.
In most other Established Markets, each business segment Orthopaedics, optical and electronic sub-components and nished typically manages employee sales forces directly, and also ships and goods for Endoscopy, active ingredients and nished goods for invoices products both directly to healthcare providers, hospitals and Advanced Wound Management and packaging materials across all other healthcare facilities and to wholesale distributors.
Suppliers are selected, and contracts negotiated, by a centralised Group procurement team wherever possible, with a view to In Emerging Markets and International Markets the Group operates ensure value for money based on the total spending across the Group.
through direct selling and marketing operations, and through distributors.
In these markets, Orthopaedics and Endoscopy frequently share sales resources.
The Advanced Wound Management sales force may be separate where it calls on different customers.
