spirent communications plc annual report 2011 Chief Executive Officers review Growth was driven by our Performance Analysis division which saw strong demand for its wireless, data center, high speed Ethernet and positioning test products, especially in the Asia Pacific region.
2011 was another successful year for Spirent, despite the ongoing economic uncertainty in many parts of the world.
Our business drivers remain positive, as the telecom and IT industries continue to invest in order to meet the demand of consumers and enterprises for anytime, anywhere access to data, applications and services with excellent Quality of Experience.
Focused execution of our strategy enabled us to again deliver profitable growth, increasing sales by 10 per cent and adjusted basic earnings per share by 17 per cent, a financial performance which remains amongst the best in our industry.
Growth was driven by our Performance Analysis division which saw strong demand for its wireless, data center, high speed Ethernet and positioning test products, especially in the Asia Pacific region.
This was partially Bill Burns offset by some weakness in our Service Assurance division as a result Chief Executive Officer of cautious carrier investment in wireline networks, as well as in our Systems division due to changes in US Medicare programmes.
The rapid increase in mobile broadband subscribers and mobile internet traffic is forcing carriers to rethink their network architectures and business models, seeking new revenue streams through the monetisation of services.
As carriers drive the convergence of networks and services using technologies such as IP and Ethernet, network equipment manufacturers are under pressure to accelerate delivery of converged wireline and wireless platforms with everincreasing scale.
A plethora of new mobile devices is also coming to market that allow subscribers to take advantage of the latest applications and services enabled by 4G LTE.
Our uniquely broad portfolio of solutions that test mobile networks, services and devices, as well as the positioning technologies that enable location based services, saw significant growth in 2011.
