spirent communications plc annual report 2011 Report of the directors The directors present their Annual Report to the shareholders Together with the interim dividend of 1.26 cents 0.77 pence per together with the audited consolidated financial statements of the Ordinary Share 2010 1.10 cents 0.69 pence which was paid to Group and the parent Company financial statements for the year to shareholders on 15 September 2011, this amounts to a total dividend 31 December 2011. for 2011 of 2.93 cents 1.82 pence per Ordinary Share 2010 2.50 cents 1.55 pence.
Business review The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide information to the Share capital and control shareholders of the Company.
The Company has a single class of share which is divided into 1 Ordinary Shares of 3 3 pence each.
Each Ordinary Share carries Reviews of the Groups activities during the year, the position at one vote and all of the Ordinary Shares rank pari passu.
There are no the year end and developments since that date are set out in the special control rights relating to the Ordinary Shares.
At the date of 1 Chairmans statement, Chief Executive Officers review, the Directors this Report, 662.0 million Ordinary Shares of 3 3 pence each had statement on corporate governance and the Business review.
been issued which are fully paid up and are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company also operates a Level 1 American The Business review explains financial performance, key performance Depositary Receipt ADR programme with each ADR representing indicators, the position at the year end, any post balance sheet events, four Ordinary Shares.
The ADRs trade on the US over-the-counter likely future developments and a description of the principal risks and market and The Bank of New York Mellon is the authorised depositary uncertainties facing the Group and how these are managed.
The bank for the programme.
Further details on share capital are set out in Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with note 27 to the consolidated financial statements and note 15 to the respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the parent Company financial statements.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results to differ from those The rights, including those relating to voting, obligations and any anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and restrictions on transfer relating to the Companys Ordinary Shares, information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report as well as the powers of the Companys directors, are set out in the and the Company undertakes no obligation to update those forwardCompanys Articles of Association, a copy of which can be found on looking statements.
com or can be obtained from Companies House or by writing to the Company Secretary.
The Companys Principal activities Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution The principal activities of the Group are set out on pages 4 and 5 at a general meeting of shareholders.
The most recent changes to the of this Annual Report.
The principal global divisions and subsidiaries Articles of Association were approved at the 2010 AGM and became of the Group are set out on page 122. effective at the close of the meeting on 5 May 2010.
Results and dividends There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary Shares in the The consolidated income statement is on page 56.
Profit for the capital of the Company other than certain restrictions which may from financial year attributable to owners amounted to $94.6 million time to time be imposed by law, for example, insider trading law.
accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, certain employees are required to seek the approval of the Company Dividends are determined in US dollars and paid in sterling at to deal in its shares.
the exchange rate prevailing when the dividend is proposed.
A final dividend of 1.67 cents 1.05 pence per Ordinary Share is The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders recommended by the Board for the year to 31 December 2011 2010 that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on 1.40 cents 0.86 pence for which approval will be sought from voting rights.
The Company is also not aware of any contract of shareholders at the Companys 2012 Annual General Meeting 2012 significance between itself or any subsidiary undertaking and a AGM on 2 May 2012, to be paid on 3 May 2012 ADR holders on controlling shareholder.
10 May 2012 to those shareholders whose names are on the Register of Members on 9 March 2012.
