Overview p15 Business Review p621 Governance p2243 Financial Statements p4476 Shareholder Information p7785 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Pamela joined the Board as a non-executive Director in various Board members visited overseas offices in Shanghai February 2011.
Pamelas extensive background within the and Philadelphia, medical trade shows in the USA and Europe international medical industry will contribute significantly and a number of key global customers of each business unit.
to our Board and the future development of the Group.
People We recognise the importance of diversity at Board level and our I would like to thank our employees for their outstanding contribution Board members comprise a number of different nationalities with to the record results this year.
The passion, dedication and talent of a wide range of skills and experiences from a variety of business our employees remain a key asset to our business and its success.
backgrounds, including international, industrial, marketing, corporate, strategic planning, medical and financial expertise.
This Outlook diversity of thought and experience contributes significantly to the Demand across most of our end user markets continues to value, quality and depth of Board deliberations and decisions.
We have seen some softening in parts of our VPS business, particularly in Europe, as customers are cautiously In addition, the Board welcomed the publication in February managing inventories ahead of the calendar year end.
In our of the Davies Review on Women on Boards.
Our current female Invibio business we continue to see good growth.
representation on the Board is close to 30% and is therefore ahead of the minimum 25% representation level by 2015 We remain vigilant of the economic uncertainty, particularly in recommended by the Davies Review.
the Eurozone, and the impact this could have on our customers and end users.
Whilst it is early in the financial year, assuming Governance demand in our end markets remains resilient we anticipate The Board sets itself the highest standards of corporate full year earnings being on track with current market governance and leads a strong governance framework expectations for 2012. throughout the business, supported by the Audit, Currency, Nominations, Remuneration and Risk Committees.
The Group is in an excellent financial position with a healthy balance sheet and strong cash generation.
This gives us a We complied with all aspects of the UK Corporate Governance strong platform to invest further in our technical leadership, Code throughout the year ended 30 September 2011.
In addition the development of new growth opportunities and to ensure to our normal governance processes, this year we placed particular continued security of supply for our customers.
emphasis on the management of risk in relation to strategy and remuneration as well as the introduction of the Bribery Act and implications for our ethics and compliance procedures.
Board effectiveness During the year, an external evaluation of performance of the Board and its Committees was undertaken.
This review Anita Frew concluded that the Board and its Committees remain effective Chairman in fulfilling their responsibilities appropriately and that each 5 December 2011 Director continues to demonstrate a valuable contribution.
Actions agreed as a result of the Board evaluation include further development of the Groups strategic planning and talent processes.
We are a very engaged Board and, in addition to the formal meetings and briefings by operational management, we have an active programme of visits to operational sites, overseas Group offices, global trade shows and key customers.
During the year, all Board members visited our three manufacturing sites and www.
