T e c h n o l o g i e s a n d r e s o u r c e s n o i t u b i r t s i D 2 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 About us A business intent on meeting all our customers communication needs Technologies and resources Licences and spectrum Customers Licences and spectrum enable us to deliver fixed The latest technologies International customer and mobile communications services in certain offering our best customer markets.
During the year we acquired additional base with diverse needs licences and spectrum in several markets, experience including India for third generation 3G We have an international customer services and Germany for the provision of base in both developed and Network infrastructure fourth generation 4G or LTE services, to emerging markets with over We have one of the largest mobile footprints in enhance the speed, coverage and quality 370 million mobile customers in the world with more than 224,000 base station of voice and data services in those markets.
During the year our networks carried the year we added over 40 million around 850 billion minutes of voice traffic Strategic agreements customers, mostly in India.
We serve equivalent to 208 minutes per month, per We work closely with some of the worlds customer and 161 petabytes of data equivalent leading companies to deliver innovative to downloading over 1,400 three minute video products and services to our customers.
Customers by markets % clips every second.
Our agreements with Samsung, Google, Microsoft, HTC and others have enabled us India 17 Network performance to be first to market with cutting-edge smart Vodacom 5 36 We continue to invest around 6 billion a year devices.
We now distribute the Apple iPad in the 5 Germany 6 to maintain leadership of our networks.
Tests UK and to our enterprise customers in Europe.
Egypt 9 show that in the Europe region, Vodacom and For enterprise customers, in partnership with 12 Italy 10 Egypt, Vodafone offers peak user data downlink Microsoft we provide the Microsoft Online suite UK speeds which are on average 40% faster than which provides hosted email, conferencing Spain our best competitors.
In conjunction with Other RIM and Nokia, Vodafone customers using Research and development R&D smartphones will be able to securely pay for We drive innovation through new technologies applications via their Vodafone bill.
and enhancements to existing capabilities.
This year R&D expenditure amounted to Brand 287 million.
According to Brand Finance plc, the Vodafone brand has risen to become the fifth most Customer support technologies valuable brand in the world.
In the 2010 calendar Our billing and customer relationship year we renewed our title partnership with the management systems are being enhanced Vodafone McLaren Mercedes Formula One team.
to enable our customers to manage a single It has been a strong year for the sponsorship account, with a single bill, for multiple devices with increased television viewing figures and or for several people.
People Employees by activity % Customer service We employed approximately 83,900 people We are redesigning and worldwide during the year, compared to 85,000 Customer care and administration 17 improving our customer the previous year.
Operations care, retail presence and Selling and distribution 49 online service to ensure 34 that customers get the best data experience with Vodafone.
