Directors report and business review Directors report and business review WHSmith intends to build on its position as the UKs most popular stationer, bookseller and newsagent by continuing to grow its Travel business and delivering its High Street plan.
This Annual Report has been prepared for, and Business objectives and strategies onlyfor, the members of the Company, as a body, WHSmith intends to build on its position as the UKs andnoother persons.
The Company, its directors, most popular stationer, bookseller and newsagent by employees, agents or advisers do not accept or continuing to grow its Travel business and delivering assume responsibility to any other person to whom its High Street plan.
this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is We aim to improve the Companys profitability and expressly disclaimed.
By their nature, the statements cash flow generation, delivering sustainable returns concerning the risks and uncertainties facing the to shareholders.
We believe that a concentration on Group in this Annual Report involve uncertainty these factors will be reflected in a total shareholder sincefuture events and circumstances can cause return that compares well with our peer group of results and developments to differ materially from equivalent listed companies.
The forward-looking statements We invest where we believe we will achieve a return reflectknowledge and information available at the on investment above our cost of capital.
While date ofpreparation of this Annual Report and the external economic and other factors might affect us Companyundertakes no obligation to update these inthe short term, we believe that most of the markets forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual we are focused on will deliver sustainable returns.
Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Travel is focused on delivering value to shareholders Principal activities through organic growth in its existing outlets, securing new contracts, trialling new formats, The Company, one of the UKs leading retail groups, increasing average transaction value and making ismade up of two core businesses Travel and improvements to trading efficiency.
Travel sells a tailored selection of Newspapers, Magazines, Books and Impulse The High Street plan concentrates on building on our products mainly in airports, train stations, motorway authority in core categories, optimising margins, service areas, hospitals and workplaces: and High controlling costs and ensuring we deliver the retail Street sells a wide range of Stationery, Books, basics.
High Street continues to make significant Newspapers, Magazines and Impulse products progress in the delivery of its plan.
andasmall range of Entertainment products.
We aim to act responsibly towards all our WHSmiths outlets are frequently the first choice stakeholders, including customers, suppliers, forpeople buying our products on the high street business partners, employees and the communities in andwe are a trusted convenience retailer for which we operate.
Our annual Corporate Responsibility customers at travel locations.
We have an extensive report is available at www.
co. uk cr, with a store portfolio operating from 561 Travel units summary of our approach on pages 20 to 21 of including franchise units and 612 High Street thisreport.
stores, with leading positions in Stationery, Books andMagazines.
Overall, WHSmith employs approximately 16,000 staff, primarily in the UK.
WHSmith also reaches customers online via www.
co. uk and its specialist personalised cards and gifts website, www.
The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange SMWH and is included in the FTSE 250 Index.
Moreinformation about the business is available atwww.
WH Smith PLC 6 Annual report and accounts 2011
