com Directors report 110 Results and dividend Political and charitable donations Our financial results are set out in both the financial information and Financial In accordance with our corporate social involvement CSI policy, no political Review sections of this report.
Our CSI expenditure supports initiatives that benefit communities located close to our operations in the areas of health, Our Board recommends a final dividend of US27.0 cents per share amounting education, sport and the arts, community development, job creation and to $792 million.
The total 2011 dividend is US40.0 cents per share or $1,173 enterprise.
In 2011, Xstrata paid $102million for CSI initiatives.
Our shareholders will be asked to approve the dividend at the Annual during the year to UK registered charities totalled 161,000.
General Meeting on 1 May 2012, for payment on 23 May 2012 to ordinary shareholders whose names were on the Register of Members on 4 May 2012.
Employee policies and involvement Our policy and performance regarding employee involvement, disabled Principal activities employees, labour relations and employee share schemes are provided on Xstrata is a major global diversied mining group headquartered in Zug, pages 10 to 35.
We have a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange and a Secondary Listing on the SIX Swiss Exchange.
Additional information on Board of directors our operations is provided in the Business Overview and Strategy, Financial The directors during the year under review were Sir John Bond, Chairman, Review and Operational Review sections.
appointed to the Board on 4 May 2011, Mick Davis Chief Executive officer, Dr Con Fauconnier independent non-executive, Ivan Glasenberg nonReview of the business, future developments and executive, Peter Hooley independent non-executive, Claude Lamoureux post balance sheet events independent non-executive, Aristotelis Mistakidis non-executive appointed A review of our business and future developments is presented in the on 4 May 2011, Tor Peterson non-executive appointed on 4 May 2011, Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Ofcers Strategic review and the Sir Steve Robson independent non-executive, David Rough Deputy Financial and Operating reviews from page 40 to page 76 and forms part of Chairman, senior independent non-executive, Trevor Reid Chief Financial this Report by reference.
officer, Ian Strachan independent non-executive, Willy Strothotte Chairman and non-executive who retired on 4 May 2011, and Santiago A full description of acquisitions, disposals, and changes to Group companies Zaldumbide executive director.
undertaken during the year, including post balance sheet events, is included in the Financial Review on pages 40 to 45.
Further details about the directors, their skills and experience and their roles are given in the directors biographies on pages 84 and 85.
Corporate governance A report on corporate governance and compliance with the principles and Directors conicts of interest provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code is set out on pages 87 to Under section 175 of the Companies Act 2006, a director of a company must 95 and forms part of this report by reference.
avoid a situation in which he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conicts, or possibly may conict, with the interests of the company.
Financial instruments The duty is not infringed if the matter has been authorised by the directors Our financial risk management objectives and policies, details of financial of the relevant company.
Under the Act, the board of directors of the relevant instruments, hedging activities and exposures to price risk, credit risk, liquidity company has the power to authorise potential or actual conict situations.
risk and cash ow risk are discussed on pages 40 to 45 of the Financial Review Our Board has effective procedures in place that enable directors to notify and in Note 36 of the Financial Statements.
the Nominations Committee of any actual or potential conict situations.
The Nominations Committee reviews these notications in detail and makes recommendations to the Board regarding authorisation.
The Board will, if Creditor payment policy and practice appropriate, authorise these conict situations, subject to conditions and for The international nature of our business means that there is no specic a period of one year.
All directors conict situations are reviewed annually.
Group-wide policy in respect of payments to suppliers.
Our individual A Conicts Register of authorisations is maintained.
operating companies are responsible for agreeing terms and conditions for their business transactions and ensuring that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment.
It is our policy that payments are made in accordance with these, Directors liabilities provided that all trading terms and conditions have been met by the supplier.
The Company has granted qualifying third party indemnities to each of its directors against any liability that attaches to them in defending proceedings Xstrata plc is a holding company with no business activity other than the brought against them, to the extent permitted by the Companies Acts.
In holding of investments in the Group and therefore had no trade creditors addition, directors and ofcers of the Company and its subsidiaries are at 31 December 2011 and was not invoiced by any suppliers in 2011. covered by Directors & Ofcers liability insurance.
Health, safety, environment & community HSEC Directors and their interests An overview of health, safety and environmental performance and community Details of interests in the share capital of the Company of those directors in participation is provided throughout from pages 4 to 35. ofce as at 31 December 2011 and their families are given below.
None of the shares were held non-beneficially.
No director held interests in the shares of Exploration and research and development any subsidiary company.
Our business units carry out exploration and research and development activities that are necessary to support and expand their operations and their commitment to the environment.
