146120 Project Daejan Holdings R&A Pt2 146120 Project Daejan Holdings R&A Pt2 22 07 2011 14:09 Page 12 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Report together with the Financial Statements for the year to 31 March 2011.
Principal Activities of the Group Daejan Holdings PLC is a holding company whose principal activity, carried on through its subsidiary undertakings, is property investment, with some development also being undertaken.
Whilst the major part of the Groups property portfolio comprises commercial, industrial and residential premises throughout the United Kingdom, a number of subsidiary undertakings are incorporated in the United States of America and carry out property investment in that country.
Investment Property A professional valuation of all the Groups properties was carried out at 31 March 2011.
The resultant figures are included in the Financial Statements now presented and the net increase of 52.0 million 2010 25.0 million over previous book values has been included in the Income Statement.
The Groups UK properties were valued by Colliers CRE, Chartered Surveyors and produced a revaluation surplus of 44.6 million 2010 38.8 million.
The Groups USA properties were valued by Colliers, Meredith & Grew, Joseph J. Blake and Associates Inc. and Metropolitan Valuation Services Inc. All the USA firms are General Certified appraisers.
The revaluation surplus arising on the USA properties was 7.4 million 2010 13.8 million deficit.
Business Review The Groups Business Review is included in the Chairmans Statement set out on pages 2 to 11 and is included in this report by reference.
Results and Dividend The profit for the year amounted to 67.8 million 2010 45.7 million.
An Interim Dividend of 25p per share was paid on 4 March 2011 and the Directors now recommend the payment of a Final Dividend of 50p per share, making a total for the year of 75p per share 2010 74p per share.
Financial Objectives and Policies and Exposure to Financial Risk The Group operates a cautious financial policy within clear authorities on a non-speculative and long term basis in order to enable the Group to carry on its business in confidence and with strength.
The Group aims to ensure that the cost of capital is kept to a minimum through the maintenance of its many long standing relationships with leading banks and other financial institutions.
The Group seeks to minimise the risk of sudden and unexpected rises in finance costs by way of fixed rate debt and financial derivative instruments whilst retaining some flexibility in relation to short term interest rates.
There is no obligation or present intention to repay the Groups borrowings other than at maturity.
Payment Policy It is the Groups policy to settle the terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, to ensure that those suppliers are aware of those terms and to abide by the agreed terms of payment, providing that it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
The Group does not, however, follow any formal code or statement on payment practice.
