Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 22 Business line review W orkwear.
The workwear business line delivers and maintains workwear for private and public sector organisations.
Our service meets the needs of customers in sectors including light and heavy industry, food, pharmaceuticals, automotive and markets where safety, hygiene is a necessity combined with profile and image.
Market overview Drivers and trends Contractual agreements The European Textile maintenance market is The core determinant of demand for workwear We typically supply rental workwear very fragmented with only a small number of from our actual and potential customer base is garmentsto a customers own specification large players.
The essence of our business is economic activity.
However, the trend towards based upon three year contractual serving customers with a trouble-free supply outsourcing drives the maintenance segment agreementswith provision for annual cost ofgarments for their employees.
Our plants ofthe market at a faster pace and the factors increases and residual value payments in the operate in focused geographical areas in order behind this conversion to rental are: event of early contract termination.
The billing to guarantee a local approach towards our of workwear services is usually determined Corporate image presenting a consistent customers.
Forour customers, outsourcing bythe following factors: and identifiable image tocustomers.
ofthis service means that we take complete Specification of garment responsibility for all activities regarding Health & Safety compliance specialist workwear from the start to the end of the Size of workforce number of users garments to meet the regulatory requirements cycleThe advantage for our customers is that of different industries EN ISO standards.
Frequency of cleaning replacement they can save costs, free up time, space, Operational efficiency outsourcing non-core personnel and capital resources.
Allthese Delivery locations activities including laundering and maintenance.
resources can be used by the customer to Length of contract focuson their core business activities.
To deliver Free-up capital allowing customers to invest the service we promise, we use both internal in their own business.
Economics the scale of larger and specialist operations purchase and maintenance drives lower unit costs.
Product specification technical support and tailor made innovations.
With this contract, we are Key actions: Business lines experiencing a completely new type Accelerate top-line growth of partnership.
Coca-Cola Enterprises actually rely on us in order to in core business lines: fulfil their ambitious new sustainability International contracts plan Deliver for today, inspire From 2012, Berendsens Workwear business fortomorrow.
line will service Coca-Cola Enterprises CCE Wilfred fide Roos in the UK and Western Europe.
This project Sales and Commercial Director, Workwear isone of the finest examples of the potential found in the European workwear market.
Itcomes from a dedicated and successful cooperation between Sunlight, Berendsen and CCE, with a specific focus on obtaining uniformity in the image of CCE employees inall countries.
One of the most important aspects in the relationship is Berendsens ability to contribute actively to CCEs sustainability strategy, whichencompasses their entire supply chain.
Because our services are based on highenvironmental standards, we will becomemore than just a supplier wewill play an instrumental role in limiting our sharedcarbon footprint.
Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 23 We planned for success and expected our supplier relationships to be strong enough to deliver thechanges: however the level of improvement was far greater than weoriginally expected.
This was just one of the programme reasons we far overachieved our budget for cash delivery in the year.
Key actions: Business lines Lars Kamphuis Director of Finance, Netherlands Improve cash deliveries: Working with our suppliersin workwear Working with our suppliers to get what is abalanced level of credit for our business recognises that there are different practices indifferent countries.
Our benchmarking exercises enabled us to identifywhere unwarranted differences had arisen or in some cases where our payment practices did not match the terms we had previously negotiated and where there was room for enhancement.
Over recent years we have confirmed Performance Our suppliers have recognised the rigour the resilience of our workwear business 1 withwhich we have conducted our capital 2011 2010 with its diverse customer base efficiency programme and have worked with Revenue 286.5m 273.0m acrossNorthern Europe, the number us to deliver a good outcome.
For example, we approached 800 suppliers in our Dutch and breadth of contracts and the Adjusted workwear business to move to common operatingprofit 49.2m 46.1m innovations we have brought to our terms and payment cycles: we have been markets.
We have benefited from Adjusted ableto retain 790 of them.
ourfocus on Northern Europe and operatingmargin 17.2% 16.9% Scandinavia, where markets generally Before exceptional items and amortisation improved in 2011 and are currently of customer contracts 1 Extracted from unaudited management accounts stable.
We saw higher levels of revenuegrowth in Sweden with analltime highvolume and with Strategic priorities theoperational efficiencies we were We plan to build on our heritage of able to gain, delivered strong profit growth.
Both Denmark and the market innovation, customer service and operational excellence.
We will Netherlands improved adjusted operating margins todeliver agood focus the resources we have in our country teams and enhance best operating profit performance.
Our UK workwear business grew revenue and practice across the business line.
We have confirmed that the addressable operating profits modestly and whilewewere disappointed with market for us is substantial.
theperformance ofthe business in k Substantial addressable market Germany, we saw some improvement confirmed inthe second half.
k Attractiveness of sectors determined Plans for 2012 k Focus on customers solutions In 2012 we will build on our solid contract base with initiatives to improve k Extending best practice our market focus through the new inoperations business line structure.
Our target sectors have been identified to addressthat part of the market which Operational highlights isnot outsourced and is, we believe, Revenue grew 5% in the year to atleastas big as the outsourced textile 286.5million.
It may take time andthe impact of a number of small for some of these initiatives to enhance acquisitions underlying growth was top line growth, which also depends 2%.
Margins were slightly higher at upon economic activity.
However, 17.2%, with adjusted operating profits weexpect to make solid progress up7% to 49.2 million 46.1 million.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 24 Business line review continued F acility.
Our Facility business line provides the opportunity for higher growth with superior margins and returns.
It covers our mat andwashroom operations, including higher growth Norwegian, Polish and Czech business units and our cleanroom operations focused on the pharmaceutical and hi-tech sectors.
Mats Market overview Drivers and trends Contractual agreements The mats business addresses a very broad A mat service is sold rather than bought.
Few We typically supply mat services to a customer base which includes retailers, customers know of the service and most have customers specific requirements based upon wholesalers, restaurants, garages and all kinds managed to operate without it.
An active and one to three year contractual agreements ofoffices, industrial premises and government efficient field sales force is the determining withprovision for annual cost increases and facilities.
The average customer size is factor in growing the market.
a low invoice value and is usually determined The key factors in marketing the concept are: bythe following factors: The largest customers are typicallycleaning Corporate image presenting a consistent Frequency of service provided companies and other facility companies andidentifiable image to customers.
wherewe are engaged in different forms Number of products served ofpartnerships.
In general the cost of mat Health & Safety compliance preventing Range of products served services is relatively low and therefore price accidents and maintaining a good environment sensitivity is more limited than in some for users including clean floors.
Market development up-selling of higher specification products over time.
Economics the benefits of outsourcing non-core activities.
Washroom Almost 80% of all bacteria spreads from Market overview Drivers and trends thewashroom due to poor sanitation or lack As every kind of business requires washroom Serviced washroom solutions are sold rather ofwashroom products, and low levels of facilities, the market has very few limits.
Potential customers will invariably handwashing Customers include retailers, restaurants, have an existing solution or be managing their garages and the full range of offices, public own sourcing and supplies: Contractual agreements sector organisations and industry, with the We typically supply washroom services to Research indicates that hygiene standards average customer size being relatively small.
acustomers specific requirements based inshared washrooms are an increasing Ingeneral, the average cost of outsourced uponthree to five year contractual agreements concernfor users.
Our products and services washroom facilities is low.
withprovision for annual cost increases are designed to secure personal hygiene in andself-renewing contracts.
The chosen segments are all away from home washrooms where normal hand washing The market is constantly growing as new hygiene standards are required.
The largest products and services are introduced.
customers are typically cleaning companies or The market is driven by a general outsourcing other facility service companies where Berendsen trend and a specific trend towards higher is engaged in various commercial agreements.
Customer retention is high, at up to 95%.
Cleanroom Market overview Drivers and trends Contractual agreements Whereas ordinary workwear relates to The core drivers are similar to those of We typically supply rental workwear garments protecting people against the working ourworkwear business.
Factors include: to a customers own specification based environment, cleanroom is also about protecting uponthree year contractual agreements with The international expansion of pharmaceutical the environment against people.
The particles provision for annual cost increases and residual and high-tech companies into BRIC countries.
associated with humans can harm products value payments in the event of early contract andproduction processes, and the businesses Stricter hygiene legislation.
The billing of workwear services is ofmany Berendsen customers depend on usually determined by the following factors: Product specification technical support meetingthe highest quality standards.
Specification of garment Many customers need a combination of Economics larger and specialist operations Size of workforce number of users cleanroom services and regular workwear purchase and maintenance drivelower Frequency of cleaning replacement services to meet hygiene requirements, such as unitcosts.
those stipulated by ISO certification.
Acleanroom Delivery locations Corporate image presenting a consistent supplier is typically a vital part of aquality andidentifiable image to customers.
Length of contract management system that meets the needs of external regulation, and therefore difficult to replace.
This has resulted in high profitability in this segment to provide the necessary returns for our investments in technology.
Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 25 Performance Operational highlights 1 2011 2010 Our facility businesses benefited fromthe acquisition of the Scandinavian Revenue 207.3m 172.6m washroom business of ISS at the end of Adjusted last year but we also saw higher levels of operatingprofit 47.8m 38.7m organic revenue growth in the business Adjusted line, which has the least developed operatingmargin 23.1% 22.4% market and offers the most potential Before exceptional items and amortisation forgrowth.
Excluding the impact of of customer contracts acquisitions and currency, organic 1 Extracted from unaudited management accounts revenue growth was 5% and underlying operating profit growth was 7%.
Strategic priorities Themargin improved from 22.4% to23.1%.
Facility offers our largest opportunity for the higher margin and return from Our mat and washroom businesses each incremental sale.
It is a sales inScandinavia delivered solid organic intensive business and we seek to growth and improved their market leadthe market in terms of the leadership with the benefit of the effectiveness and efficiency of our acquisition of ISS washrooms.
In cleanroom, we are a operating profits were held back in leader in customer driven solutions, Norway in the first half by increased Key actions: Business lines withthe opportunity to extend distribution costs following the existingpropositions to new acquisition, but the business is now Accelerate top-line growth customers.
Underpinning our market wellplaced to capture further benefits in core business lines: development is our expertise in from the additional volume and Sales excellence operations and distributions.
enhancements to product and service strengthening senior offered to our washroom customers.
k Extend our market leading salesmanagement positions in mats and washroom With the new business line structure, we with product innovation willincrease the focus on achieving sales excellence across the company.
Based on k Drive performance improvement ourSales Machine manual, which covers best insales in mat and washroom practices in the entire sales process, we have developed a number of key performance k Extend propositions to new indicators KPIs.
These cover the most important virtues that we want to improve customers in cleanroom in2012: ranging from number of sales visitsper day to customer retention and k Best practice development in generatingnew sales leads.
Progress will operations and distribution bereported onamonthly basis via a simple traffic lightsystem and be a part of each markets monthly reporting package.
Seniormanagement will work to improve sales efficiency and ensure that best .
You only improve the things you measure.
Therefore, we will measure sales efficiency in a number of areas.
In addition, we will be transparent with the results and benchmark the markets to roll-out best practices.
Jens Mondrup Business Director, Mats and Washroom Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 26 Business line review continued There was strong progress in Poland, where we have returned to double-digit growth and increased our margin back toward 20%.
Our businesses in the Baltics and Czech Republic also developed well.
Our cleanroom businesses based inDenmark, the Netherlands and Sweden performed very well in the year, broadening the service range andwinning key contract extensions aswellas new customers.
We won asignificant reference customer in Germany, which will be serviced from our existing operations.
We saw high single-digit growth in revenue and adjusted operating profit this year.
Plans for 2012 The outlook for the facility business remains good and we expect this segment to again drive the highest level of growth for the group in revenue and adjusted operating profit in 2012.
The performance of our washroom business has improved significantly in2011.
This is partly due to several large contracts signed with customers as a direct result of our broadened service offering.
Christian Steen Product Manager, Mats and Washroom Key actions: Business lines Accelerate top-line growth in core business lines: Enhancement of the washroom range though ISSacquisition The acquisition of ISSs washroom services inScandinavia was a significant step towards broadening the scale of potential customers.
Aside from gaining access to a new group ofcustomers, Berendsen is emphasising customer needs even more by including anewpaper-based line in our service offering.
On the one hand, this means that high-volume clients wanting efficient, economical solutions are serviced by the paper-based solutions.
Onthe other, customers aiming for the premium, functional solutions with a less industrial feel will choose our existing textile solutions.
With the two lines, we can tailor eachservice specifically toevery customer this fits well with our goal of organic growth.
Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 27 TO BE SUPPLIED Key actions: Business lines This is a win win for both us and thecustomers and we have been Improve cash deliveries: delighted with the take up of the new Win win for our billing profile.
This has now become customers inFacility our standard way of working.
Monthly bills in our mat and washroom Sren Roland businesses can be for relatively small Country Manager, Denmark individual amounts and the cost of processing Mats and Washroom and settling these can be disproportionately onerous for our customers.
This also adds tothe administrative cost of managing the contracts.
As these monthly charges tend tobe fixed, we can anticipate the charges monthly with good accuracy and by billing thecustomer once within the period rather than at the end of each month we can reduce administration all round.
In our Danish facility business we have converted over 5,000 customers to this billing profile in 2011, withatake up rate of over 85% of those weapproached.
The new Cleanroom business line simply has more leverage when extending our existing offerings to customers, moving into new segments and adapting to new opportunities truly, speeding up time to market andimproving our overall returns.
Jon van der Weide Business Director, Cleanroom Key actions: Business lines Leverage operational efficiency and widen application of best practice: Centralised resources and a specialised sales Building a focused team mean that we can focus exclusively organisation onservicing customers.
Imagine a scenario, whereclient needs determine the The Cleanroom market is all about expertise.
developmentof our contamination control Businesses rely onour skill in building flawless services.
In a business line dedicated strictly production systems.
With the new focused tocleanroom, we are also able to offer European cleanroom organisation, we have cross-national contracts, which are geared taken a majorstep towards becoming the forlarger customers potentially, moving with number one, value-adding, partner for them intonew markets and geographies.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 28 Business line review continued UK Flat Linen.
Our UK Flat Linen business so called because a large part of the offering are the sheets, pillowcases, tableclothes etc that are ironed flat cover hotel and healthcare customers where we hold the market-leading position.
Hotels Market overview Drivers and trends Contractual agreements Large hotel groups are attractive customers, There are two main drivers of demand: A typical contractual agreement lasts for two aslower unit prices are offset by the larger or three years and imposes an exit penalty Construction the London Hotel Development unitsize, economies of volume and reduced onthe customer together with a requirement Monitor identified that 3,100 new hotel bedrooms seasonality.
On average, a large group site touse a set percentage of allocated stock opened in 2011 in London, another 2,335 to mid equates to seven small independents, which are onaweekly basis.
It permits price increases February, with another 4,276 under construction characterised by higher transport and service atunspecified intervals, typically exercised and due for opening by the end of 2012. costs, greater seasonality and some in-house annually.
Some larger clients have bespoke Asignificant number of hotels have also opened capabilities.
Large independents also offer terms in their contracts.
or are under construction outside London.
Occupancy UK-wide occupancy growth Sunlight is the UK leader in hotel linen provision isestimated to be 2.7% in 2010 and 1.7% in 2011, and the only truly national provider, although with London contributing 1.8% and 4.1% regional firms unite in associations to compete respectively.
In 2012, UK hotel occupancy for national business.
isexpected to grow by approximately 1.3%.
It is estimated that the market value could rise to approximately 375 million per annum by theend of 2012.
Healthcare Market overview Drivers and trends Contractual agreements For the NHS, purchasing of linen and laundry The main drivers are: NHS contracts are typically let for a period services has been simplified by National ofthree to five years, with occasionally the In 2012 we expect at least four NHS laundries to Frameworks that set core prices and run possibility of gaining extension periods of up close, leading to a potential increase in revenue mini-competitions for those suppliers eligible totwo years.
This is longer than the contract available to private sector operators of for the individual Strategic Health Authority period in the private sector, which tends to approximately 4.5 million per annum.
This structure has significantly reduced benearer three years.
not expect significant volume growth through the timelines from the issue of documentation investment in hospital capacity in 2012. to the implementation of new contracts.
Capacity restrictions, as the underlying market Although the business is not seasonal, is not expected to grow dramatically, with only activitycan fall during peak holiday periods limited investment in new hospital capacity.
dueto a reduction in elective surgery and Small increases in volume, of around 2.5% per outpatient appointments.
The UK Healthcare divisions successful accreditation of its factories to the EN14065 biocontamination control standard goes far beyond the minimum required.
As the only UK textiles services company accredited to this standard, we are leading theindustry in helping hospitals Key actions: Business lines tofight infection.
Accelerate top-line growth in care business lines Peter McCabe Regional Director Leading the industry in contamination control: UK Healthcare Sunlights UK Healthcare division has Critical control points have been identified successfully accredited its factories to the andmicrobiological testing is carried out EN14065 standard on biocontamination everymonth at our own UK Accreditation control in laundry processed textiles, Service approved laboratory, to ensure becomingthe only UK company to achieve continued compliance.
The two year project has included noweducating customers in the importance significant investment in equipment and ofsetting clear textile processing infrastructure to create barriers to segregate requirementsto achieve the lowest possible different areas of the process, movement infection risk and a reductionin hospital ofmachinery to create better process flow, acquired infections.
creation of risk-minimisation procedures andextensive staff training.
Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 29 Performance Operational highlights 1 2011 2010 There was a 2% increase in revenue in2011 to 195.2 million 191.1 million Revenue 195.2m 191.1m whilst adjusted operating profit was Adjusted up5% to 26.1 million 24.9 million.
operatingprofit 26.1m 24.9m The adjusted operating margin Adjusted increased 40bps to 13.4%.
We saw operatingmargin 13.4% 13.0% higher levels ofgrowth in the Healthcare Before exceptional items and amortisation business aslike-for-like volumes of customer contracts 1 stabilised towards the end of the year Extracted from unaudited management accounts and we won a major new contract, which was newly outsourced in Strategic priorities thesecond half.
We remain well placedtocapture contracts for We plan to develop our strategic furtheroutsourcing, although the customer relationships through Through technological innovation decision-making around these innovation, quality and service to further andonline account access, the UK opportunities is currently rather slow.
As market Hotels division is leading its market leader we also seek to be the supplier of Like-for-like volumes in our Hotel indeveloping new services.
This choice for tenders or new outsourcing business were broadly in line with differentiated service proposition especially in Healthcare.
2010for the year as a whole but with delivers clear and sustainable value some variability and weakening as the tocustomers while enhancing the k Growing strategic relationships year progressed.
Revenue was slightly service levels.
Working ever more k Supplier of choice for new higher with the price increases we closely with customers, we are outsourcing wereable to introduce.
Our operating playinga critical part in delivering margin was slightly lower than 2010 as anenjoyable guest experience and k Service innovation we adjusted our volume expectations ensuring that customer hotel brand through the year but were able to k Managing operational excellence standards are maintained.
holdonto most of the strong increase Jerry Reed inmargin we delivered in 2010.
National Account Director UK Hotels Plans for 2012 The outlook is for further progress inHealthcare where we expect newoutsourcing opportunities to comethrough.
Our Hotel business is dependent upon a stable economy through the year as a whole and while the Olympics inLondon will boost demand, it is taking place in a normal seasonally busy period for the group.
Key actions: Business lines Leverage operational efficiency and widen application of best practice: Integrating with customers via technological innovation In order to improve stock utilisation while delivering enhanced service levels, Sunlight hasbeen developing new systems to integrate itself further with customers operations.
TheSunlight Connect internet portal enables customers to calculate and record online the quantity of linen used and required, reducing their costs through saving staff time and allowing a range of new services to be offered.
Travelodge immediately saw the potential efficiency savings of the Sunlight Connect system, together with improved transparency in linking their linen costs to their occupancy.
Working in close partnership with Travelodge, Sunlight has already rolled the system out to 140 hotels, with another 90 to be completed by end March 2012.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 30 Business line review continued M anage for value.
We operate Flat Linen businesses in Austria, Denmark, Germany, Ireland and Sweden.
Our Clinical Solutions and Decontamination business is based in the UK.
Our focus is on the tight management of capital investment, the maximisation of cashdeliveries and the adjustment of our cost base to reflect thechange towards managing for value.
Flat Linen outside UK Market overview Value drivers Actions Although our hotels and healthcare businesses These businesses are well invested with We will manage our non-UK flat linen outside the UK are relatively strong in their astrong contract base.
businesses under a separate management ownmarkets, with many operating as market structure, combining Hotels in Sweden Operational efficiencies and contract leaders, we do not expect significant growth andDenmark.
orto achieve higher levels of return.
We will drive for operational efficiencies and Cash conversion in excess of 100%.
undertake restructuring to ensure we are the lowest cost service provider.
Clinical Solutions and Decontamination Market overview Value drivers Actions The outsourcing of integrated linen, Greater volume to leverage our well We are engaged with our customers to consumables and instrument decontamination .
deliverthe returns anticipated by the services for the operating theatre provides twodecontamination contracts.
opportunity for the UK health service to We are tendering for new contracts and meetits current challenges and objectives.
We drive for service improvements and efficiencies in our reusable linen contracts.
Key actions: Business lines Improve cash deliveries: Wage restructuring The recent 10% GDP contraction and general economic decline in the Republic of Ireland has impacted on all aspects of our business and revenue.
As a consequence the existing wage structures were not sustainable and were a threat to the ongoing business and employment levels.
On a site by site basis a negotiated settlement was reached with By proactively engaging with staff staffand their union representatives for a we have been able to provide options voluntary redundancy programme and the for nearly all our employees thereby implementation of a competitive wage ensuring a sustainable and more structure with flexible working practices.
Thisapproach has minimised disruption and flexible model for both our customers has provided a competitive platform for the and employees.
business from which to sustain and develop Gerry Moore the customer base and retain employment.
Country Manager, Ireland Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 31 In our Clinical Solutions and Performance Operational highlights Decontamination business we This comprises our hotel and healthcare Flat Linen outside UK increasedrevenue to 69.0 million businesses in Denmark and Sweden, from68.0 million with the increase 1 2011 2010 ourhealthcare business in Germany coming from higher revenues on the Revenue 234.0m 281.4m andAustria and our Irish businesses.
Following Weinclude here our remaining direct Adjusted the provisioning of future losses on operatingprofit 21.7m 22.6m sale business in the UK revenues of these decontamination contracts at 11million having sold Bjrnklder Adjusted theend of 2010 for 9.9 million, which operatingmargin 9.3% 8.0% Sweden in 2010, we reported revenue was taken as an exceptional item, we of 46.4 million and operating profit Before exceptional items and amortisation saw the business as a whole report a of customer contracts of3.1 million in this segment in 2010. profit of 3.3 million.
We are making 1 Extracted from unaudited management accounts steady progress on improving the Excluding the impact of the sale of performance of our decontamination Bjrnklder, our flat linen business Clinical Solutions and contracts and working with our outside the UK held revenues broadly Decontamination customers to bring these contracts to flat at 234.0 million but improved 1 2011 2010 longer term viability.
4.4 million of the profits 11% to 21.7 million.
The margin future loss provision was utilised in 2011 Revenue 69.0m 68.0m increased to 9.3% from 8.0%.
in line with expectations 2010 full Adjusted Our focus in these Manage for Value yearloss 5.3 million, with a further operatingprofit 3.3m 1.2 m businesses has been on margin provision of 5.5 million remaining.
Adjusted improvement and we have undertaken Sterile consumables encountered some operatingmargin 4.8% 1.8% restructuring in Ireland and in Denmark supply issues in the second half of the Before exceptional items and amortisation and concluded the restructuring in year, which held back profits but it of customer contracts German Healthcare announced in 2010 1 wasasolid year for our reusable Extracted from unaudited management accounts to align these businesses to the new textilebusiness.
These actions have delivered excellent progress with a significant Plans for 2012 adjusted operating margin improvement in Ireland and Scandinavia.
Our German We expect further improvement in Healthcare business held margins at 7%, these businesses with the focus on the same as 2010 but on lower volumes, margin and cash generation.
While with the full year effect of 2010 recognising that the opportunities for customer losses.
higher levels of revenue growth may notbe as strong in this segment, these are good businesses with experienced management teams and good market positions, so they have much to contribute to the success of the group.
We want to use best practice and we dont need to invent new concepts, products or practices.
The things weare already succeeding with in Denmark can be easily integrated in the Swedish market and vice-versa.
Michael Iversen Country Manager, Denmark and Sweden, Hotels Key actions: Business lines Support from shared services: Combining strengths In the hotel and restaurant business, the company is celebrating the merits that come from building a more specialised organisation.
The integration of the Swedish and Danish linenunits looks especially promising.
Here, weare standardising our product development, unifying our product catalogue and centralising our overall resources resources that are now allocated strictly for hotel and restaurants!
Thisresults directly in anumber of market advantages, including amore effective organisation of our efforts andopportunities inprocurement.
Essentially, we are taking the things that work to perfection and making them the norm forhowwe service our customers in this particular area.
