Business review for almost all the aggregate rise in industry assets under Introduction management.
In Europe alone there were US$140 billion of This has been a record year for revenues and profits.
The Group net fund redemptions in the three months to September from has delivered on its priorities of improving fee margins and European and cross-border funds.
profits have been converted into operating cash ow, which has been used to repay debt and to strengthen Although such withdrawals amounted to less than 2% of longthe balance sheet.
term fund assets, they are among the highest net outows on record.
In the same quarter US$54 billion was redeemed from There has been increased volatility in the markets since the US equity mutual funds: there were outows of US$90 billion summer and we face a period of uncertain markets.
However, in long-term mutual funds in the year to date, led by bond the Group is well placed to address the challenges given the funds.
Investor confidence in most markets is being affected diversied client, product and asset base.
In addition there is widespread Industry developments scepticism towards financial services, with regulation adding For much of the last financial year, world markets were stable.
Investors bet on a US-led global recovery and corporate profits This environment has contributed to changes in investor and stock markets were rising.
However, with the escalating behaviour.
On the one hand it has created demand for lowEuropean debt crisis, volatility has surged.
Lacklustre US data cost products.
Helped by the boom in commodities, Exchange and Chinas housing-led slowdown add additional concerns.
Traded Funds ETFs have quickly outgrown their origins as Bouts of risk appetite and risk aversion have alternated as simple index trackers.
On the other hand, the complexity of arguments have gone back and forth in respect of ination and the newer breed of ETFs is making the alternative of activelydeation, stimulus and austerity.
That has led many investors managed funds, such as ours, that much clearer.
to opt for perceived safe havens of real assets, like property, commodities and gold.
Within Europe, ows from bank-owned asset managers slumped in 2010.
Investors withdrew funds because of Flows into emerging markets were strong early on and performance or as a delayed reaction to past product benefited both equities and bonds, where we are among mis-selling.
By contrast nimbler, less encumbered independent market leaders.
We believe that Western institutions remain fund managers saw positive ows.
underweight in emerging markets and will need to diversify further in order to generate higher returns to meet liabilities at To some extent banks are facing a crisis of their own making, home.
While some movement was policy led, recent outows leading some to put their asset management businesses up appear temporary as investors take profits to cover positions for sale.
However, while we value our market position as an elsewhere or seek liquidity.
independent asset manager, the difficulties that the banks face are not necessarily our gain.
We depend on banks for Unfortunately, ows into emerging markets were distribution as much as we compete with them on products.
unrepresentative of industry patterns as a whole.
Sales Bank-owned asset managers have been able to use their links through third party distributors have not recovered and market to push structured products, including ETFs.
16 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 New regulations continue to be developed and amended.
From but net inows of 5.7 billion into our higher margin pooled 2013 rebate payments to UK intermediaries are to be outlawed.
Overall 58% of gross new ows were in pooled funds.
A complete separation of manager We have substituted segregated accounts with growth in our and distributor charges would have the merit of letting retail higher margin pooled funds business, where owners included buyers see what we receive.
The popular perception is that institutions and wholesale vendors acting for corporates and managers retain the bulk of headline fees which is not the private investors alike.
These developments follow our efforts case.
Legislation could redraw how funds are priced and sold to build distribution across Europe and latterly the US, which and managers may have to tailor products to investors needs or remains easily the biggest market for savings and one we see opt to compete on service.
as having potential for growth for Aberdeen.
A parallel development is taking place over products, with Our closed end fund range is an important part of our pooled Europe looking to distinguish between simple and complex fund business.
In the UK, we were awarded Investment Week's structures.
"While this would seem welcome as we believe ""investment trust group of the year"", with Murray International rmly in transparency and a simple investment process there winning the award for best international income trust and are deeper problems."
Equities, in general, have failed to deliver New India for best single country fund.
Our US business has satisfactory returns over the past decade.
Diversication has continued to grow and we are adding to the range.
We were not reduced risk either because asset classes have become more recently appointed manager of The Singapore Growth Fund and correlated.
At the same time the idea of the risk-free rate that there are two other Asian equities funds where the boards are underpins debt markets appears broken.
These funds add around US$1.2 million of AuM.
The industry may need to do several things to win back buyer trust: accept its limitations, otherwise increasing numbers of Our past investment in creating a global client service model is investors will turn to cash savings: and learn to understand bearing fruit.
In recent years we have grown our ofce network client needs better and resist chasing fads.
This footprint helps to differentiate us as a genuine global group, one capable of both gathering and Aberdeen developments managing assets around the world.
In the past 12 months we Our priority remains to build sustainable growth in assets have made strides in systems development and client and fund at improving margins.
One way to achieve that is through ow data capture that has given us a much more intelligent and improved distribution.
We have continued to source new dynamic picture of where we are making money.
This allows us business from a broadening range of capabilities and products.
to better understand the sources of demand and respond more We have a blend of direct institutional clients investing in effectively to these.
segregated mandates, as well as investments in our pooled funds, which are largely sold through intermediaries.
In the past financial year, we have had net outows of 7.4 billion, Globally emerging markets saw inows, mature markets did not Assets by mandate type Simple growth, year-end 2010 vs. year end 2007, % Open end A Total growth Inow effect Market funds 32% % % performance % Closed end funds 6% Latin America 39 15 24 Institutional Africa 22 15 7 mandate 62% Middle East 16 n a n a Asia ex-Japan 12 13 1 Australia 7 -1 8 Western Europe 2 0 2 North America -3 -1 -2 Japan 4 -9 -13 Global 0 0 0 -10 0 10 20 30 40 -5 0 5 10 15 -15 0 15 30 A Source: Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Cumulative inows from 2008-2010 as a % of year end 2007 AuM.
Source: McKinsey Global Asset Management database.
com 17 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Asset classes in focus Equities Our core equities teams have continued to perform robustly.
Overall, we had 9.0 billion of inows, largely into global emerging markets GEM and global equities.
We have had good ows into GEM across each of our regions.
In line with different regional responses to risk, the industry reported variable appetite for GEM at different points through the year.
Notwithstanding, we continued to receive steady ows in aggregate, underscoring how established our GEM products have become, even in taxing conditions.
Core global equity mandates continued to generate interest, with some 4 billion of net new business.
Through the year we won mandates in EAFE Plus, EAFE Only and global income.
We see opportunity for further growth in pooled funds, including the Global Small Cap product.
The global equity team have been together for almost nine years: we can soon look forward to a ten-year track record under the current investment process.
One of the key funds managed by the team, Murray International, received a highly commended at the Money Observer Investment Trust Awards 2011 and won the international income award in Investment Week's 2011 Investment Trust Awards, where we also won 'Group of the year'.
Our Asian equities team continues to generate steady ows, primarily into pooled funds.
Fixed Income Fixed income markets have had a very volatile year.
The continuing Eurozone debt crisis and concerns over the outlook for global economic growth have led to a ight to quality and liquidity.
Yields in developed government bond markets are at multi-year lows.
The spike in risk aversion we saw over the summer months led to a widening in credit spreads and, briey, underperformance in emerging markets.
We suffered net outows of 6.5 billion from the more traditional xed income classes such as UK, Europe, the US and Australia.
Against this, our Asian and emerging market debt teams attracted 1.6 billion in net new money.
Interest in local currency mandates has grown from almost non-existent levels just two to three years ago, and consultant interest is now picking up.
In line with the industry, we have seen net outow of 2.1 billion in money market assets.
In our view, developed government bond markets are extremely overvalued: thus we established a short duration position for many of our xed income strategies over the summer, shortly before the Federal Reserve launched its twist operation.
While contrarian, we believe this strategy will ultimately prove successful.
We brought together our interest rate and currency teams into one global macro team to improve the interaction between our specialist teams.
We also set up a strategy team to develop our longer term investment views.
There is now one team ultimately responsible for managing global credit similar to the approach used by our global equity team.
Our global credit research platform is more tightly controlled ensuring greater transparency and consistency worldwide.
Assets by asset class Net sales by asset class, bn Equities 43% 20 Fixed income 24% 10 Alternatives 15% Property 12% 0 Money Market 6% -10 -20 Equities Fixed Alternative Property Money income investment market strategies 2008 2009 2010 2011 Source: Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 18 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Alternative Investment Strategies We have spent much of the period putting structure in place in terms of products and staff to enable us to present coherent and competitive products.
We have reorganised the Aberdeen Private Equity Fund, our main private equity investment vehicle.
We had a change in leadership in our fund of hedge funds business: while the multi-asset team based in Edinburgh has been developing new products for the UK pension market.
In terms of fund ows some 3.2 billion exited, leaving total assets under management of 24.8 billion.
Much of the outows were from lower margin passive funds.
In revenue terms, some of these declines were cushioned by performance fees from the agship capital return fund.
Performance in the funds of hedge funds has held up well, while long term relative performance in long only assets is respectable.
The Aberdeen Orbita Global Opportunities Fund was named 'fund of hedge fund of the year' at the 2011 European Fund of Hedge Fund Awards.
The multi-asset unit has won new business in the UK, noticeably within the charity sector, and there are signs of success following marketing in Europe and the Middle East.
As a primarily UK business, our ability to develop credible processes and products to meet the needs of other markets, and to benefit from our considerable distribution network, is our next priority.
Property Although the turbulence in investment markets over recent months has slowed capital placement decisions, there is evidence that real estate is seen as a safe haven at a time of financial market volatility.
Investor demand remains focused on lower risk property strategies, which suits Aberdeen well.
Although we had net outows of 0.6 billion, this was largely due to the loss of one low margin mandate in the first quarter of the financial year.
We had positive ows in the last two quarters.
We have streamlined the fund range, merging funds with similar strategies and improving the terms for well-established open end products including the European Balanced and Pan-Nordic funds.
This has broadened these funds appeal and helped to support new inows.
In Germany, we began the controlled wind-up of further DEGI retail funds, which is due to take a further three years to complete.
By contrast institutional investor demand in Germany remains reasonably healthy, enabling the launch of a new Pan-European core fund for German investors, with a portfolio of over 200 million already established.
This has led to better margins as we have experienced for the division as a whole.
The multi-manager team continues to develop its global capabilities with new products in the pipeline, and client investments being made in Europe, Asia and North America with cross-border investment becoming increasingly global, rather than regionally focused.
We have added research and product specialists in key regions and created a dedicated investment strategy group.
We now have a US investment team and we can market a global as well as a regional capability for the first time.
com 19 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Regional highlights Americas Our operations in the Americas have continued to expand.
We added staff in Toronto, So Paulo and Philadelphia, especially in distribution.
Our So Paulo ofce moved to a new location as staff increased to four.
Our commitment is to expand operations in Central and South America, using So Paulo both as an investment and, in due course, distribution hub for the region.
We have raised 9.0 billion of gross new business over the last year.
We have introduced products on several distribution platforms in the US and launched three new mutual funds: Aberdeen Asia Pacic Smaller Companies Fund, Aberdeen Ultra-Short Duration Fund and Aberdeen Emerging Markets Debt Local Currency Fund.
In our US closed end business we capitalised very successfully on the standing we have achieved as one of the world's largest managers of closed end emerging markets funds.
We have replaced the existing manager for one Asian equity vehicle and expect to be appointed as manager of two further funds.
These funds are well-regarded and further enhance Aberdeens standing in this specialist industry.
Asia Pacic Our Asian business enjoyed another strong year, principally due to continued ows into Asian and GEM equities from around the world, as well as to Asian bonds.
Interest in these asset classes provided the main thrust for retail sales.
Net mutual fund sales were 0.5 billion, led by Singapore and Taiwan.
Australia saw net outows of some 900 million, although the underlying trend is for retail assets to replace institutional ones where we are unwilling to chase decreasing fees.
Our distribution has benefited from good work on the ground and we raised 7 billion of gross assets.
Our three-year old relationship with Mitsubishi in Japan is progressing well and in Hong Kong and Singapore ows from the private bank channel are promising.
We also continued to make progress in Taiwan and Thailand, which are primarily retail markets.
We launched our first Asian bond retail product a local currency short duration fund.
We are also targeting niche growth areas.
We intend to start Islamic equity and bond funds in Malaysia for retail investors.
We are also in the process of asset raising for a new Asian property fund of funds, our third such offering.
EMEA We now have 18 ofces in 13 countries from which we actively cover 22 markets.
Our local presence has never been so strong.
We successfully capitalised on this during the year and won 27 billion of gross new business.
The UK accounts for 8 billion of this new business and we had strong sales spread across our European and Nordic ofces.
Flows in GEM and global equities were good.
As well as the successful launch of the new core property fund in Germany, there were strong ows in direct property mandates in the Nordics and the Asian Local Currency Short Duration Bond.
We are seeking to grow in the UK wholesale market and our UK financial institutions team raised 1 billion of net ows.
A part of this strategy was our sponsorship of Cowes Week for an initial term of three years.
Cowes Week, now bearing the ofcial title Aberdeen Asset Management Cowes Week, is one of the worlds best-known sailing regattas and is widely supported by UK intermediaries.
This increased brand recognition and, alongside additional resource that we have recruited, helped to raise efforts with our key strategic distributors and newly launched funds.
We are in good stead to build on the recent success in the UK wholesale market in the year ahead.
Assets by client domicile Gross sales by region FY11 43.0bn UK 30% 35 Europe ex UK 32% 30 Middle East and Africa 9% 25 Americas 17% 20 Asia Pacic 12% 15 10 5 0 Americas Asia Pacic EMEA 2008 2009 2010 2011 Source: Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 20 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 In part, through soft closing to segregated mandates on Financial review Asian and GEM equities, we have seen growth in our pooled Overview funds 5.7 billion, at the expense of segregated mandates The previous section shows how we have sought to spread our -7.4 billion.
risks by increasing diversication at product, geographic and client levels.
In this section, we look at the financial position Changes in AuM are summarised in the following table: of the Group, which has benefited from improvements in bn revenue margins and strong conversion of operating profits into operating cash ows.
At 30 September 2010 178.7 Our objective is to deliver long-term shareholder value by Net new business ows 1.7 pursuing a strategy that involves organic growth supplemented, Markets and performance 7.9 at appropriate times in the business cycle, by selective Currency 0.8 acquisitions.
We are focused on growing organically for the At 30 September 2011 169.9 foreseeable future.
Our principal aims are to grow the recurring revenues that can be generated from the assets under our At the gross level, new business ows have grown strongly, management, promoting our higher margin offerings and and have been won from a broadening range of capabilities to maintain an efficient cost base from which to service this and geographics.
There were inows of 43.0 billion during business, thus generating sustainable profits and cash ows the year 2010: 46.6 billion.
The value of net new business Revenue margins ows is the key driver of the growth in revenues and profits.
Average management fees by asset class are shown in the table AUM and ows below.
Overall revenue margin has benefited from growth in Global markets grew at the start of the year and for much of AuM equities, our highest margin asset class and the trends in the year we benefited from stronger markets.
We entered a period of extreme volatility towards the end The revenue margin for the year was 43.7bps 2010: 40.1bps, of the summer.
Our AuM suffered a decline in August and of which 41.2bps 2010: 37.4bps was earned from recurring September, falling to 169.9 billion.
The reduction in AUM was management fees.
largely caused by adverse market movements in the last two months of the financial year.
2011 2010 Average monthly AuM for 2011 was 179.6 billion compared Equities 61bps 58bps to 160.4 billion in 2010 a 12% increase.
Fixed income 23bps 22bps While it is disappointing to nish the year with net outows Money market 13bps 13bps of 1.7 billion, the effect of changes in the product mix, with Alternative investment strategies 16bps 17bps inows in higher margin products more than offsetting outows Property 50bps 49bps in lower margin products, has been to increase revenues.
We have had net ows into equities of 9 billion, as well as growing momentum of ows into our higher margin xed income products, especially Asian xed income and emerging market debt.
Our losses have been on lower margin products, including money markets, long-only multi manager and traditional xed income.
com 21 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Summary of results for 2011 Underlying Reclassications IFRS m m m Revenue 784.0 784.0 Operating expenses 474.7 77.8 552.5 Operating profit 309.3 77.8 231.5 Net finance costs 7.7 7.7 Other gains and losses 0.3 0.3 profit before taxation 301.9 77.8 224.1 Tax expense 60.2 20.0 40.2 profit after taxation 241.7 57.8 183.9 Amortisation & impairment of intangible assets 77.8 77.8 Tax on exceptional items, amortisation & impairment 20.0 20.0 profit for the year 183.9 183.9 Key performance indicators 2011 2010 2009 Change in underlying profit before taxation 44% 147% -10% Change in underlying EPS diluted 41% 110% -30% Underlying operating margin 39.5% 34.8% 22.7% Conversion of underlying operating profit to core operating cash ow 129% 115% 83% Results Operating expenses Consistent with the approach we have adopted in previous Overall, operating expenses have grown by 58.4 million 14%.
years, this business review discusses the results on the basis Staff costs increased by 20%, with non-staff costs growing of presentation adopted for management purposes, which by 7%.
The main increase in staff costs was the expense for separates exceptional items, amortisation and impairment the share based element of bonus awards.
In part, this is due from the underlying revenues and costs which drive the Group's to the Group's improved profits and consequent increase in recurring cash ow.
The Board believes that discussing the performance-related awards to our teams.
In addition, having results in this way will provide more helpful information to established a pattern of paying a substantial portion of the investors, and the Group income statement on page 63 has bonus in deferred shares, we now recognise these costs from been presented in a manner which enables this distinction.
the start of the service period, rather than from the award date.
This accounts for 7% of the increase.
Our compensation ratio of Revenue for the year increased by 23% to 784.0 million, 35% 2010: 36% remains competitive within our peer group.
while underlying operating expenses grew by 14% to 474.7 million: underlying operating profit consequently grew by 39% Third party administration costs remain tightly controlled and, to 309.3 million.
Net finance costs amounted to 7.7 million as previously agged, benefited from fund mergers.
The one 2010: 11.9 million, resulting in an underlying profit before area where we have deliberately increased spend is marketing, taxation of 301.9 million, a 44% increase on 2010. where we continue to build market awareness of our brand across our global markets.
There have been no exceptional costs Revenue incurred since the completion of the integration of the Credit Revenue increased by 23% to 784.0 million.
Management Suisse business in early 2010. fees grew by 24% to 739.2 million with performance fees growing by 20% to 36.3 million.
The major part of the growth Operating profit and margin came from recurring management fees which, at 94% of total Underlying operating profit for 2011 was 39% higher at revenues 2010: 94%, provide a high quality base on which 309.3 million, representing an operating margin of 39.5% to build.
22 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Net finance costs Coupon on 7.9% perpetual subordinated capital securities The main elements of net finance costs are interest paid on The coupon payable on these equity securities, which were the bonds issued by the Group and on bank borrowings drawn issued in 2007 to introduce additional exibility to the capital from time to time, less interest earned on cash balances.
Net structure, is fully deductible for UK tax purposes, so that the finance costs have decreased signicantly from 11.9 million in post-tax cost is approximately 5.8% pa.
This is considerably less 2010 to 7.7 million this year, reecting the repayment of the than the cost of ordinary share capital, currently estimated at subordinated debt in July, no draw down of the revolving credit around 10.4% pa. facility during the year and the build up of cash balances.
Dividends Tax An interim dividend of 3.8p per share was paid to ordinary The effective tax rate, dened as the tax charge divided by profit shareholders in June 2011 and the Board is recommending before taxation, was 19.9% in 2011.
This relatively low rate is payment of a final dividend of 5.2p per share, resulting in achieved because significant elements of the Groups profits are a total payment for 2011 of 9.0p, a 29% increase on 2010. earned in jurisdictions which charge tax at lower rates than the This dividend is covered approximately 2.1 times by diluted UK corporation tax rate of 27%.
The rate is slightly higher than underlying earnings per share and is fully covered by diluted last year, reecting higher profits in the UK and Europe.
earnings per share, stated after amortisation, impairment and exceptional items.
Earnings per share As discussed above, the Board believes that the most Cash ow appropriate measure of the Groups profitability is the The year to 30 September 2011 has seen extremely strong cash underlying diluted EPS number, which excludes from its ow, with operating profit of 309.3 million turned into calculation exceptional costs, exceptional income and gains 399.3 million of core operating cash ow, a conversion rate and the amortisation and impairment charges on intangible of 129% 2010: 115%.
The operating cash ow excludes the assets.
On this measure the Groups underlying diluted EPS has effect of short term timing differences on settlement accounts increased by 41% to 18.7p per share.
which are generally settled within four working days and any acquisition related expenses, including deferred consideration.
The Groups cash ow performance over the last three years is set out in the following table.
Cash ow performance 2011 2010 2009 m m m Core cash ow from operating activities 399.3 254.6 84.3 Short term timing differences on open end fund settlements 7.9 0.4 4.7 Operating cash ow before interest and tax 407.2 255.0 79.6 Interest and tax paid 33.5 26.9 37.3 Cash ow from operating activities after interest and tax 373.7 228.1 42.3 Maintenance capital expenditure 5.9 6.5 6.8 Dividends and coupons paid 105.5 90.6 61.5 Recurring free cash ow 262.3 131.0 26.0 Exceptional costs and gains 7.3 15.5 25.3 Acquisitions and disposals 5.7 102.4 33.8 Purchase sales of investments 11.9 29.1 13.9 Debt repaid drawn 77.9 90.9 31.8 Issue of share capital 115.8 0.8 Purchase of own shares 98.1 2.2 0.3 Exchange uctuations 2.7 4.5 Movement in cash and cash equivalents 58.7 69.4 0.7 www.
com 23 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Financial position Total equity increased by 49.6 million to 1,234.5 million at 30 September 2011.
The main components of this increase were as follows: Changes in equity m profit for the year 183.9 Net income recognised directly in other comprehensive income 6.9 Issue of equity 0.2 Preference dividends paid 0.3 Coupon paid on perpetual capital securities 14.2 Ordinary dividends paid 85.8 Movement in non-controlling interest 2.6 Release from reserves to match charge for share-based payments in Income Statement 54.4 Purchase of own shares 98.1 Increase in total equity 49.6 Capital and liquidity Pension deficits The Group aims to have a strong balance sheet with low The net deficit on the Groups legacy dened benefit pension gearing.
The Group has used the cash generated from the schemes has decreased to 24.3 million at 30 September 2011, business to pay a progressive dividend, with a total payment compared to a net deficit of 35.0 million at the previous year of 9.0p proposed for 2011. end.
Assets held by the schemes have increased by 10.3 million from a combination of improvements in markets and increased The Group moved from net borrowings of 7.7 million at employer contributions.
One of the schemes also benefited 30 September 2010 to net cash of 127.5 million at from a fide-risking strategy put in place by the trustees.
During the year we repaid the US$125 the value attributed to the liabilities of the schemes decreased million subordinated debt, which is part of our strategy to use slightly by 1.1 million.
In estimating the liabilities, we are operating cash ows to strengthen the balance sheet.
We spent required by IAS 19 to use a discount rate calculated by reference 98.1 million buying shares in the market to satisfy outstanding to the yield on AA-rated corporate bonds.
The discount rate deferred share awards.
This negates potential EPS dilution from used this year is 5.1%, compared to 5.0% in 2010 which helped vesting of deferred awards.
in the decrease in the liabilities of the schemes.
The Groups We negotiated new revolving credit facilities on improved ongoing cash contribution to these schemes was increased terms with our lenders.
At the year end the Group had access by 1.8 million to 8.0 million per annum.
Contributions are to 100 million of committed but undrawn bank facilities and expected to increase to 9.3 million in the next financial year.
an overdraft facility, also undrawn, of 20 million, in addition to cash resources of 209.5 million.
These facilities are used for the management of working capital requirements including the provision of seed capital to enable fund launches.
The Groups liquidity position remains very robust.
24 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Liquidity risk Risk management The Group's approach to managing liquidity risk is to ensure, Principal risks and uncertainties as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to In common with many businesses, the Group is exposed to a meet its liabilities when due under both normal and stressed range of risks.
Some of these risks are an inherent part of the conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking business, such as taking investment decisions on behalf of damage to the Group's reputation.
Details of the bank facilities clients and our energies are focused on managing this risk, available to the Group are provided in note 27.
The headroom as opposed to eliminating it.
between available facilities and amounts drawn is substantial, and will be maintained at a healthy level in future, using The management of risk is embedded in the culture of the committed borrowing facilities where necessary to supplement Group and the way we conduct our business.
This is managed cash resources retained by the Group.
at an executive level through the risk management committee which, together with the risk, compliance and internal audit Credit risk departments, is responsible for overseeing the implementation We face credit risk as a result of counter party exposure.
of our risk strategies: this involves the provision of regular We monitor the credit worthiness of our major counter parties.
reports to the Audit Committee, Risk Committee and the Board.
This includes actively monitoring credit ratings from rating In order to mitigate risk, the Group manages risk in a variety agencies at the banks where we deposit cash.
of ways depending on the nature of the risk and the areas of Foreign currency risk potential impact.
Revenues are earned principally from fees which are calculated On pages 8 and 9, we have given an overview of our business on the basis of the value of AuM managed for clients and many model and strategy and the risks associated with this approach.
mandates include investments valued in currencies other than The risks described in that section include: movements in sterling.
Fluctuations in the rates at which overseas currencies AuM due to markets and investment performance: loss of key are convertible to sterling can therefore affect the value of investment personnel: reputation damage: failure to retain the Groups revenues on an ongoing basis.
The fact that we clients: breach of regulatory capital requirements: and business operate on a global basis, with ofces in a number of countries continuity or third party administrator failure.
In addition to worldwide, means that a proportion of operating costs is these risks, the principal financial risks that we are exposed also incurred in foreign currencies and coupons on the 7.9% to include: perpetual capital securities is incurred in US dollars.
Variations in the sterling value of these operating costs and interest cost will, Interest rate risk to an extent, offset any similar impact of uctuating exchange We finance our activities from a combination of equity, rates on revenues and the Board has therefore decided that including perpetual capital securities and preference shares, and it is not appropriate to undertake any specic hedging of the debt.
Coupon payments on the perpetual capital securities and Group's US dollar exposure.
preference dividends are payable, at the discretion of the Board, at xed rates.
Bank borrowings under the Groups revolving Fair value of financial instruments credit facilities are drawn in the desired currency at variable As explained in note 31 to the accounts, there is no material interest rates.
The convertible bonds issued in December 2009 difference between the book value and fair value of financial bear interest at a xed rate throughout their five year life.
The instruments as at 30 September 2011.
Board believes that the balance between oating rate and xed rate borrowings is appropriate to the Groups business needs and will continue to monitor this position on a regular basis.
Martin Gilbert Bill Rattray Chief Executive Finance Director www.
