7 Directors Report The information presented by the Directors in this Directors Signi cant changes in the state of affairs of the Group that occurred Report relates to BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc and their during FY2011 and signi cant post-balance date events are set out subsidiaries.
The Chairmans Review in section 1.2, Chief Executive below and in sections 2.2 and 3 of this Annual Report.
Of cers Report in section 1.3 and section 1 Key information, There were changes to the composition of the Board during section 2 Information on the Company, section 3 Operating FY2011.
Alan Boeckmann retired from the Board on 23 March and financial review and prospects and section 11 Shareholder 2011.
Shriti Vadera and Lindsay Maxsted were appointed to information of this Annual Report are each incorporated by the Board with effect from 1 January 2011 and 23 March 2011 reference into, and form part of, this Directors Report.
respectively, and have also been appointed members of the Risk and Audit Committee, with Mr Maxsted appointed as Chairman of the Risk and Audit Committee effective from 7.1 Principal activities, state of affairs 6 September 2011.
Ms Vadera and Mr Maxsted will seek and business review election at the 2011 Annual General Meetings.
The UK Companies Act 2006 requires this Directors Report to On 2 July 2010, we announced that BHP Billiton was encouraged by the Australian Governments decision to replace the proposed include a fair review of the business of the Group during FY2011 and of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year Resource Super Pro ts Tax with a proposed Minerals Resource Rent Tax on mined iron ore and coal from 1 July 2012.
The Minerals and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group known as the business review.
In addition to the Resource Rent Tax is subject to passing by the Australian Parliament and may differ wholly or in part in its final form.
BHP Billiton will information set out below, the information that ful ls the requirements of the business review can be found in the following continue to work constructively with the Australian Government to ensure the detailed design of minerals taxation maintains the sections of this Annual Report which are each incorporated by reference into this Directors Report : international competitiveness of the Australian resources industry into the future.
Section Reference On 24 September 2010, we announced approval for the development of the Macedon gas eld in the Exmouth Sub-basin, Western Key performance indicators 1.4 and 3.3 Australia.
BHP Billitons expected share of costs is approximately Risk factors 1.5 US$1,050 million.
The Macedon project is a joint venture between BHP Billiton 71.43 per cent and Apache Northwest 28.57 per cent.
Business overview 2.2 First production is expected during CY2013.
Sustainable development 2.8 On 18 October 2010, BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto announced their joint decision to end plans for an iron ore production joint venture Employees 2.9 in the Pilbara in Western Australia following extensive discussions Financial review 3 with regulators.
On 15 November 2010, we announced the withdrawal of our A review of the operations of the Group during FY2011, the results offer to acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of those operations during FY2011 and the expected results of those of Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan Inc.
The all-cash offer operations in future financial years, is set out in sections 1.2, 1.3, 2.2 was announced on 18 August 2010 and subsequently amended and 3 and other material in this Annual Report.
Information on the on 20 September 2010.
BHP Billiton determined that the condition development of the Group and likely developments in future years of its offer relating to receipt of a net bene t determination by the also appear in those sections of this Annual Report.
The Directors Minister of Industry under the Investment Canada Act could not believe that to include further information on those matters and be satis ed.
on the strategies and expected results of the operations of the On 20 January 2011, we announced the approval of increased Group in this Annual Report would be likely to result in unreasonable capital expenditure for the Esso Australia operated Kipper and prejudice to the Group.
Turrum projects in the Gippsland Basin, offshore Victoria.
Kippers expenditure has increased to US$900 million BHP Billiton share Our principal activities during FY2011 were minerals exploration, and the facilities are now forecast to be completed in CY2012.
development, production and processing in respect of bauxite, Turrums expenditure has been adjusted to US$1,350 million alumina, aluminium, copper, silver, lead, zinc, molybdenum, gold, BHP Billiton share and is now forecast to begin production iron ore, metallurgical coal, energy coal, nickel, manganese ore, in CY2013.
manganese metal and alloys, diamonds, titanium minerals, potash and uranium, and oil and gas exploration, development and On 22 February 2011, we announced our agreement to acquire production.
No signi cant changes in the nature of any of the all of Chesapeake Energy Corporations interests in the Fayetteville Groups principal activities occurred during FY2011.
Shale, US, including the midstream pipeline system, for US$4.75 billion.
Chesapeakes Fayetteville Shale assets include approximately 487,000 acres of leasehold and producing natural gas properties located in Arkansas, US.
On 24 March 2011, we announced the approval of US$7.4 billion BHP Billiton share US$6.6 billion of capital investment to continue production growth in the Companys Western Australian Iron Ore operations.
This followed an earlier announcement on 17 November 2010 of a further US$635 million BHP Billiton share US$570 million of capital expenditure.
This additional capital expenditure will facilitate the ongoing development of important port, rail and Jimblebar mine infrastructure.
The investment will deliver an integrated operation with capacity in excess of 220 million tonnes per annum mtpa on a 100 per cent basis.
150 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information On 18 August 2011, we arranged a new unsecured 364-day 7.1 Principal activities, state of affairs multicurrency term and revolving credit facility for an amount of and business review continued US$7.5 billion consisting of two tranches: a US$5 billion term loan On 24 March 2011, we announced the approval of three and US$2.5 billion revolving credit facility.
metallurgical coal projects located in the Bowen Basin in Central On 21 August 2011, we announced the successful completion Queensland.
The projects will add 4.9 million tonnes Mt of of the cash tender offer to acquire Petrohawk Energy Corporation annual mine capacity 100 per cent basis through development in the US for US$38.75 per share, representing a total equity value of the Daunia operation and a new mining area at Broadmeadow.
of approximately US$12.1 billion and a total enterprise value In addition, 11 Mt of annual port capacity 100 per cent basis will of approximately US$15.1 billion, including the assumption be developed at the Hay Point Coal Terminal.
The total investment of net debt.
Combined with the Fayetteville Shale acquisition, is US$5 billion, of which BHP Billitons share is US$2.5 billion.
this expands BHP Billitons interest in US shale.
On 24 March 2011, we announced the approval of US$400 million No other matter or circumstance has arisen since the end of FY2011 investment to expand Hunter Valley Energy Coal in New South that has signi cantly affected or is expected to signi cantly affect Wales.
The expansion, known as the RX1 Project, will enable the operations, the results of operations or state of affairs of the Mt Arthur Coals run-of-mine thermal coal production to increase Group in future years.
by 4 mtpa to approximately 24 mtpa.
On 30 March 2011, we announced approval for the Escondida 7.2 Share capital and buy-back programs Ore Access project, which will relocate the crushing and conveying facilities currently located inside Escondidas main pit to improve The BHP Billiton share buy-back program was reactivated after access to higher-grade ore and thereby support higher production being suspended since FY2008.
The project is expected to cost US$554 million At the Annual General Meetings held in 2010, shareholders US$319 million BHP Billiton share and will be completed by mid CY2012.
authorised BHP Billiton Plc to make on-market purchases of up to 223,112,120 of its ordinary shares, representing approximately On 11 April 2011, we announced the completion of a US$6 billion 10 per cent of BHP Billiton Plcs issued share capital at that time.
off-market tender buy-back of BHP Billiton Limited shares.
Shareholders will be asked at the 2011 Annual General Meetings 147 million shares 4.4 per cent of BHP Billiton Limiteds issued to renew this authority.
share capital were bought back at a price of A$40.85 per share.
BHP Billitons capital management program for BHP Billiton Plc During FY2011, 94.9 million ordinary shares in BHP Billiton Plc, was reactivated on 16 November 2010 and expanded to US$10 billion with a nominal value of US$0.50 per share and representing to apply to the Groups issued capital on 16 February 2011.
4.3 per cent of BHP Billiton Plcs issued share capital, were Completion of the expanded US$10 billion capital management purchased by BHP Billiton Limited, and immediately transferred program was announced on 30 June 2011. to BHP Billiton Plc for nil consideration and cancellation.
On 29 April 2011, we announced that the partners of Samarco These shares were bought back at an average price of 23.96 had approved the US$3.5 billion BHP Billiton share US$1.75 billion for an aggregate consideration of US$3,678 million to return Fourth Pellet Plant Project at Samarco in Brazil.
The expansion will value to shareholders under our capital management program.
increase Samarco iron ore pellet production capacity by 8.3 mtpa This represented a discount to the average BHP Billiton Limited to 30.5 mtpa 100 per cent basis.
share price over the buy-back period being 16 November 2010 to 29 June 2011 of 16.4 per cent.
The completion of this program On 1 June 2011, we welcomed the High Courts decision in favour was announced on 30 June 2011. of BHP Billiton in its dispute with the Australian Taxation Of ce over certain tax issues relating to BHP Billitons former Hot In February 2011, BHP Billiton Limited commenced an Briquetted Iron project.
As a result of the resolution of the entire off-market share buy-back program under which 146.9 million dispute with the Australian Taxation Of ce over these issues, shares of BHP Billiton Limited, representing 4.4 per cent of an income tax credit of US$718 million has been recognised BHP Billiton Limiteds issued share capital, were purchased as an exceptional item in the financial results.
These shares were bought back On 23 June 2011, we announced the completion of the budget at an average price of A$40.85 for an aggregate consideration and schedule review for the Worsley Ef ciency and Growth of US$6.3 billion to return value to shareholders under our capital project.
The capital cost estimate for the project, encompassing management program.
This represented a discount to the the development of the Marradong mine, re nery expansion BHP Billiton Limited market price of A$47.50 volume weighted and connection to a multi-fuel cogeneration unit, has increased average price VWAP of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares to US$2,995 million BHP Billiton share.
over the five trading days up to and including the closing date On 23 June 2011, we announced the approval for US$488 million of 8 April 2011 of 14 per cent.
We did not make any on-market of further investment to support development of the Jansen Potash share purchases of BHP Billiton Limited shares during FY2011.
This additional pre-commitment Some of our executives receive options over BHP Billiton shares capital will fund site preparation and the procurement of long as part of their remuneration arrangements.
Entitlements may lead time items during the projects feasibility study.
Based on the be satis ed by the transfer of existing shares, which are acquired current schedule, Jansen is expected to start producing saleable on-market, or in respect of some entitlements, by the issue potash in CY2015.
On 9 August 2011, we signed a Heads of Agreement with Leighton The shares in column A below were purchased to satisfy Holdings to acquire the HWE Mining subsidiaries that provide awards made under the various BHP Billiton Limited and contract mining services to our Western Australia Iron Ore BHP Billiton Plc employee share schemes, and those shares operations.
The purchase price is US$735 million, subject to purchased in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc as part working capital assumptions.
The fide nitive agreements are of our capital management program during FY2011.
subject to due diligence and relevant internal and regulatory approvals.
It is expected to close during the fourth quarter of CY2011.
b On 15 November 2010, the share buy-back program was reactivated.
c While BHP Billiton Limited is able to buy-back and cancel BHP Billiton Limited shares within the 10 12 limit without shareholder approval in accordance with section 257B of the Australian Corporations Act 2001, BHP Billiton Limited has not resumed the on-market share buy-back program that was suspended as of 30 September 2007.
Any future on-market share buy-back program will be conducted in accordance with the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and with the ASX Listing Rules.
d At the Annual General Meetings held during 2010, shareholders authorised BHP Billiton Plc to make on-market purchases of up to 223,112,120 of its ordinary shares, representing approximately 10 per cent of BHP Billiton Plcs issued share capital at that time.
e This number includes the 146.9 million shares purchased under the BHP Billiton Limited off-market buy-back.
152 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 7.5.
2 Directors 7.3 Results, financial instruments and going concern The tables contained in section 7.20 of this Directors Report Information about our financial position and financial results set out the relevant interests in shares in BHP Billiton Limited and is included in the financial statements in this Annual Report.
BHP Billiton Plc of the Directors who held of ce during FY2011, The income statement shows pro t attributable to BHP Billiton at the beginning and end of FY2011, and in relation to all Directors members of US$23,648 million compared with US$12,722 million in of ce as at the date of this Directors Report, their relevant in 2010. interests in shares in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely as at the date of this Directors Report.
No rights or options over to affect its future development, performance and position are shares in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are held by any discussed in section 3 of this Annual Report.
In addition, section 5.6 of the Non-executive Directors.
Interests held by the Executive and note 28 Financial risk management to the financial statements Director under share and option plans as at 30 June 2011 are detail the Groups capital management objectives, its approach to set out in the tables showing interests in incentive plans contained financial risk management and exposure to financial risks, liquidity in section 6.4.
3 and note 30 Key Management Personnel in the and borrowing facilities.
Each of these sections is incorporated into, financial statements of this Annual Report.
and forms part of, this Directors Report.
We have not made available to any Director any interest in a registered scheme.
The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue The former Directors of BHP Limited participated in a retirement in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Therefore plan under which they were entitled to receive a payment on they continue to adopt the going-concern basis of accounting retirement calculated by reference to years of service.
This plan in preparing the annual financial statements.
was closed on 24 October 2003, and bene ts accrued to that date are held by BHP Billiton Limited and will be paid on retirement.
Further information about this plan and its closure are set out 7.4 Directors in section 6.6.
The Directors who served at any time during or since the end 7.5.
3 GMC members of the financial year were Jacques Nasser, Marius Kloppers, Alan Boeckmann, Malcolm Broomhead, John Buchanan, The table contained in section 7.21 of this Directors Report sets Carlos Cordeiro, David Crawford, Carolyn Hewson, Lindsay Maxsted, out the relevant interests held by members of the GMC other than Wayne Murdy, Keith Rumble, John Schubert and Shriti Vadera.
Directors in shares of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc at Further details of the Directors of BHP Billiton Limited and the beginning and end of FY2011, and at the date of this Directors BHP Billiton Plc are set out in section 4.1 of this Annual Report.
Interests held by members of the GMC under share and These details include the period for which each Director held option plans as at 30 June 2011 are set out in the tables showing of ce up to the date of this Directors Report, their quali cations, interests in incentive plans contained in section 6.4.
3 and note 30 experience and particular responsibilities, the directorships held Key Management Personnel in the financial statements of this in other listed companies since 1 July 2008, and the period for Annual Report.
which each directorship has been held.
Mr Boeckmann retired as a Director of BHP Billiton Limited and 7.6 Secretaries BHP Billiton Plc with effect from 23 March 2011, having been Jane McAloon is the Group Company Secretary.
Details of her a Director since September 2008. quali cations and experience are set out in section 4.1 of this Ms Vadera was appointed as a Director of BHP Billiton Limited and Annual Report.
The following people also act as the Company BHP Billiton Plc with effect from 1 January 2011 and Mr Maxsted Secretaries of either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc: was appointed a Director with effect from 23 March 2011.
Elisabeth Joyner, BA Jurisprudence, LLM, FCIS, Deputy Company Secretary BHP Billiton Limited, and Geof Stapledon, BEc LLB Hons, The number of meetings of the Board and its Committees held DPhil, FCIS, Deputy Company Secretary BHP Billiton Plc and during the year and each Directors attendance at those meetings Elizabeth Hobley, BA Hons, ACIS, Deputy Company Secretary are set out in sections 5.3.
Each such individual has experience in a company secretariat role arising from time spent in such roles within 7.5 Remuneration and share interests BHP Billiton, large listed companies or other relevant entities.
1 Remuneration The policy for determining the nature and amount of emoluments of members of the Group Management Committee GMC including the Executive Director and the Non-executive Directors and information about the relationship between that policy and our performance are set out in sections 6.2, 6.4 and 6.6 of this Annual Report.
The remuneration tables contained in sections 6.4 and 6.5 of this Annual Report set out the remuneration of members of the GMC including the Executive Director and the Non-executive Directors.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 153 7 Directors Report continued Effective communication and employee engagement is critical for 7.7 Indemnities and insurance maintaining open and productive relationships between leaders Rule 146 of the BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and Article 146 and employees.
All employees receive communication on BHP Billiton of the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association require each Company goals and performance, as well as on important issues such as health to indemnify to the extent permitted by law, each Director, Secretary and safety and the environment and the Code of Business Conduct.
or executive of cer of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc Our Code is founded on Our Charter values, which make an respectively against liability incurred in, or arising out of, the unquali ed commitment to working with integrity.
Communication conduct of the business of the Company or the discharge of the is undertaken through a variety of channels, including the internet, duties of the Director, Secretary or executive of cer.
The Directors intranet, email, newsletters and other means designed to cater named in section 4.1 of this Annual Report, the executive for the local environment.
These tools are also used to facilitate of cers and the Company Secretaries of BHP Billiton Limited employee feedback, as are a variety of consultative processes.
and BHP Billiton Plc have the bene t of this requirement, Dispute and grievance handling processes are also in place to as do individuals who formerly held one of those positions.
assist in equitably addressing workplace issues in all businesses.
A Business Conduct Advisory Service operates worldwide to allow In accordance with this requirement, BHP Billiton Limited and concerns to be raised about conduct that is out of step with BHP Billiton Plc have entered into Deeds of Indemnity, Access Our Charter values, our policies and procedures or the law.
and Insurance Deeds of Indemnity with each of their respective Directors.
The Deeds of Indemnity are qualifying third party Our all-employee share purchase plan, Shareplus, is available to indemnity provisions for the purposes of the UK Companies all employees, except where local regulations limit operation of the Act 2006. scheme.
In these instances, alternative arrangements are in place.
As at 30 June 2011, approximately 43 per cent of employees were We have a policy that we will, as a general rule, support and participants in Shareplus.
The Shareplus employee plan is described hold harmless an employee, including an employee appointed in section 6.2.
Short-term and long-term as a Director of a subsidiary who, while acting in good faith, incentive schemes also operate across the Group.
Rewards for incurs personal liability to others as a result of working for us.
individuals are predicated on the need to meet targets relating From time to time, we engage our External Auditor, KPMG, to our Companys performance in areas such as health, safety to conduct non-statutory audit work and provide other services and achievement of financial measures and on the personal in accordance with our policy on the provision of other services performance of each employee.
The terms of engagement include an All employees are entitled to balanced and realistic feedback indemnity in favour of KPMG: coupled with the identi cation of development and training needs against all losses, claims, costs, expenses, actions, demands, to help maximise their performance and realise their full potential.
damages, liabilities or any proceedings liabilities incurred In FY2011, 71 per cent of employees participated in a formal by KPMG in respect of third party claims arising from a breach performance review process.
Due to industrial agreements, not all by the Group under the engagement terms: employees are able to participate in individual performance reviews.
for all liabilities KPMG has to the Group or any third party The importance we place on employee development and training as a result of reliance on information provided by the Group is demonstrated by the signi cant amount of training our that is false, misleading or incomplete.
We have insured against amounts that we may be liable to pay BHP Billiton is committed to developing and maintaining a diverse to Directors, Company Secretaries or certain employees pursuant workforce and providing a work environment in which every to Rule 146 of the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and Article 146 employee is treated fairly and with respect.
We work actively to avoid of the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc or that we otherwise discrimination on any basis, including disability.
Where an employee agree to pay by way of indemnity.
The insurance policy also insures suffers some disability while they are employed, we work to identify Directors, Company Secretaries and some employees against certain roles that meet their skill, experience and capability, and in some liabilities including legal costs they may incur in carrying out their cases offer retraining.
We also work hard to offer exible work duties for us.
practices, where this is possible, taking into account the needs of the We have paid premiums for this Directors and Of cers insurance employee and those of the particular workplace.
Our remuneration of US$2,335,600 net during FY2011.
Directors, Company Secretaries policy and employment packages, which must comply with local and employees contribute to the premium for this insurance.
regulations, are based on merit, aligned to our business requirements and suf ciently attractive to recruit and retain the best people.
No indemnity in favour of a current or former of cer of BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc, or in favour of the Our employees can access our Annual Reports either via the intranet External Auditor, has been called on during FY2011.
7.8 Employee policies and involvement 7.9 Environmental performance We are committed to open, honest and productive relationships Particulars in relation to environmental performance are referred with our employees.
At BHP Billiton, we recognise the most to in sections 2.8, 3.3, and 7.22 of this Annual Report and in the important ingredient for success is our talented and motivated Sustainability Report, available at www.
workforce, whose members demonstrate behaviours that are aligned to Our Charter values.
We have an integrated people strategy to effectively attract, retain and develop talented people.
Our approach is outlined in our Human Resources Policy, the Code of Business Conduct and the Group Level Documents that prescribe what we will do and how we will do it.
All of these documents are published and accessible to employees.
