Directors Report The Directors present the annual report and financial statements of priced opportunities for investment, then up to 25% of the portfolio the Company and its subsidiary for the year ended 31 December 2011. may be held in cash or cash equivalents.
Risk is spread by investing in a number of holdings, many of which themselves are diversified Business Review companies.
Principal activity The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
Its principal The Group may also occasionally utilise derivative instruments such as activity is portfolio investment and that of its subsidiary, BlackRock options, futures and contracts, if it is deemed that these will, at a World Mining Investment Company Limited, is investment dealing.
particular time or for a particular period, enhance the performance of the Group in the pursuit of its objectives.
It is the Boards policy that Status of the Company the aggregate exposure to such derivatives does not exceed 10% of the In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has conducted its affairs gross assets of the Group.
during the year under review, and subsequently, so as to qualify as an investment trust for the purposes of Chapter 4 of Part 24 of the Although investments are principally in companies listed on recognised Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The last accounting period for which the stock exchanges, the Company may invest up to 10% of its gross Company has been treated as approved as an investment trust by assets in unquoted securities.
As at 31 December 2011, the Company HM Revenue & Customs HMRC was for the year ended held seven unquoted investments.
Unquoted investments can prove to 31 December 2010.
It is the Companys intention to continue to seek be more volatile than listed investments.
Of these, five investments are approval under Chapter 4 of Part 24 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 considered to be sufficiently illiquid to be held at Directors valuation, in respect of the year to 31 December 2011 and then to make an these being Australian Energy Corporation, African Minerals 11.5% application under Regulation 5 of the Investment Trust Approved bond, Gentor Resources Inc. Ivanhoe Nickel & Platinum Ltd. and Company Tax Regulations 2011 for investment trust status to apply Grafton Resource Investments Limited.
The Company is also permitted to all accounting periods starting on or after 1 January 2012. to enter into stock lending arrangements.
The Company is registered as an investment company as defined in It is the Boards current policy that the Company will not invest in any section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as such.
holding that would represent more than 10% of its gross assets at the The Company is not a close company within the meaning of the time of acquisition.
In addition, while the Company may hold shares in provisions of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and, as the Directors are other listed investment companies including investment trusts, the non-executive, has no employees.
Board has agreed that the Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross assets in other UK listed investment companies.
The Companys shares are eligible for inclusion in the stocks and shares component of an Individual Savings Account.
The Groups accounts are maintained in sterling.
Although many investments are denominated and quoted in currencies other than Continuation of the Company sterling, the Group does not intend to employ a hedging policy against As agreed by shareholders in 1998, an ordinary resolution for the fluctuations in exchange rates.
continuance of the Company is proposed at each Annual General Meeting.
The Company has a strong investment record, providing Information regarding the Companys investment exposures is excellent returns to shareholders, and the Directors recommend contained within the ten largest investments on pages 12 and 13, support of the continuation vote.
the investments listing on pages 14 to 16, and portfolio analysis on page 17.
Further information regarding investment risk and activity Investment policy throughout the year can be found in the Investment Managers Report.
The Companys investment policy is to provide a diversified investment in quoted mining and metal securities worldwide, actively managed Gearing with the objective of maximising total returns.
Up to 10% of the gross The Investment Manager believes that tactical use of gearing can add assets of the Company and its subsidiary, BlackRock World Mining value from time to time.
This gearing is typically in the form of an Investment Company Limited the Group, may be invested in overdraft or short term loan facility, which can be repaid at any time.
No material change will be made to the investment policy without shareholder approval.
The level and benefit of gearing is discussed and agreed with the Board regularly.
The Investment Manager generally aims to be fully It is intended that the Group will normally be fully invested, which invested and it is anticipated that gearing will not exceed 15% of the means at least 90% will be invested in stocks, shares and physical Groups net assets.
At the financial reporting date, net gearing stood metals.
However, if such investments are deemed to be overvalued, or at 2.5% of shareholders funds.
For further details refer to note 14 on if the Investment Manager finds it difficult to identify attractively page 47.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2011 19
