B USI NESS REVI Ew: RISkS AND UNCERTAI N T I ES Risks to the business are reviewed by the Risk Management Committee and monitored by Investment Management Risk and Controls Committee and the Corporate Advisory and Broking Risk and Controls Committee: they are formally reviewed by the Board twice a year.
The Groups risk management policies and procedures are also discussed in the Corporate Governance Statement and financial risks and risk management form partofnote 26 to the financial statements.
The principal risk to the business remains adverse movements in the market in the shortterm.
At the Board meeting in October 2011 the following major financial and non financial risks were identified or reconfirmed: Risk Type Risk Key Mitigators Credit risk Counterparty risk Counterparty monitoring for both liquidity and performance as well as intra-day, daily and weekly reports to Group Head of Dealing.
All institutional transactions are cash against delivery.
High value trades monitored and authorised daily.
Earnings risk Wide staff shareholdings.
Contracts of employment with six months garden leave.
Remuneration structure and deferred profit share lock in staff.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk No client money is held in fixed interest term deposits.
Liquidity risk Bank default and other Several banks are used to hold both clients and firms money: with levels being constantly reviewed.
systemic risk Only bank with major UK clearers.
Capital adequacy Capital adequacy surplus maintained greater than regulatory requirement.
Legal and Data protection Systems and controls in place to restrict access to client and employee data including: Regulatory risk Centralised control of client data: Clear desk policy: Data Protection Policy and Data Protection Steering Group: and Secure disposal of sensitive documents.
Fast changing regulatory environment Strong and proactive Regulation & Risk and Internal Audit functions.
leading to breach of rules New business and product lines New business and product lines reviewed by the Project Boards.
Poor advice portfolio performance See below Poor Investment Performance.
including mis-selling Operational Business continuity Large branch network with back up systems in place.
and IT risk Back up computer site.
Main server located outside London.
Data integrity Change to data requires authorisation.
Information Security due diligence visits to third party suppliers.
Electronic dealing errors Close management supervision.
Multiple validation on equity trading platform.
Supplier capacity Service Level agreements.
Significant strategic change Board approval of new business initiatives taking into account due diligence.
Project control Regular meetings by Project Overview committee consisting of Senior Managers and Board Executives.
Electronic tracking of resources and full project documentation testing.
1 4 | B R E w I N D OL P h I N hOL DI N g S P L C Risk Type Risk Key Mitigators Other risk Financial crime Segregation of duties.
Acquisition of new teams Strong vetting system for new recruits.
Reputational Poor investment performance Good in-house research.
Strong training and appraisal programme.
Treating customers fairly embedded into the ethos of the firm.
Adverse publicity Media Policy, only authorised employees may communicate with the media.
Settlement Settlement failure Experienced management team monitors settlement performance.
Business Review: Cautionary Statement This review has been prepared solely to provide additional information to shareholders to assess the Groups strategies and the potential for these strategies to succeed.
It should not be relied on by any other party for any other purpose.
The review contains forward looking statements these statements are made by the Directors in good faith based on information available to them up to the time of the approval of these reports and should be treated with caution due to inherent uncertainties associated with such statements.
The Directors, in preparing this Business Review have complied with s417 of the Companies Act 2006.
