Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report ACTIVITY together with the audited financial statements of the The Companys activity is to pursue the objective Company for the period ended 31 March 2011. through operating as an investment company.
A review of the years activities and an indication of likely future The Company was incorporated in England and Wales developments and the factors likely to affect this are on 22 January 2010 under the registered number given in the Chairmans Statement on pages 3 and 4 and 7133583 and re-registered as a public limited company in the Managers Report on pages 5 to 7.
The Board on 24 February 2010. supports these views.
STATUS FIDELITYS INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT The Company carries on business as an investment PHILOSOPHY, STYLE AND PROCESS company and intends to seek provisional approval as Fidelitys distinctive investment approach is bottom up such by HM Revenue & Customs under Section 1159 of stock picking investing in companies on the basis of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 for the accounting period their underlying strengths, facilitated by extensive to 31 March 2011, although this approval may be subject research capabilities.
to review should there be any subsequent enquiry under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
The Directors Fidelity has had a presence in Asia since 1969 and now are of the opinion that the Company has conducted has offices in seven countries across the region, including its affairs in a manner which will satisfy the conditions in three cities in mainland China and in Hong Kong.
for continued approval as an investment company under that Section.
The Hong Kong office is Fidelitys second largest in the region, with approximately 40 investment professionals, The Company is not a close company and has no ranging from analysts to portfolio managers.
The Company has given notice to the Fidelity has over 7,000 investment professionals and Registrar of Companies of its intention to carry on research associates with a hands-on approach to business as an investment company as defined in knowledge accumulation.
Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as such.
The analysts in the Hong Kong Investment team evaluate companies, meet their managements and BUSINESS REVIEW interpret the effects of international and local events.
INTRODUCTION They contact hundreds of companies every week.
The Company is required to present a Business Review, which provides a fair review of the Companys principal risks and uncertainties faced and includes an analysis of the performance of the Company, both during the financial year and the position at the year end, taking into account its objective, strategy and risks and how these are measured using Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
OBJECTIVE & STRATEGY The primary objective of your Company is to enhance shareholder value, achieved through long term capital growth.
The Company aims to achieve this with an actively managed portfolio of investments made up primarily of securities issued by companies listed in China or Hong Kong and China related companies listed elsewhere.
As part of the strategy the Board has delegated the management of the investment portfolio and certain other services to FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited and FIL Investments International.
The Investment Managers will aim to achieve a capital return on the Companys total assets over the longer term in excess of the equivalent return on the MSCI China Index, as expressed in sterling.
Page 18 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011 Directors Report KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPIs Given the Companys objective and strategy, the Board has identified the following KPIs against which performance can be measured.
For the period 19 April 2010 to 31 March 2011 Share price total return 10.00% Net Asset Value total return 5.24% Benchmark total return 3.30% As at 31 March 2011 Premium to Net Asset Value 5.57% PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Company.
The Board, with the assistance of the Manager, has developed a risk matrix which, as part of the internal controls process, identifies the key risks that the Company faces.
The matrix has identified strategic, marketing and business development, investment management, company secretarial, fund administration and operations and support function risks.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing these risks.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance with the FRCs Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Risks are identified, reviewed and graded.
This process, together with the policies and procedures for the mitigation of risks, is updated and reviewed regularly in the form of comprehensive internal controls reports considered by the Audit Committee.
The Board also determines the nature and extent of any risks it is willing to take in order to achieve its strategic objectives.
The Board considers the following as the major specific risks for the Company: Top Risks Risk Mitigation Political and legislative change in The Board reviews material economic, market and legislative changes at China.
Emerging market risk in China.
An Investment Review report is also produced at each meeting to assess the Companys portfolio performance.
Loss of reputation in the market place.
Reputational risks are often the consequence of risk events in another category, such as investment performance, corporate governance rules or regulatory issues.
The Board performs reviews of such risks on a periodic basis.
Poor management of assets or long The Company has a clearly defined strategy and investment remit.
Performance is reviewed at each Board meeting, including performance attribution and income forecasts.
There is a clearly defined management agreement, and borrowing derivative limits are also set by the Board.
The Company is managed by a highly experienced Portfolio Manager.
The Asia Pacific Investment Management team supports the Portfolio Manager, and the Asia Pacific Chief Investment Officer and the Board review performance regularly.
Key man risk The Portfolio Manager has committed to manage the portfolio until at least 2013.
Succession plans will be developed at an appropriate time and in the interim there is an experienced Asia Pacific Investment team in place supporting him.
Impact of Alternative Investment Fund The Association of Investment Companies AIC provides regular briefing Managers AIFM Directive.
updates and these are reviewed by the Board.
Fidelity is also directly involved in industry lobbying.
The AIFM Directive legislation is still being developed but is likely to have a lesser impact on investment trusts than as originally drafted.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011 Page 19 Directors Report Further risks identified within this matrix are: Board meeting.
The emphasis is on long term investment performance and the Board accepts that by External risks targeting long term results the Company risks volatility in Market risk the shorter term.
The Companys assets consist mainly of listed securities in China and Hong Kong and the principal risks are Currency risk therefore market related such as market recessions, The Companys total return and balance sheet are interest rate movements, deflation inflation, terrorism affected by foreign exchange movements because the and protectionism.
Risks to which the Company is Company has assets and income which are denominated exposed and which form part of the market risks in US dollars and HK dollars whilst the Companys category are included in Note 18 to the financial reporting currency is sterling.
While it is the Companys statements on pages 47 to 52 together with summaries policy not to hedge currency, the fact that borrowings of the policies for managing these risks.
These comprise: are in US dollars and the contracts for difference are in market price risk: foreign currency risk: interest rate risk: HK dollars means that part of the investment portfolio liquidity risk: counterparty risk and credit risk.
funded by borrowing is naturally hedged against changes in the exchange rates.
Further details can be The Companys fixed term, fixed rate loan facility was found in Note 18 to the financial statements on pages 47 renewed and increased to $150m in April 2011.
In to 52. addition to traditional bank debt, the Company utilises contracts for difference as a secondary gearing Governance, operational, financial, compliance, mechanism.
administration etc While it is believed that the likelihood of poor The Company relies on a number of main service governance, compliance and operational administration providers, including principally the Managers, Registrar by other third party service providers is low, the financial and Custodians.
The Investment Managers are members consequences could be serious, including the associated of a privately owned group of companies on which a reputational damage to the Company.
Your Board is regular report is provided to the Board.
The Managers, responsible for the Companys system of internal Registrar and Custodian are subject to regular audits by controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Details of this the internal audit team and the other service providers process are provided in the Corporate Governance own internal controls reports are received by the Board Statement within this Annual Report.
Financial and financial instrument risks Risks related to PRC The financial instrument risks faced by the Company are Investing in an emerging market such as the PRC shown in Note 18 to the financial statements on pages subjects the Company to a higher level of market risk 47 to 52.
Other risks monitored on a regular basis than investment in a more developed market.
This is due include derivative positions, which are subject to daily to, among other things, the existence of greater market monitoring, together with the Companys cash position.
volatility, lower trading volumes, the risk of political and economic instability, legal and regulatory risks, risks Environmental, employee, social and community relating to accounting practices, disclosure and matters settlement, a greater risk of market shut down, and more The portfolio is managed by FIL Investment governmental limitations on foreign investment than are Management Hong Kong Limited.
The Company has typically found in developed markets.
no employees and all of its Directors are non-executive.
The Companys day to day activities are carried out by Share price risk third parties.
There are therefore no disclosures to be The Board is not able to control the prices at which the made in respect of employees.
The Board fully endorses Companys ordinary shares trade: they may not reflect Fidelitys strong procedures which are involved in the the value of the underlying investments.
However, it can making of its investments.
have an influence in the market by maintaining the profile of the Company through an active marketing The Company has no premises, consumes no electricity, campaign and, under certain circumstances, through gas or diesel fuel and consequently does not have a repurchasing or issuing shares.
The Secretary and Unlisted Investment Manager, FIL Investments International is Internal risks registered with the Carbon Reduction Commitment Investment management Energy Efficiency Scheme administered by the The Board relies on the Managers skills and judgement Environment Agency.
to make investment decisions based on research and analysis of individual stocks and sectors.
The Board The Companys financial reports are printed by a reviews the performance of the portfolio against the company which has received accreditations for its Companys benchmark and competitors and the outlook environmental awareness and further details of this may for the market with the Investment Managers at each be found on the back cover of this report.
Page 20 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011
