Directors Report INVESTMENT POLICY The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report together with the audited financial statements of the Company for the year The Company invests principally in continental European securities ended 31 December 2011.
The Company was incorporated in with a view to achieving long term capital growth for shareholders.
England and Wales as a public limited company on 16 August The portfolio is selected by the Manager on the basis of its 1991 under the name of Legistshelfco No.
112 PLC with the assessment of the fundamental value available in individual registered number 2638812.
The name was changed to Fidelity situations.
Whilst the Companys overall exposure to individual European Values PLC in September 1991. countries and industry sectors is monitored, the portfolio is not structured primarily on a country or industrial weightings basis, although certain investment restrictions apply in an attempt to BUSINESS REVIEW diversify risk.
This section of the Directors Report provides a review of the Companys business and describes the principal risks and A minimum of 80% of gross assets will be invested in companies uncertainties it faces.
from countries which are included in the benchmark Index the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index and a maximum of 5% of gross BUSINESS OF THE COMPANY assets may be invested in companies of non-European countries The Company carries on business as an investment trust and was which have some European exposure or connection.
A maximum granted approval as such by HM Revenue & Customs under of 10% of the Companys gross assets may be invested in the Section 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 for the accounting aggregate of: a securities not listed on a recognised stock year ended 31 December 2010.
This approval may be subject to exchange and b holdings in which the interest of the Company review should there be any subsequent enquiry under Corporation amounts to 20% or more of the equity capital of any listed Tax Self Assessment.
The Directors are of the opinion that, since company.
that date, the Company has conducted its affairs in a manner which will satisfy the conditions for continued approval as an The Company will not invest more than 10% of gross assets in any investment trust under that Section.
one quoted company at the time of acquisition.
A maximum of 5% of the Companys gross assets may be held in unquoted securities The Company is registered as an investment company as defined in aggregate at any one time.
in Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as such.
It is not a close company and has no employees.
The Companys normal policy is to be geared in the belief that long term investment returns will exceed the costs of gearing.
This OBJECTIVE, STRATEGY AND PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY gearing will be obtained through the use of borrowing and or The Companys objective is to achieve long term capital growth through the use of Contracts for Difference CFDs to obtain from the stockmarkets of continental Europe.
The Company aims to exposure to securities selected by the Manager.
The effect of achieve this with an actively managed portfolio of investments, gearing is to magnify the consequence of market movements on consisting primarily of continental European securities.
As part of the portfolio and if the portfolio value rises the NAV will be this strategy the Board has delegated the management of the positively impacted, but if it falls the NAV will be adversely portfolio and other services.
The principal activity is to pursue the impacted.
The Board is responsible for the level of gearing in the objective through operating as an investment trust company.
Both Company and reviews the position on a regular basis.
the objective strategy and principal activity have remained unchanged throughout the year ended 31 December 2011.
The aggregate exposure of the Company to equities, as a result of borrowing or under CFDs, will not exceed 130% of the total net The Board has reviewed the summary of the years activities and is assets at the time at which any CFD is entered into or a security in agreement with the indications of likely future developments and acquired.
It should be stressed that the majority of the Companys the factors likely to affect these which are given in the Chairmans exposure to equities will be through direct investment, not CFDs.
In Statement on pages 3 and 4 and in the Managers Review on addition, the limits on exposure to individual companies and pages 5 and 6. groups will be calculated on the basis that the Company has acquired the securities to which any CFD is providing exposure.
The Board believes that individuals and institutions choose to invest in the Company because the stock selection approach adopted by The maximum amount of cash or cash equivalents held by the the Portfolio Manager is considered to be well suited to achieving Company will be 25% of the Companys total net assets, but this its objective.
Although income has been received by way of limit will not include any cash or cash equivalent paid as collateral dividend payments the emphasis is placed on capital growth.
The for unrealised losses on CFDs.
In practice the cash position will Board recognises that investing in equities is a long term process normally be much lower.
and that the Companys returns to shareholders will vary from year to year.
Unlike equivalent open-ended investment vehicles, the The Board reserves the right to lend stock and or assets of up to investment trust structure offers investors a portfolio which may be 10% of the Companys total net assets.
The Board also reserves the geared.
The Board takes the view that long term returns can be right to hedge the portfolio by way of currency.
enhanced by the use of gearing.
14 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2011 Directors Report KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS A maximum of 10% of the Companys gross assets may be invested in the securities of other investment companies including The key performance indicators KPIs used to determine the listed investment trusts.
progress and performance of the Company over time and which are comparable to those reported by other investment trusts are The Full Portfolio Listing as at 31 December 2011 is detailed on set out below.
The first three KPIs, namely NAV, share price and benchmark, are concerned with change, whereas the remaining pages 49 and 50.
KPIs deal with absolute amounts.
FIDELITYS INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT PHILOSOPHY, STYLE AND PROCESS Year ended Three years 31 Dec ended 31 The Portfolio Manager's key focus is on identifying attractively- 2011 2010 Dec 2011 valued companies which exhibit good long term structural growth %% % prospects.
The Portfolio Manager prefers companies that he believes can grow their dividend over the next three to five years, 1,2 NAV -11.5 7.1 5.6 as evidence suggests that such companies outperform over the 2 long term.
Share price -8.6 -1.3 9.5 FTSE World Europe In order to identify these companies, the Portfolio Manager looks 2,3 for the following main characteristics: ex UK Index -14.7 5.1 6.7 Discount to NAV 14.2 16.7 n a positive fundamentals structural growth prospects, a proven business model : Gearing ratio 108.6 104.6 n a the ability to generate cash: a strong balance sheet: and Total expense ratio 0.94 0.91 n a an attractive valuation.
All figures are calculated on a total return basis 1 The Portfolio Manager draws upon the substantial intelligence Calculated in accordance with AIC guidelines 2 Calculated on a total return basis uncovered by Fidelitys team of pan-European analysts when 3 Data prior to the year ended 31 December 2011 is on a net of tax basis researching stocks.
A great deal of importance is placed on attending company meetings.
Source: Fidelity, Datastream and Fundamental Data as at 31 December 2011 Past performance is not a guide to future returns Being a bottom up stock picker, the Portfolio Manager aims to The Summary of Performance graphs on pages 11 and 12 indicate generate outperformance through company selection, on a three the relative historical performance of the Company against its to five year investment horizon, rather than through sector or benchmark index since launch and the discount or premium to country bets.
Some of the Companys KPIs are considered CORPORATE ENGAGEMENT to be beyond the Boards control, however they are measures of the Companys absolute and relative performance and the Board The Board believes that the Company should, where appropriate, monitors them regularly.
Indices and ratios which assist in take an active interest in the affairs of the companies in which it managing performance and compliance are also reviewed, invests and that it should exercise its voting rights at their general including the total expense ratio.
Unless there are any particularly controversial issues which are then referred to the Board it delegates the regularly at Board meetings and this enables the Board, amongst other things, to review costs and consider any expenditure outside responsibility for corporate activism and shareholder voting to that of its normal operations.
These activities are reviewed annually.
PREMIUM DISCOUNT MANAGEMENT: ENHANCING In addition to the KPIs set out above the Board regularly reviews SHAREHOLDER VALUE the Companys performance against its peer group of investment The Board seeks authority from shareholders each year to issue trusts.
The principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 16 and 17 includes descriptions of other performance indicators, their new shares at a premium or repurchase shares for cancellation at monitoring and management which are key to the business of the a discount to the net asset value.
It will only use these authorities to Company.
Long term performance is also monitored and the enhance the net asset value and to protect or improve the Summary of Performance graphs on pages 11 and 12 show this premium discount rating of the shares.
Details of share repurchases may be found on page 18 and the Chairmans information.
Statement provides further information on page 3.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2011 1 15 5 Directors Report ATTRIBUTION ANALYSIS The Companys 65,000,000 fixed term loan facility with Barclays The attribution analysis table which follows enables contributions Bank PLC and the amount drawn down from the 25,000,000 from various sources of income and costs to be determined.
revolving credit facility with Lloyds TSB Bank plc were both repaid on maturity.
The Company sought and received approval from Analysis of change in NAV during the year pence per share shareholders to use CFDs for gearing purposes on 18 May 2011.
The Company now has geared exposure through the use of long Starting NAV 1 January 2011 1,335.78 CFDs.
Performance risk Index -167.13 The achievement of the Companys performance objective relative Stock selection 60.63 to the market requires the application of risk.
Strategy, asset Exchange rate -29.43 allocation and stock selection might lead to underperformance of the benchmark index and target.
Management of the risks set out Gearing -16.24 above is carried out by the Board which, at each Board meeting, Share repurchases 16.96 considers the asset allocation of the portfolio and the risk Charges -15.06 associated with particular countries and industry sectors within the parameters of the investment objective.
The Portfolio Manager is Dividend paid -15.75 responsible for actively monitoring the portfolio selected in Cash and residual -1.19 accordance with the asset allocation parameters and seeks to ensure that individual stocks meet an acceptable risk reward Closing NAV 31 December 2011 1,168.57 profile.
Sources: Fidelity and Datastream Past performance is not a guide to future returns 3.
Income risks dividends In addition to the risk of the mis-management of funds by poor PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES investment decisions, there is also a risk involved in income.
The The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, Companys objective is capital growth and, as explained in the evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Chairmans Statement on page 3, the Portfolio Manager is not Company.
The Board, with the assistance of the Manager, has constrained in any way to determine the level of income.
The developed a risk matrix which, as part of the internal controls Board monitors this risk through the receipt of detailed income process, identifies the key risks that the Company faces.
The matrix reports and forecasts which are considered at each meeting.
has identified strategic, marketing, investment management, company secretarial and other support function risks.
Share price, NAV and discount volatility risk by the Board is in accordance with the FRCs Internal Control: The price of the Companys shares relative to the benchmark index Revised Guidance for Directors.
The Board also determines the and in absolute terms, as well as its discount to net asset value, nature and extent of any risks it is willing to take in order to are factors which are not within the Companys total control.
Some achieve its strategic objectives.
short term influence over the discount may be exercised by the use of share repurchases at acceptable prices.
Details of repurchases Risks identified in the matrix are: during the year are given on page 18.
The Companys share price, NAV and discount volatility are monitored daily by the Manager 1.
Market risks and considered by the Board at each of its meetings.
The Companys assets consist mainly of listed securities and the 5.
Gearing risk principal risks are therefore market related such as market downturn, interest rate movements, deflation inflation, terrorism The Company has the option to invest up to the total of any loan and protectionism.
facilities or to use CFDs to invest in equities.
In a rising market the Company will benefit but in a falling market the impact would be The Portfolio Managers success or failure to protect and increase detrimental.
In order to manage the level of gearing the Board the Companys assets against this background are core to the regularly considers gearing and gearing risk and sets limits Companys continued success.
Other factors affected by market accordingly.
The Portfolio Manager follows these and may hold forces, such as exchange and bond rates, contribute to risks which short term cash deposits to control the level of net gearing if have to be taken as part of the Companys normal business.
Risks gearing is held by way of a loan facility appropriate to the associated with the Eurozone crisis can be found in the Chairmans circumstances as viewed at the time.
The aggregate exposure will Statement and Managers Review.
not exceed 130% of net assets at the time of investment.
Risks to which the Company is exposed and which form part of the market risks category are included in Note 17 to the financial statements on pages 43 to 46 together with summaries of the policies for managing these risks.
These comprise: market price risk comprising other price risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk, credit risk and derivative instruments risks.
1 16 6 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2011
