Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report which ACTIVITY incorporates the Business Review together with the audited The Companys activity is to pursue the objective through operating financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 August as an investment trust company.
A review of the years activities 2011.
The Company was incorporated in England and Wales as a and an indication of likely future developments and the factors public limited company on 27 September 1994 under the name of likely to affect this are given in the Chairmans Statement on pages Fidelity Special Values PLC with the registered number 2972628.
4 and 5 and in the Managers Review on pages 6 to 8.
The Board supports these views.
ACTIVITIES AND STATUS The Company carries on business as an investment trust and was FIDELITYS INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT PHILOSOPHY, STYLE provisionally approved as such by HM Revenue & Customs under AND PROCESS Section 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 for the accounting Fidelitys distinctive investment approach is bottom up stock period ended 31 August 2010, although this approval may be picking investing in companies on the basis of their underlying subject to review should there be any subsequent enquiry under strengths, facilitated by extensive research capabilities.
Fidelity has Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
The Directors are of the opinion over 150 analysts and research associates with a hands-on that, since that date, the Company has conducted its affairs in a approach to knowledge accumulation.
Fidelitys analysts evaluate manner which will satisfy the conditions for continued approval as companies, meet their management and workforce and interpret an investment trust under that Section.
The Company is registered the effects of international and local events.
They contact hundreds as an investment company as defined in Section 833 of the of companies every week.
This first hand research is fundamental Companies Act 2006 and operates as such.
It is not a close to Fidelitys ability to seek the success stories of the future.
Fidelity company and has no employees.
Portfolio managers work closely with the Fidelity analyst team and also have access to a wide range of research produced by third parties.
BUSINESS REVIEW SUMMARY REVIEW OF RESULTS FOR 2011 INTRODUCTION As outlined and explained in the Chairmans Statement, in the The Company is required to present a Business Review, which Managers Review and in the financial statements, the net asset provides a fair review of the Company and a description of the value per share, on a total return basis, decreased by 4.1% to principal risks and uncertainties faced.
It includes an analysis of 552.85p and shareholders funds fell from 333.8m to 312.5m.
The the performance of the Company, both during the financial year net income generated in the portfolio during the year, less and the position at the year end, taking into account its objective, expenses incurred, amounted to 11.43p per share.
The Board is strategy and risks and how these are measured using Key recommending to shareholders a dividend of 11.25p per share.
Gross gearing exposure via derivatives at the year end was 108% 2010: 113%.
OBJECTIVE & STRATEGY The primary objective of your Company is to enhance shareholder KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPIs value, achieved through long term capital growth.
The Company Given the identification of the Companys objective and strategy, aims to achieve this with an actively managed portfolio of special the Board has identified KPIs against which returns can be situation investments, consisting primarily of securities listed or compared.
traded on the London Stock Exchange.
As is stated in the Boards Policies, which precede the Directors Report, the Board believes The objective of enhancing shareholder value is measured by the that investment in such securities will achieve that long term aim total returns of the share price: the KPI against which it is and considers five years to be the most appropriate time span compared is the UK three month interbank rate banks or building over which to make assessments.
The Board is also aware that societies regarded as a low risk investment alternative.
The KPIs shareholders invest in the Companys shares because of the belief for the objectives of higher returns than the market and the that over the long term they will earn better returns than those of competition are the comparisons with their returns.
There are three the stock market as a whole, so returns are also measured against components to the returns involved in the objective of enhancing an index which reflects the performance of the stock market, the shareholder value: the NAV, dividends and the change in the FTSE All-Share Index.
Again, the Board believes that five years is discount premium at which your shares trade to NAV.
the appropriate time span over which to make assessments, but progress is monitored on an ongoing basis as well.
Finally, the The components of the change in the NAV include the movements Board is aware that shareholders invest in the shares of Fidelity in the level of the stock market, the contribution of stock selection, Special Values PLC because FIL Investments International is the gearing, currencies, share repurchases share issues, income and Manager and it therefore also monitors returns against those of costs.
These are analysed by the Board and the relevant KPIs competing investment trust companies.
involve comparisons of the NAV against competing investment trusts and the FTSE All-Share Index the Companys benchmark, Although the Board assesses performance over five year periods, shown on page 21.
A further component part of the NAV that the the Business Review requires an annual assessment of the Directors monitor is that of the expenses of managing the Companys progress and so both sets of KPIs have been provided.
Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2011 20 20 Directors Report PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES AND RISK MANAGEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW continued The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, Those expenses, expressed as a proportion of the NAV known as evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the the total expense ratio or TER are compared with the NAV Company.
The Board, with the assistance of the Manager, has returns.
The change in the discount premium is a component of the developed a risk matrix which, as part of the internal controls change in shareholder value and the KPI compares it with that of process, identifies the key risks that the Company faces.
The matrix the Companys peer group.
has identified strategic, marketing, investment management, company secretarial and other support function risks.
The Board SHAREHOLDER TOTAL RETURNS reviews and agrees policies for managing these risks.
The process Share price 1 year 5 years is regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance with the FRCs total return return % return % Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors.
Risks are identified, introduced and graded.
This process, together with the 1 Fidelity Special Values PLC -5.0 4.6 policies and procedures for the mitigation of risks, is updated and 2 reviewed regularly in the form of comprehensive internal controls Low risk investment 0.8 16.0 reports considered by the Audit Committee.
The Board also 3 determines the nature and extent of any risks it is willing to take in Benchmark 7.3 11.2 order to achieve its strategic objectives.
The Boards approach to 4 Peer group 9.8 7.8 risks is embedded in the Companys investment objectives and investment policy on pages 19 and 20.
EXTERNAL RISKS COMPANY TOTAL RETURNS Net asset value 1 year 5 years total return return % return % MARKET RISK The Companys assets consist mainly of listed securities and the 1 Fidelity Special Values PLC -4.1 10.9 principal risks are therefore market related such as market recessions, interest rate movements, deflation inflation, terrorism 3 Benchmark 7.3 11.2 and protectionism.
4 Peer group 7.9 11.6 Risks to which the Company is exposed and which form part of the market risks category are included in Note 17 to the financial statements on pages 48 to 52 together with summaries of the ADDITIONAL KPIs policies for managing these risks.
These are: market price risk which comprise other price risk, interest rate risk and foreign Discount 2011 2006 as at 31 August % % currency risk : liquidity risk: counterparty risk and credit risk.
Fidelity Special Values PLC 10.6 4.8 Long CFDs are currently used for gearing purposes.
In addition a day to day overdraft facility can be used if required.
The impact 4 Peer group 8.5 n a of limited finance from counterparties has not impacted the Company to date, however there are alternative suppliers Total Expense Ratio 2011 2006 available in the market place should the need arise.
% % The Company relies on a number of main service providers, Fidelity Special Values PLC 1.23 1.49 namely the Manager, Registrar and Custodian.
The Manager is the member of a privately owned group of companies on which 1 Total return including net dividend reinvested a regular report is provided to the Board.
The Manager, 2 UK Interbank 3m Bid rate 3 FTSE All-Share Index Registrar and Custodian are subject to regular audits by Fidelitys 4 AIC UK Growth sector internal audit team and the counterparties own internal controls reports are received by the Board and any concerns Sources: Fidelity and Datastream as at 31 August 2011 investigated.
SHARE PRICE RISK Although it is usually the case that the longer a share is owned the less the risk of losing money, share prices are volatile and for the short term shareholder, likely to want to sell in the near future, volatility is a risk.
The Board does not regard volatility as a significant risk for the long term shareholder.
Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2011 21 21 Directors Report DISCOUNT RISK The Board cannot control the discount at which the Companys share price trades to net asset value.
However, it can influence this through its share repurchase policy and through creating demand for shares through good performance and an active investor relations programme.
INTERNAL RISKS INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT The Board relies on the Managers skills and judgement to make investment decisions based on research and analysis of individual stocks and sectors.
The Board reviews the performance of the asset value of the portfolio against the Companys benchmark and competitors and the outlook for the market with the Manager at each Board meeting.
The emphasis is on long term investment performance and the Board accepts that by targeting long term results the Company risks volatility in the shorter term.
GOVERNANCE, OPERATIONAL, FINANCIAL, COMPLIANCE, ADMINISTRATION ETC While it is believed that the likelihood of poor governance, compliance and operational administration by other third party service providers is low, the financial consequences could be serious, including the associated reputational damage to the Company.
Your Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Details of this process are provided in the Corporate Governance Statement within this Annual Report.
ENVIRONMENTAL, EMPLOYEE, SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY MATTERS The Company is managed by FIL Investments International, has no employees and all of its Directors are non-executive the Companys day to day activities being carried out by third parties.
There are therefore no disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The Board fully endorses Fidelitys strong procedures which are involved in the making of its investments.
The Company has no premises, consumes no electricity, gas or diesel fuel and consequently does not have a measurable carbon footprint.
FIL Investments International is registered with the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme administered by the Environment Agency.
The Companys financial reports are printed by a company which has received the relevant accreditations for its environmental awareness and further details of this may be found on the back cover of this report.
Financial reports and other publicly available documentation are also available on the Companys pages on the Managers website www.
Details about Fidelitys own community involvement may be found on its website, www.
Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2011 22 22
