Directors Report and Business Review The Directors present their Report, Business Review other expenses fell but the interest charge and and the audited financial statements of Foreign & the tax charge both increased.
Net revenue return Colonial Investment Trust PLC for the year ended increased by 16.2% and the effect of share buybacks 31 December 2011.
The financial statements are set pushed up revenue return per share by 20.1%.
Results and dividends Attributable to equity shareholders The net assets of the Company as at 31 December 000s 2011 were 1.9 billion 2010: 2.1 billion or 326.57 Revenue return attributable to equity pence per share when deducting debt at its par 40,270 shareholders value 2010: 351.24 pence.
When deducting debt Dividends paid on ordinary shares: at its market value, the net asset value per share was 322.86 pence 2010: 346.11 pence.
Final of 3.75p paid on 9 May 2011 22,480 The Fund Managers Review on pages 5 to Interim of 3.00p paid on 17,815 9 September 2011 9 which forms part of this Business Review, describes more fully how the Companys assets Amount withdrawn from revenue reserve 25 were invested during the year, how they performed In respect of current year profits Source: F&C and the outlook for 2012.
The Companys full list of its investments can be viewed on the website.
The interim dividend of 3.0 pence per share, The twenty largest holdings can be found on pages together with the final dividend of 4.1 pence per 10 and 11, and the ten largest investments in share, which will be paid on 11 May 2012, will bring each of the regional portfolios are shown in the Fund the total dividend for the year to 7.1 pence per Managers Review.
This represents an increase of 5.2% over Report and the Corporate Governance Statement are the comparable 6.75 pence per share paid in the incorporated by reference into this Directors Report previous year.
Principal activity and status The Company is an investment company as defined Summary of results for 2011 by Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
As Net asset value per share -6.7% to 322.9 p such, it analyses its income between revenue, which is available for distribution by way of dividends, and Net asset value total return per share -4.8% capital, which it is prohibited from distributing other Share price -6.8% to 288.5 p than by way of share buybacks.
Share price total return -4.6% The Company is registered in England and Wales Annual dividend per share 7.1 p with company registration number 12901 and is subject to the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules, UK Total expense ratio 0.5% company law, financial reporting standards, taxation Share capital repurchased 3.2% law and its own Articles of Association.
Discount 10.6% With debt at market value Investment trust taxation status adding 1.2p to net asset value per share The Company is liable to UK corporation tax on its There was strong growth in revenue during net revenue profits but is exempt from corporation the year, helped by the resumption of the BP taxation on capital gains, provided it complies at all dividend and a special dividend from Vodafone.
times with section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act Notwithstanding these dividends, underlying growth 2010 section 1158.
Such compliance, for years was still in high single digits and very widely spread ending on or before 31 December 2011, includes across the whole portfolio.
Management fees and investing no more than 15% of the total portfolio Report and Accounts 2011 15 Directors Report and Business Review continued in any one investment, deriving income wholly or Shareholders will be asked to approve the mainly from shares and securities and retaining no adoption of the Annual Report and Accounts at the more than 15% of that income.
For the year ended Annual General Meeting Resolution 1 31 December 2011, and prior years, the exemption from taxation on capital gains is granted annually Auditors in retrospect by HM Revenue and Customs.
The So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant Company has qualified as an Investment Trust under audit information of which PwC are unaware.
The section 1158 for all years up to and including 31 Directors believe that they have each taken all the December 2010 and has conducted its affairs in the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in year ended 31 December 2011 so as to comply with order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit the rules.
information and to establish that PwC are aware of Section 1158 has been amended for years the information.
beginning on or after 1 January 2012 such that PwC have indicated their willingness to continue in approval of compliance can be sought in advance, office and resolutions will be proposed at the Annual under section 1159, for that and all subsequent General Meeting to re-appoint them and determine financial years.
The Company intends to conduct its their remuneration Resolutions 11 and 12. affairs so as to enable it to apply for Investment Trust status in advance.
Investment objective, strategy and policy The Companys investment objective is to secure longAccounting and going concern term growth in capital and income through a policy The Financial Statements, starting on page 35, of investing primarily in an internationally diversified comply with current UK Financial Reporting portfolio of publicly listed equities, as well as unlisted Standards, supplemented by the Statement of securities and private equity, with the use of gearing.
Recommended Practice for Investment Trust Risk diversification is achieved through geographic Companies SORP.
The significant accounting asset allocation and industry sector and stock policies of the Company are set out in note 2 on the selection across a wide range of markets.
The unqualified auditors opinion on the general policy of maintaining a diversified portfolio, Financial Statements appears on page 34.
The there are no specific geographic or industry sector Companys investment objective, strategy and policy exposure limits for the publicly listed equities.
The places the emphasis on investing in readily realisable Board has placed a limit of 5% of the value of the listed securities and puts a limit on borrowings.
total portfolio on unlisted securities, at the time of The Company retains title to all assets held by the acquisition and excluding private equity investments, Custodian.
Trust deeds govern its debentures and and any unlisted investment requires specific Board agreements cover its bank borrowing facilities.
Shareholder approval would be sought in is held only with banks approved and regularly the event that the Board considers that the longreviewed by the Manager.
term exposure to private equity investments should Note 26 on the accounts sets out the financial risk exceed a figure of 20%: the Board has agreed to profile of the Company and indicates the effect on make no new commitments until the Companys the assets and liabilities of fluctuations in the value of exposure moves back closer to its strategic target securities, and exchange and interest rates.
The Directors believe that, in the light of the Under the Companys articles of association, with controls and monitoring processes that are in limited exceptions, no single investment may be made place, the Company has adequate resources and by the Company which exceeds 10% of the value of arrangements to continue operating within its stated the total portfolio at the time of acquisition.
Under the objective and policy for the foreseeable future.
Listing Rules, no more than 10% of the total assets may Accordingly, the accounts continue to be drawn up be invested in other listed closed-ended investment on the basis that the Company is a going concern.
companies, unless such investment companies have 16 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC themselves published investment policies to invest no Specific strategic moves in recent years have been to more than 15% of their total assets in other closedestablish the private equity portfolio: to be overweight in ended investment companies, in which case the limit is Emerging Markets relative to the benchmark weighting: 15%.
The Board has placed a limit of 5% of the value and for F&C to use external sub-managers when this of the total portfolio on investment funds managed by seems likely to result in better performance.
F&C at the time of acquisition, and any such investment The high level of diversification across the entire requires specific Board approval.
portfolio has recently resulted in the tendency for the Borrowings, which can be taken out either Companys share price to have lower volatility than its in Sterling or foreign currency, would normally index benchmark.
be expected to fall within a range of 020% of Principal risks and their management shareholders funds based on valuing the Companys Like all businesses, the Company faces risks debentures at market value.
The Corporate Governance The Company will typically remain fully invested in Statement on page 31 includes a summary of equities, but is not prohibited from investing in other the risk management arrangements.
By means types of securities or assets.
Derivatives may be of the procedures set out in the summary, and in used for the purpose of income enhancement and accordance with the Turnbull Guidance, the Board efficient portfolio management including, if appropriate, has established an ongoing process for identifying, protection against currency risks.
With regard to income evaluating and managing the significant risks faced enhancement, options may only be written on quoted by the Company, and has regularly reviewed the stocks and the total nominal exposure is limited to effectiveness of the internal control systems for the a maximum of 5% of the UK portfolio at the time of period.
This process has been in place throughout investment for both put and call options.
More details the year under review, and to the date hereof, and can be found on page 55 in note 26 on the accounts.
will continue to be regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Board believes that the optimum basis for achieving its strategic objective and implementing The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the the investment policy is a strong working relationship Company, and the Boards mitigation approach, are with the Manager, the more detailed arrangements described below.
for which are explained later in this review.
F&C has overall responsibility for the management of the Companys assets, and for asset allocation, gearing, stock selection and risk.
Principal risks and their management Objective and strategy Risk description: Inappropriate objective and strategy in relation to investor demands in a rapidly changing financial services and savings market.
Mitigation: The Board regularly reviews the Companys position as a leading savings vehicle.
Strategic issues, including its role as a global growth investment trust, are considered annually.
Management resource, stability and controls Risk description: The Manager is the main service provider and its failure to continue operating effectively could put in jeopardy the business of the Company.
Mitigation: The Board meets regularly with the senior management of the Manager and its Internal Audit function, and has access to publicly available information indicative of its financial position and performance.
The Board has contingency arrangements to facilitate the ongoing operation of the business in the event of any such failure.
The management contract can be moved at short notice.
Report and Accounts 2011 17 Directors Report and Business Review continued Investment policy, gearing, currency and derivatives Risk description: Inappropriate asset allocation, sector and stock selection, currency exposure and use of gearing and derivatives leading to investment underperformance.
Mitigation: Investments are primarily in a diversified spread of international publicly listed equities with exposure to their underlying currencies.
Investment policy and performance is reviewed with the Fund Manager at each Board meeting, along with the monitoring of cash and borrowing levels as well as options written for the purpose of income enhancement.
The ability of the Company to gear up via long-term and short-term borrowings, in currencies matching those to which the portfolio is exposed, enables it to take a long-term view of the countries, markets and currencies in which it is invested, and ride out short-term volatility.
The Board approves all borrowing facility agreements and has set a limit on gearing and option writing.
Derivatives may also be used for the purpose of hedging foreign currencies, although to date none has.
Private equity Risk description: The majority of the underlying private equity investments are in unlisted companies.
Such investments may prove difficult or impossible to realise.
Mitigation: Private equity risks are mitigated by investing in a spread of direct, secondary, venture capital, buyout and mezzanine funds of funds and by the wide spread of underlying private equity firms, which in turn have diversified investment portfolios and vintage years.
Service providers Risk description: Administrative errors or control failures by or between service providers could be damaging to the interests of investors and the Company.
Mitigation: The Board receives regular reports from the Manager on its oversight of service providers which, for the administration of the F&C savings plans, includes audit site visits: monthly technical compliance monitoring: monthly service delivery meetings: quarterly financial crime prevention forums: and the detailed review and investigation of breaches and complaints.
Arrangements are also in place to mitigate other service provider risks, including those relating to safe custody.
Most of the principal risks are market-related rights with regard to control attached to securities, and no different to those of other investment trusts no agreements between holders of securities investing primarily in listed equities.
More specific regarding their transfer known to the Company and to Foreign & Colonial are those relating to private no agreement which the Company is party to that equity, the prospects for which are described in the affects its control following a takeover bid.
Details Chairmans Statement and Fund Managers Review.
of the capital structure can be found in note 18 on Arrangements are also in place to mitigate other the accounts.
The revenue profits of the Company more general risks including those relating to safe including accumulated revenue reserves are custody of assets and counterparty failure.
Note 26 available for distribution by way of dividends to the on the accounts sets out the Companys financial risk holders of the ordinary shares.
up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the surplus assets would be distributed to shareholders Capital structure pro rata to their holdings of ordinary shares.
As at 31 December 2011 there were 590,337,016 ordinary shares of 25 pence each ordinary shares Buyback and share issue policy in issue.
As at 1 March 2012, the number stood Subject to annual shareholder approval, the at 587,844,016.
All ordinary shares rank equally Company may buy back its own shares for for dividends and distributions and carry one vote cancellation at a discount to net asset value per each.
There are no restrictions concerning the share.
This forms part of its wider strategy under transfer of securities in the Company, no special which the Board has the objective of achieving a 18 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC less volatile discount with a ceiling, in normal market Company had received notification of the following conditions, of 10% with debt at market value, holding of voting rights under the FSAs Disclosure as well as enhancing net asset value per share and Transparency Rules, since when there have for continuing shareholders.
As at 31 December been no further notifications: 2011 the discount stood at 10.6% with debt at Legal & General Group plc 4.6% market value.
The above percentage is calculated by applying the shareholding as notified to the Company to the issued ordinary share capital as at At the Annual General Meeting held on 5 May 1 March 2012.
2011, shareholders renewed the Boards authority to buy back up to 14.99% of the Companys ordinary Approximately 45% of the Companys share capital shares for cancellation.
A total of 19,782,000 shares is held on behalf of non-discretionary clients through were bought back and cancelled, representing 3.2% the F&C savings plans.
The nominee company of the shares in issue at 31 December 2010.
This holding these shares votes the shares held on behalf enhanced the net asset value per share by 1.2 pence.
of planholders who have not returned their voting The purchases were made at prices ranging between directions in proportion to the directions of those 268.6 pence and 327.9 pence and the aggregate who have proportional voting.
Implementation of consideration paid for the shares, including stamp this arrangement is subject to a minimum threshold duty and commissions, was 60,973,000. of 5% of the shares held in the savings plans being Between the year end and 1 March 2012, a further voted.
A maximum limit of 668,000 shares that any 2,493,000 shares have been purchased which one individual investor can vote, being approximately represents approximately 0.4% of the share capital 5% of the minimum threshold, also applies.
Any at an average price of 302.8 pence.
shares voted by an investor in excess of the A resolution to renew the authority to buy back maximum limit remain valid, but do not form part of up to 88,117,000 shares will be put to shareholders the proportional voting basis.
Planholders have the at the Annual General Meeting Resolution 14.
A right to exclude their shares from the proportional resolution to authorise the Directors to allot up to voting arrangement.
29,392,000 shares will also be proposed Resolution 13.
This authority and power provides the Directors Borrowings with a degree of flexibility to increase the assets of The Company has a 110 million 11.25% debenture the Company by the issue of new shares should any stock, which matures in December 2014, and favourable opportunities arise to the advantage of a 575,000 4.25% perpetual debenture stock.
Information in relation to the debentures can be found in note 17 on the accounts.
The Company also has Marketing the ability to use short-term borrowings by way of The Manager actively promotes investment in loans and overdrafts, subject to the limits set out in the Companys shares through the F&C savings the Companys objective, strategy and policy section plans.
These include the Child Trust Fund CTF, and the debenture deeds.
The Company maintains Childrens Investment Plan CIP, Individual Savings multi-currency credit facilities with Santander, National Account ISA, Pensions Savings Plan PSP and Australia Bank and Scotia Capital totalling 175m, Private Investor Plan PIP.
It also intends to launch which will be subject to review in July 2012, September a Junior ISA later in the year.
The plans are designed 2013 and December 2013 respectively.
The Company to provide investors with a cost effective and flexible also has a multi-currency overdraft facility with way to invest in the Company.
Further reference is made on page 2 and in notes 14 and 15 on the accounts.
Voting rights and proportional voting At 1 March 2012 the Companys 587,844,016 The Boards responsibilities ordinary shares in issue represented a total The Companys Board of Directors is wholly nonof 587,844,016 voting rights.
As at that date the executive and is responsible for corporate strategy, Report and Accounts 2011 19 Directors Report and Business Review continued corporate governance, risk and control assessment, covers any liabilities that may arise to a third party for the overall investment policy of the Company, setting negligence, default or breach of trust or duty.
The deed limits on gearing and asset allocation, monitoring of indemnity has been in force throughout the period investment performance and for approving marketing under review and remains in place as at the date of this policy budgets.
Further information in relation to the report.
It is available for inspection at the Companys Board can be found on page 27.
Information on registered office during normal business hours and the individual Directors, all of whom are resident in at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company also the UK, can be found on pages 12 and 13. maintains directors and officers liability insurance.
The beneficial interests of the Directors in the Directors remuneration ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the The Directors Remuneration Report, which can be table below.
found on pages 25 and 26, together with note Directors share interests 6 on the accounts, provides detailed information on at 31 December 2011 2010 the remuneration arrangements for Directors of the Simon Fraser 36,246 36,131 Company.
Shareholders will be asked to approve the Directors Remuneration Report at the Annual Sarah Arkle 10,000 General Meeting Resolution 2.
Sir Roger Bone 23,660 18,052 Director re-elections and retirements Sir Michael Bunbury 97,000 97,000 Other than Ms Sarah Arkle and Mr Nicholas Moakes, Stephen Burley 25,000 25,000 who both joined on 2 March 2011 and were elected Sir David Clementi 11,611 8,445 by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 5 May 2011, all the Directors held office throughout Jeffrey Hewitt 11,407 9,215 the year under review.
With the exception of Sir Christopher Keljik 59,289 58,224 Michael Bunbury and Sir David Clementi, who will Nicholas Moakes holds 16,764.875 units in the Skandia F&C Investment retire immediately following the Annual General Fund, a collective investment fund investing solely in the Company.
Meeting, all the other Directors will stand for Since the year end, the following Directors have acquired further ordinary shares: Sir Roger Bone 330, Sir David Clementi 495 and Mr Jeffrey re-election in accordance with the requirements of Hewitt 330.
There have been no changes in any of the other Directors the UK Corporate Governance Code Resolutions 4 shareholdings detailed above.
No Director held any interests in the issued stocks or shares of the Company other than as stated above.
Mr Maxwell Ward retired from the Board on The Companys register of Directors interests contains full details of 5 May 2011.
The Nomination Committee considered the proposed re-election of each of the Directors at a The Managers responsibilities meeting held in January 2012, including a review Most investment trusts, including your Company, of their commitment and status as independent.
have no employees and instead appoint fund The Board has concurred with the Nomination management companies to manage their investment Committees assessment that each Director portfolios and deliver investment performance, continues to make a valuable and effective as well as to carry out the ancillary functions of contribution and remains committed to their roles.
administration, secretarial, accounting and marketing services.
Directors interests and indemnification The Company has appointed F&C as Manager.
There were no contracts of significance to which the F&C is responsible for gearing, asset allocation and Company was a party and in which a Director is, or sector and stock selection, together with the overall was, materially interested during the year.
risk management of the Companys assets, within The Company has granted a deed of indemnity to limits set and regularly monitored by the Board.
the Directors in respect of liabilities that may attach to The appointment is governed by a management them in the capacity as Directors of the Company.
This agreement, which is terminable upon six months 20 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC notice given by either party.
Further information on Safe custody of assets this agreement is set out in note 4 on the accounts.
The Companys listed investments are held in safe Jeremy Tigue acts as Fund Manager the Fund custody by the Custodian.
Operational matters with Manager to the Company, on behalf of F&C, the Custodian are carried out on the Companys and is responsible and accountable for the entire behalf by the Manager in accordance with the portfolio including North America and private equity.
provisions of the management agreement.
As at 2 March 2012 the Fund Manager held 431,534 shares in the Company 31 December 2010: 394,848 Responsible ownership shares F&C, in the absence of explicit instructions from the Board, is empowered to exercise discretion Foreign & Colonial and F&C in the use of the Companys voting rights.
All Once a subsidiary of Foreign & Colonial, F&C is now shareholdings are voted at all meetings worldwide owned by FCAM, a large pan-European investment where practicable in accordance with the Managers group listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Foreign own corporate governance policy, which is to seek & Colonial has a long association with F&C, having to maximise shareholder value by constructive use originally established and developed the business for of votes at company meetings and by endeavouring the purpose of managing its assets as far back as to use its influence as an investor with a principled 1953.
The Companys relationship with F&C is fully approach to corporate governance.
Environmental arms-length with no cross-directorships or common factors are, where appropriate, taken into share interests.
consideration with regard to investment decisions Part of the legacy is that the names Foreign & taken on behalf of the Company.
Colonial and F&C are often used synonymously F&Cs statement of compliance with The UK and incorrectly by commentators in the public arena.
Stewardship Code, issued by the Financial Reporting However, the companies each own their respective Council in July 2010, has been reviewed and endorsed names and are two distinct and completely by the Board, which encourages and supports the independent entities.
Manager on its voting policy and its stance towards environmental, social and governance issues.
The North America portfolio statement is available on the Managers website at In the case of the regional equity portfolios, the Fund www.
The Board Manager has the flexibility to recommend to the periodically receives a report on instances where the Board their delegation to external third party subManager has voted against the recommendation of managers when this seems likely to result in better the management on any resolution.
It also expects to investment performance.
Throughout the period be informed of any sensitive voting issues involving the under review there were two sub-managers for the Companys investments.
North America large and mid-cap equity portfolios, namely Barrow Hanley and T Rowe Price.
The Managers fees Since 1 January 2011 the Manager receives an annual Private equity portfolio fee, which for the year under review was equal to The private equity funds of funds investments are 0.365% of the market capitalisation of the Company.
managed externally by the private equity managers, The fee is calculated and paid monthly and is subject Pantheon Ventures Limited Pantheon and to a deduction for amounts earned from investments HarbourVest Partners LLC HarbourVest.
The in other investment vehicles managed by F&C.
The Fund Manager acts as a representative of the amount received was 6,295,000 2010: 6,520,000.
Company on the advisory committees of these Note 4 on the accounts provides detailed information managers.
Recommendations for further private in relation to the management fee and includes an equity and unlisted investments remain subject to explanation of the fixed fee arrangement, which approval by the Board.
applied for 2010 and earlier years.
Report and Accounts 2011 21 Directors Report and Business Review continued Sub-managers fees At 31 December 2011 the Companys outstanding The Manager incurred investment management fees trade creditors were equivalent to one days payments from the sub-managers appointed to manage the to suppliers 2010: nine days.
The Company reimburses the Manager for these fees, which in 2011 amounted Performance measurement to 1.3 million 2010: 1.2 million see note 4 on The Board recognises that it is share price performance the accounts.
that is most important to the Companys shareholders, coupled with a steadily rising dividend.
Underlying share Private equity managers fees price performance is net asset value performance, for The fees paid to Pantheon and HarbourVest in respect which the Board looks to its Manager.
The fee payable of the private equity funds of funds amounted to to the Manager is based on the market capitalisation 6.1 million for 2011 2010: 5.9 million of which of the Company, thus aligning the Managers interests 0.6m was paid directly and 5.5m was incurred with shareholders through share price performance as indirectly through the funds.
Some of the funds have described above.
arrangements whereby these private equity managers share in the profits once certain hurdle rates of return Key performance indicators to investors have been achieved.
These arrangements The Board assesses its performance in meeting are varied and complex, but are on normal commercial the Companys objective against the following key terms within the private equity funds of funds industry.
performance indicators: Fees payable by the underlying funds are negotiated Net asset value total return by Pantheon and HarbourVest.
The arrangements Share price total return also vary from fund to fund, but management fees of Performance attribution 2% per annum and a 20% carried interest, once an Annual dividend growth agreed hurdle rate of return for investors has been Discount to net asset value achieved, would be normal.
Total expense ratio Savings plans investment flows Creditor payment policy The Board also reviews statistical measurements of The Companys principal supplier is the Manager, volatility and risk.
Absolute and relative assessments the payment terms for which are set out on page are made to understand the risk return characteristics 21.
Other suppliers are paid in accordance with of the portfolio.
Net asset value total return and share price total return performance 1 Year 3 Years 5 Years 10 Years % % % % FCIT net asset value with debt at market value 4.8 33.0 12.3 58.0 Benchmark 5.1 35.7 13.5 52.4 AIC Global Growth Sector weighted average net asset value 9.3 37.5 11.2 68.7 FTSE All-Share 3.5 43.8 6.2 59.5 FTSE WI World ex UK 6.1 30.2 18.4 47.6 FCIT share price 4.6 36.1 13.9 62.3 AIC Global Growth Sector weighted average share price 8.5 40.0 11.1 83.4 Retail Prices Index 4.8 12.4 18.1 38.6 Source: Morningstar UK Limited Total return.
22 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Asset allocation, stock selection and Compound annual dividend growth gearing attribution % 1 year 3 years 5 years % 5 years 10 years Asset allocation 2.1 0.3 4.6 Foreign & Colonial 5.8 7.8 Stock selection 0.5 1.3 0.8 FTSE All-Share 1.8 4.2 Gearing 0.4 1.0 1.1 Inflation RPI 3.4 3.3 Based on debt at market value Source: F&C: Morningstar UK Limited The table shows the contributions to total return versus the Companys benchmark from asset allocation, stock selection and gearing decisions over one, three and five years.
1 With debt at market value cum income.
Source: F&C Source: F&C Further detailed performance statistics can be found in the Ten Year Record on pages 61 and 62.
F&C Savings Plans investment flows in Foreign & Colonial m 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Purchases 58.1 69.4 53.2 52.1 49.5 Withdrawals 54.6 59.9 31.5 40.3 78.5 Net flow 3.5 9.5 21.7 11.8 29.0 The above figures cover all of the F&C Savings Plans in Foreign & Colonial, including the Personal Pension Plan and Child Trust Fund.
Source: F&C Report and Accounts 2011 23 Directors Report and Business Review continued Manager evaluation process Japan.
The UK had underperformed following the fall The Managers performance is considered at every in the value of Caithness Petroleum.
Over three, five Board meeting, with a formal evaluation in January of and ten years performance against the benchmark each year.
For the purposes of its ongoing monitoring, and the sector had been mixed.
the Board receives detailed reports and views from the The Board met in closed session following the Fund Manager on investment policy, asset allocation, presentations and concluded that in their opinion the gearing and risk, together with quarterly presentations continuing appointment of F&C as Manager on the on the F&C managed regional portfolios.
Quarterly terms agreed was in the interests of shareholders as updates are received from the US sub-managers.
Developments at F&C would continue to be The Board also receives comprehensive performance monitored in the light of their retail strategy review to measurement schedules, provided by Morningstar UK be announced in the first half of the year.
Limited and F&C, at each meeting.
These enable it to assess the success or failure of the management of The Boards priorities for the year ahead the total portfolio against the performance objectives The overriding priority has not changed from previous set by the Board, to assess the sources of positive years.
That is to strive for the consistent achievement and negative contribution to the portfolio in terms of relative outperformance, adding value for of gearing, asset allocation and stock selection and shareholders through net asset value and share price to assess the performance of each region against total return, discount management, dividend growth, its local index and the risk return characteristics of a low and competitive total expense ratio and effective the portfolio.
The outlook for the Company is reported in the Chairmans Statement on page 4.
Decision to re-appoint the Manager The annual evaluation took place in January 2012 Annual General Meeting with presentations from F&Cs Head of Equities, Shareholders will have received a separate enclosure the Fund Manager and the heads of Investment containing the Notice of the Annual General Meeting Trust Business Development and Funds Client to be held at Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Servicing.
This covered services and developments Street, London EC2 on Tuesday 8 May 2012 at 12 at F&C as well as investment performance.
The enclosure explains each resolution and the regard to performance, the Manager had beaten the voting arrangements.
Companys benchmark and the weighted average of the net asset value total return of the AIC Global Growth sector over one year.
Although listed asset allocation had been negative, overall asset allocation By order of the Board, had been positive as a result of private equity.
Stock for and on behalf of F&C Management Limited, selection had been strong in Europe and North Secretary America but disappointing in Emerging Markets and 2 March 2012 24 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
