DIReCTORS RePORT BUSINeSS RevIeW Review of the business The Company, a public company limited by shares and domiciled INTRODUCTION in the UK, operates under the laws of england and Wales.
It was British Sky Broadcasting Group plc the Company and its incorporated in england and Wales on 25 April 1988.
Our principal subsidiaries Sky or the Group operate the leading pay television executive offices are located at Grant Way, Isleworth, Middlesex, service in the UK and Ireland as well as broadband and telephony TW7 5QD, england.
A list of our significant services.
We commission and acquire programming to broadcast investments is set out in note 34 to the consolidated financial on our own channels and supply certain of those channels on a statements.
wholesale basis to third party operators for retransmission to their subscribers in the UK and Ireland.
We retail channels both our own CONTeNT and third parties to our Tv customers see Glossary of terms.
We We provide Tv customers with a broad range of programming also make three of our channels available free-to-air via the UK DTT options.
With respect to the channels we own and operate, we platform, as part of the branded Freeview offering.
incur significant expense to produce and commission original At 30 June 2011, there were 10,187,000 Tv Customers and 4,382,000 programming and to acquire exclusive UK and Ireland television subscribers to our channels through operators to whom we rights to films, certain sports events and other programming.
wholesale certain of our channels, in the UK and Ireland.
According to Currently, we own, operate, distribute and retail 30 Sky Channels estimates of Ofcom, as at 31 March 2011 the latest data available for via our DTH service or 35 including multiplex versions of the Sky the year ended 30 June 2011, there were 10,100,000 homes in the Channels, but excluding simulcast HD channels, Sky Insider a UK receiving certain of our channels free-to-air via DTT where DTT channel available to Sky employees and the business channel is the only digital Tv platform supplying services see Distribution and the Pub Channel.
We also simulcast most of the Sky below.
As at June 2011, there were 107,000 standalone home Channels or programming from some of the Sky Channels in high communications customers.
We currently retail to our DTH customers 147 partner Our total revenue from continuing operations in fiscal 2011 was channels including multiplex versions of certain channels the 6,597 million 2010: 5,709 million, as set out in the table below.
We do not own the Sky Distributed Channels, although we have an equity interest in certain of them.
In 2011 2010 addition to the Sky Distributed Channels, we currently retail to our For the year to 30 June m m DTH customers the Sky Box Office service a pay-per-view service Retail subscription 5,455 4,761 offering movies, sporting events and concerts.
Wholesale subscription 323 238 The packages offered to DTH Customers as at 30 June 2011, were as Advertising 458 340 follows: Installation, hardware and service 112 174 Other 249 196 Partner revenue 6,597 5,709 Package Channels variety Pack 29 We operate principally within the UK and Ireland, with activities Style & Culture Pack 22 conducted primarily from the UK.
Our revenue from continuing Childrens Pack 18 operations principally arises from services provided to retail Knowledge Pack 24 and wholesale customers within the UK, with the exception of Music Pack 14 422 million 2010: 378 million which arises from services provided News & events Pack 8 in other countries, mainly Ireland.
ROI Bonus Mix 16 Adult Pay-Per Night 9 Our fiscal years end on the Sunday nearest to 30 June in each year.
Disney Cinemagic 2 References in this document to a fiscal year ended 30 June is to MUTv 1 the fiscal year ending on the Sunday nearest to 30 June.
We publish Chelsea Tv 1 our financial statements in British pounds sterling.
References to eSPN 2 US dollars, dollars, US$, $ and are to the currency of the MGM HD 1 United States US, references to euro and are to the currency Disney Cinemagic also available as a bonus channel to customers of both Movies Mix packages.
of the participating european Union eU countries, and references to pounds sterling, pence and p are to the currency of We retail packages of channels to our DTH Customers.
they are currently packaged offers customers a choice of up to six packs of both Sky Basic Channels and Sky Distributed Channels Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance see Basic Channels below.
each pack contains channels broadly with IFRS as adopted by the eU, the Companies Act 2006 and Article within a specific genre of interest, to which customers have the 4 of the International Accounting Standard IAS Regulations.
In option to add a combination of Sky Premium Channels and Premium addition, our consolidated financial statements also comply with Sky Distributed Channels see Sky Premium Channels below.
We IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board also currently offer DTH customers the opportunity to subscribe to IASB.
Sky Premium Channels without the need to subscribe to a pack.
Certain terms used herein are defined in the Glossary of terms The way that we package the Sky Basic Channels and the Sky which appears at the end of this Annual Report.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 8 Book 1. indb 8 12 10 11 20:46:54 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIReCTORS RePORT BUSINeSS RevIeW Distributed Channels will change on 1 September 2011.
From that Pack 2 date we will offer our customers two packages: entertainment Sky Movies Action & Adventure and entertainment extra.
Sky Movies Crime & Thriller Sky Movies Sci Fi & Horror On our DTH platform, the Sky Premium Channels, the Sky Basic Sky Movies Indie Channels other than Sky News, Sky Box Office and the Sky Sky Movies Comedy Distributed Channels are encrypted in order to limit access to paying customers only.
The channels principally broadcast the output of recent theatrical movies and certain library movies in respect of which we are virgin Media vM see UK Cable below carries versions of the typically granted exclusive UK and Ireland rights to broadcast Sky Basic and Sky Premium Channels including multiplex channels during the relevant pay television window by major Hollywood and on its cable systems.
We have also entered into agreements with independent US and european licensors.
BT and Top Up Tv for carriage of Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2 on their respective DTT services.
We broadcast versions of three of DTH Customers and digital cable customers subscribing to both the Sky Channels Sky News, Challenge and Pick Tv unencrypted packs receive Sky Movies Premiere, Sky Movies Premiere 1 and Sky free-to-air via DTT in the UK as part of the Freeview offering see Movies Showcase and in the case of DTH Customers only Disney DTT Distribution below.
Sky Movies Premiere and Sky Movies Premiere 1 a delayed multiplex of Sky Movies Premiere We also operate a high definition Tv HD service which consists exclusively show titles in their first run Tv windows after the pay of over 50 HD channels including five Sky Sports channels, 11 Sky per view and video on demand windows.
The movies are recent Movies channels, Sky 1 HD, Sky Living HD, Sky Atlantic HD, two Sky theatrical releases, including foreign film content.
Sky Movies Arts channels, Sky News HD, two Sky Box Office HD channels and Premiere typically broadcasts five new films per week, and two 30 HD channels provided by partner broadcasters.
films from the previous week every day for seven days.
Sky 3D offers entertainment and arts content as well as sport and each of the Sky Movies channels other than Sky Movies movies to DTH customers with a 3D ready television.
The channel is Premiere 1 is also broadcast as an HD simulcast and such HD offered at no extra cost for DTH customers who subscribe to the channels are available to DTH customers of our Sky HD service Sky Premium Channels and HD pack.
who are entitled to the corresponding standard definition channel.
We hold equity interests in ventures that own certain of the Sky DTH Customers who take both of the Sky Movies packs and the Distributed Channels including certain Premium Sky Distributed Sky HD service receive MGM HD without additional charge.
Channels which are operated and distributed in the UK and Ireland There are also over 400 films available for Sky Movies customers for the purposes of this report, any reference to the UK in relation to download from Sky Player and over 600 from Sky Anytime see to the distribution of the Sky Channels and Sky Distributed Channels Sky Anytime and Sky Player below.
includes the Isle of Man and the Channel Islands namely Attheraces, Nickelodeon, Nick Replay, Nicktoons, Nick Jr, Nick Jr2, Nicktoons Replay, Sky Sports Channels Nickelodeon HD, National Geographic Channel, National Geographic The Sky Sports Channels currently are Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports 2, HD, Nat Geo Wild, Nat Geo Wild HD, Chelsea Tv, MUTv, Comedy Sky Sports 3, Sky Sports 4 and Sky Sports News.
In addition, those Central, Comedy Central extra, Comedy Central HD, The History channels are available in HD to DTH customers to our Sky HD Channel, Military History, The History Channel HD, Bio, Bio HD, MGM service who are entitled to the corresponding standard definition HD and Crime and Investigation Network HD.
equity interest in the venture operating the Sky News Australia Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports 2, Sky Sports 3, Sky Sports 4 and Sky Channel, which is based in Australia and have a 50% equity interest Sports News are all available online on Sky Player.
Some content in the venture which has been established to operate a new channel, from those channels is also available on an on demand basis on Sky News Arabia, which is due to be launched in Spring 2012.
Sky Player and Sky Anytime.
PReMIUM CHANNeLS In March 2006, the european Commission rendered legally binding Sky premium Channels the Premier Leagues PL commitment to sell live Tv rights in six balanced packages, with no one bidder being allowed to buy all Sky movies Channels six packages.
In February 2009, the Group successfully bid for five Sky Movies features 9 channels of different genres divided into of those six available packages each of 23 games of live rights two packs: to Premier League football in the UK.
These rights run from the Pack 1 beginning of the 2010 11 season to the end of the 2012 13 season.
Sky Movies Comedy In addition to those PL rights, our programming rights for the Sky Movies Family Sky Sports channels include exclusive live rights to broadcast, Sky Movies Classics in the UK and in most cases Ireland, a range of sport including Sky Movies Modern Greats a number of football, rugby union, rugby league, cricket, golf Sky Movies Drama & Romance and tennis events.
Those events include: i broadcast rights to npower Football League matches and the Carling Cup for the AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 9 Book 1. indb 9 12 10 11 20:46:54 DIReCTORS RePORT BUSINeSS RevIeW Review of the business continued 2008 09 to 2014 15 domestic football seasons: ii broadcast rights cable networks in the UK and Ireland and on DTT as part of the to the UeFA Champions League up to and including the 2014 15 Freeview offering in the UK.
Sky News is also available to viewers on season: iii exclusive live rights to englands primary domestic the Sky News website and on Sky Player and Sky Mobile Tv.
cricket matches and all of englands home test matches, one day Sky Arts 1 and Sky Arts 1 HD provide contemporary arts and music internationals and Twenty20 internationals until 2013: iv live oriented programming and documentaries.
Sky Arts 2 and Sky Arts 2 rights for the International Cricket Tours of India, Australia, South HD broadcast classical arts programming including opera, literature, Africa and the West Indies from 2006 to 2012: v a number of theatre, cinema and dance.
Both Sky Arts HD channels are available rugby union matches including autumn international matches to all DTH customers to our Sky HD service.
Individual programmes to 2015 and Aviva Premiership matches to 2013: vi exclusive live are available on an on demand basis from Sky Player and on Sky rights to the Heineken Cup and the Challenge Cup until 2014: vii Anytime.
exclusive rights to all Tri-Nations rugby union matches between Sky Bet and SkyPoker.
com are interactive television channels which Australia, New Zealand and South Africa, plus all summer tours currently broadcast on a 24-hour a day basis and are currently to these three countries made by england, Scotland, Wales and available to our DTH Customers.
Ireland and exclusive rights to domestic competitions in those territories, including the Super Rugby Tournament and Currie Cup Basic Sky Distributed Channels until December 2015: and viii exclusive live rights to the Ryder Cup, Our agreements with the owners of the Sky Distributed Channels World Golf Championship and the PGA european Tour until 2012: and typically grant us the exclusive right to offer these channels to exclusive live rights to the PGA US Tour until 2017. residential DTH Customers in the UK and Ireland.
We act as an pay-per-view advertising sales representative for certain of the Sky Distributed Channels and for the other channels, the channel owners generally Our Sky Box Office service currently offers our DTH Customers sell their own advertising time see Advertising and Sponsorship television premieres of movies and occasional live sports and other below.
special events on a pay-per-view basis.
We have acquired certain exclusive DTH rights from Hollywood and independent distributors, DISTRIBUTION which enable us to show their movies on Sky Box Office.
Sky Box We distribute our programming services directly to DTH Customers Office HD offers at least 18 movies each week in HD on a pay-perthrough the packages described above.
Wholesale subscribers, by view basis.
contrast, contract with wholesale operators, who in turn acquire the BASIC CHANNeLS rights to distribute certain of the Sky Channels from us, which they combine with other channels from third parties and distribute to Sky Basic Channels their subscribers.
Sky 1, Sky Living and Sky Atlantic together offer Tv Customers access We also make certain of our channels available free-to-air via the UK to a comprehensive range of subscription content that appeals to all DTT platform as part of the branded freeview offering.
Sky Atlantic was launched in February 2011 and, following Skys exclusive output deal with HBO and series deals with Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June Lionsgate Television, is the exclusive destination for many of the Statistics 2011 2010 most hotly anticipated shows in television.
Sky 1 is targeted primarily Distribution of Sky Channels at a 16-44 age group audience and includes UK-commissioned Tv homes 10,187 9,860 drama, factual and family entertainment series and major event i Wholesale homes 4,382 4,312 programming in addition to first-run acquired US series.
Sky Living Total Sky pay homes 14,569 14,172 is targeted primarily at female viewers.
During this financial year the ii DTT homes 10,100 10,100 channel aired its first ever in-house drama commission, Bedlam notes: which achieved a cumulative audience of just under one million viewers on its debut.
i The number of wholesale homes includes distribution of our Freeview channels by wholesale operators as part of a Free TV pack bundled with other products.
Sky 1, Sky Living and Sky Atlantic are simulcast in HD and are also ii The Digital Terrestrial Television DTT homes number consists of the UK Office available on Sky Player and content from the channels is available on of Communications Ofcoms estimate of the number of homes where DTT is the an on demand basis from Sky Player and on Sky Anytime.
only digital TV platform supplying services and includes Top Up TV DTT homes.
The number of DTT homes for all periods disclosed above is based on Ofcoms Digital Sky Living Loves and Sky Living It complete the Sky Living family Television Update published quarterly in arrears.
Latest data available for the year of channels.
Sky 2 broadcasts primarily a catch-up schedule ended 30 June 2011 is at 31 March 2011. of programming from Sky 1 and is complemented by Sky 1s programming library and some exclusive content.
Sky News provides national and international news to viewers in the UK, Ireland and across the globe.
The channel is broadcast unencrypted on Astra satellites see Satellites below, and distributed to viewers via cable and satellite networks in europe, Africa, the Middle east and Asia.
It is also currently shown on most AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 10 Book 1. indb 10 12 10 11 20:46:54 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIReCTORS RePORT BUSINeSS RevIeW On 31 March 2010, Ofcom published its decision to impose The appeal has now been heard at the CAT and judgment is wholesale must-offer obligations on Sky the WMO Obligations awaited.
for the channels Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports 2, Sky Sports 1 HD and On 11 August 2010, Ofcom issued a decision that a term included in Sky Sports 2 HD the Affected Channels.
This decision brought the agreement between Sky and Top Up Tv for the supply of Sky to an end Ofcoms three year Pay Tv Investigation.
In June 2010, Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2 to Top Up Tv on WMO terms breached Sky appealed Ofcoms decision to the Competition Appeal Tribunal the conditions of Skys broadcasting licences that implement CAT.
the WMO Obligations the WMO Conditions.
On 14 December The WMO Obligations require Sky, amongst other things, to offer 2010, Ofcom issued a decision that a further term included in the the Affected Channels on a wholesale basis to third parties which same agreement between Sky and Top Up Tv breached the WMO satisfy various minimum qualifying criteria including financial, Conditions.
Sky submitted appeals against these two Ofcom technical and security criteria.
decisions, on 11 October 2010 and 14 February 2011 respectively.
The two appeals will be heard together at the CAT in the Autumn The WMO Obligations specifies maximum prices that Sky may of 2011. charge for Sky Sports 1 and or Sky Sports 2.
Under the WMO Obligations, the wholesale price is linked to Skys retail price.
In August 2010 Ofcom announced its decision to refer the supply and acquisition of certain Pay-Tv movie rights and the supply and The WMO Obligations do not specify a maximum price for Sky acquisition of Pay-Tv packages including certain movie channels Sports 1 HD and or Sky Sports 2 HD.
Rather, Sky is required to offer to the Competition Commission CC for investigation.
The CCs these channels on a fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory basis.
provisional findings are due to be published in August 2011.
In April 2010, Sky applied to the CAT for a suspension of the DtH distribution implementation of the WMO Obligations.
On 29 April 2010, Skys application was resolved by way of an agreed Order from As at 30 June 2011, the total number of Tv Customers in the UK the President of the CAT.
The terms of the Order result in the and Ireland was 10,187,000, representing a net increase of 327,000 suspension of certain aspects of Ofcoms decision, pending the customers in the fiscal year.
Churn was 10.4% in fiscal 2011 2010: outcome of Skys substantive appeal.
In summary, the effect of the 10.3%.
In fiscal 2011, we derived 5,455 million 83% of our revenue Order is as follows: from continuing operations from retail subscription revenue 2010: 4,761 million 83%.
Sky is required to offer the Affected Channels to each of BT, Top Up Tv and vM for distribution via Digital Terrestrial Tv and We also offer a number of our services, including our HD service, vM for distribution via cable.
Other parties may apply to the to commercial DTH customers in the UK and Ireland under a range CAT to be added to the list of persons to whom Sky is required of contracts.
The types of contract, and the channels, which are to offer its channels.
available to any particular commercial customer depend primarily upon the type of business premises within which such customers In the event that BT, Top Up Tv or vM enter into a distribution wish to show our services.
Our commercial DTH customers include agreement for Sky Sports 1 and or Sky Sports 2, the distributor offices, retail outlets, hotels, pubs and clubs.
each such operator is required to pay Sky the equivalent of the maximum price Sky with a SMATv system is considered to be a single commercial DTH may charge for the channel s under the WMO Obligations.
The customer regardless of the number of points e. g. rooms in a hotel difference between that price and the rate card price set by within the premises to which the television signal is distributed.
Sky will be paid into escrow.
Digital satellite reception equipment At the conclusion of Skys appeal, the CAT will determine the distribution of the monies held in escrow.
In order to receive our DTH service, customers are required to have a digital satellite system, which includes a satellite dish and LNB On 23 November 2010, the CAT made an agreed Order extending the implementation of the WMO Obligations to a company called low noise block converter, a digital satellite receiver set-top box, a smartcard see Technology and Infrastructure below ReAL Digital ePG Services Limited, in respect of distribution via and a remote control.
We have in the past worked closely with DTH satellite.
selected manufacturers who have manufactured digital satellite On 1 June 2010, Sky submitted its appeal against Ofcoms decision receivers for us based on our specifications.
We announced in to impose the WMO Obligations on the following grounds: January 2010 that our intentions were to source all our digital Ofcom had no jurisdiction to adopt its decision under its satellite receivers from our own manufacturing division and sectoral powers: supplies from third party manufacturers ceased in May 2010.
We work closely with a number of selected electronic manufacturing Ofcom erred in finding that Sky acted on an incentive to service suppliers.
withhold supply of the Channels: We also offer a Sky HD box.
This is a set-top box that we have Ofcom erred in its assessment of the impact and developed which contains two satellite tuners and an integrated proportionality of the WMO Obligations: and PvR allowing programming to be recorded directly onto a hard-disk Ofcom acted unlawfully in imposing the WMO Obligations.
This enables DTH Customers to watch one live satellite programme or a previously recorded programme AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 11 Book 1. indb 11 12 10 11 20:46:54 DIReCTORS RePORT BUSINeSS RevIeW Review of the business continued while simultaneously recording another or to record simultaneously We also offer Sky Broadband Connect to customers in the UK two programmes, to pause or rewind live television and to record who are not within the coverage area of our broadband network.
automatically some series of programmes.
Sky customers need a Sky Broadband Connect offers a maximum speed of up to 8 Mb Sky subscription to use the Sky recording features of the Sky download speeds depending on location and 40GB monthly usage.
DTH Customers receive the Sky subscription for Sky Broadband Unlimited is now available to customers who do not free.
take a television service from Sky.
Customers with a Sky HD box and an HD subscription receive a As part of a Sky Broadband subscription, we provide customers with number of HD Channels which depends on the basic package to a Wi-Fi capable DSL modem router.
We also offer installation and which they subscribe and the other premium channels they have equipment repair and exchange services.
Sky talk DTH Customers with a compatible Sky or Sky HD box can also Sky Talk is a telephony service available to homes in the UK.
Sky Talk receive Sky Anytime Tv at no extra cost see Sky Anytime Tv below.
Freetime offers customers free evening and weekend calls of up We also offer our DTH Customers a multiroom subscription and the to an hour to UK landlines and Sky Talk Unlimited offers customers opportunity to purchase up to seven extra set-top boxes for use at unlimited calls for up to one hour per call to UK landlines and the same residence as their original set-top box, which enables them unlimited calls to certain international destinations.
to watch different satellite programmes in different rooms at the Sky Talk customers are also able to take their telephony line rental same time using just one satellite dish.
Both digital satellite reception equipment and subscriptions to As with Sky Broadband Unlimited, Sky Talk is now available to our DTH services are offered by us directly and through a variety of customers who do not take a television service.
retailers in both the UK and Ireland.
We also provide installation and equipment repair services.
online Sky Anytime and Sky Anytime tV We own and operate a number of established websites including sky.
Skys full-service online Sky Anytime Tv is an on demand service that provides access to portal encompasses e-mail and search to sit alongside skysports.
selected programmes that are added each day with approximately com and sky.
30 hours of content available at any one time.
viewers have seven days to watch programmes or store them on their Sky planner see Sky also extended its commitment to protection of its customers description of Sky in Digital satellite reception equipment above.
by introducing the Sky Security Centre where users can obtain information and products relating to online security and protection.
Sky Anytime was launched in October 2010.
DTH Customers with certain Sky HD set-top boxes and Sky Broadband Unlimited or itext and Sky Active everyday Lite are able to connect to the Sky Broadband network to We offer our viewers enhanced and interactive services.
We offer access an extensive on demand service, providing even more choice enhanced broadcast applications behind a number of Sky Channels, and control to complement Sky and the Sky Anytime Tv service.
including Sky Movies, Sky Sports, Sky News and the interactive Once connected, DTH Customers have the opportunity to access betting service available behind SkyPoker.
an updating library of content which they can pull to their Tvs We offer interactive services which can be accessed whilst the to watch whenever they like.
DTH Customers can access content programming on the channel to which the interactive service relates including over 600 films, popular entertainment and drama series, stays in view.
We also offer certain interactive games and customer documentaries and the arts.
As well as offering content from Sky services.
Movies, Sky Sports, Sky Arts, Sky Atlantic, Sky Living, Sky News and Sky 1, the service which comes at no extra charge for subscribers Sky Betting and Gaming to the relevant channels offers a wide range of programming from The Group offers a range of betting and gaming services under partner broadcasters.
the Sky Bet, Sky Poker, Sky vegas and Sky Bingo brands, in Sky Broadband relation to which the Group acts as bookmaker and operator.
The Sky Bet fixed odds sports betting service is licensed by the Alderney As at 30 June 2011, our broadband network covered almost 80% of Gambling Control Commission and is available across multiple UK households.
platforms, including by means of set-top boxes including Sky and For homes covered by our broadband network, two different Sky HD, by telephone and on the internet including the mobile broadband products are available: Sky Broadband everyday Lite and internet.
Customers can also bet on virtual dog and horse racing on Sky Broadband Unlimited.
Both products offer a maximum speed the Sky Bet channel.
Skys gaming operations, which include poker, of up to 20Mb download speeds depending on location and up to bingo and an online casino are also licensed in Alderney.
Sky Broadband everyday Lite is limited to a also continues to develop a range of popular games products on the 2GB monthly usage allowance, whereas Sky Broadband Unlimited internet at www.
com through the Sky vegas 24 7 games has no limit on monthly usage.
In accordance with the licensing structure of transactional gambling channels introduced in June 2009 by Ofcom, the Sky AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 12 Book 1. indb 12 12 10 11 20:46:54 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIReCTORS RePORT BUSINeSS RevIeW Poker and Sky vegas channels operate as teleshopping channels wholesale distribution rather than as editorial channels.
Sky Bingo was launched on the In fiscal 2011, we derived 323 million in revenues from continuing internet in December 2007.
The gambling business is certified by operations from the wholesale distribution of our channels 2010: the gambling charity GamCare and has in place stringent social 238 million.
responsibility measures for the protection of minors and other uk Cable vulnerable people.
We take active measures to prevent persons resident in the US participating in our internet gaming and betting vM provides both analogue and digital cable services across its services.
cable systems and accounts for the majority of our wholesale revenue, which is revenue derived from the supply of Sky Channels Digital subscriber line DSl : other fixed line to distributors on a wholesale basis for onward distribution to distribution: and mobile networks their subscribers.
Sky player Cable operators are able to offer their subscribers any choice or combination of the Sky Premium Channels pursuant to the Customers can access a range of entertainment, sports and terms on which we supply such channels.
We negotiate separate movies content with Sky Player.
This offers streamed content to any PC or Mac with internet access and a compatible operating commercial arrangements with each cable operator for the carriage of the Sky Basic Channels see also Distribution above.
The cost and availability of content depends on whether the customer is a DTH Customer and what DTH subscription We have contracts with Smallworld, Newtel and Wightcable for package they have.
Certain content is available on a pay-per-view their distribution of certain of the Sky Channels.
These three and subscription basis.
regional cable operators operate the only other major pay Tv cable Sky Player is also available on xbox and on Fetch Tv Smart Boxes.
services outside the vM network, covering the Borders region, Jersey and the Isle of Wight respectively.
Sky By wire In addition, several of the Sky Channels are distributed on a Sky By Wire refers to television services retailed directly by us number of narrowband cable networks.
These are generally over the fixed line networks of other operators in the UK and smaller cable operators that have limited channel capacity when Ireland.
compared with digital satellite or digital cable and accordingly do The most significant of these is TalkTalk Tv which distributes not generally carry all of the Sky Channels.
pay television services by means of the TalkTalk network.
Under Ireland Cable arrangements in respect of TalkTalk Tv, we have access to the We currently have arrangements in place with UPC TalkTalk Tv platform to enable us to retail certain of the Sky Premium Channels to customers who already subscribe to Communications Ireland Limited UPC for the re-transmission of certain of the Sky Channels, including Sky Basic and Sky Premium TalkTalk Tv services.
In addition, we are provided with certain Channels, to their subscribers.
UPC operates both analogue and customer management, billing and sales agency services in respect of our customers receiving Sky Premium Channels via its digital cable services in Ireland.
In return for these services, we pay a fixed monthly fee In addition, several of the Sky Channels are distributed on a per subscriber who subscribes to a Sky Premium Channel on the number of local cable networks in Ireland.
These are generally TalkTalk Tv platform.
smaller cable operators that have limited channel capacity when compared with digital satellite or digital cable and accordingly do Sky Go and Sky mobile Applications not generally carry all of the Sky Channels.
On 8 July 2011 Sky announced that, at no extra cost, DTH Customers can now watch live Tv on the move with the launch of Dtt distribution Sky Go, a new service which has launched for laptops, PCs, Macs, We currently broadcast versions of three of our channels, Sky iPhone, iPad and iPod touch.
News, Challenge and Pick Tv, unencrypted free-to-air via DTT In addition we offer a range of Sky mobile applications including in the UK.
These channels are broadcast on a DTT multiplex for which the licence is held by Arqiva Services Limited which owns Sky Mobile Tv for simultaneous coverage of Skys live sports and operates shared wireless communications and broadcast channels, Sky to enable remote recording, Sky News for breaking news stories and video, Football and Cricket Score Centres and Sky infrastructure.
Sports News for live scores and commentary.
The applications are The free-to-air channels broadcast via DTT by us, together with a available on a range of compatible mobile handsets and across all number of other channels broadcast free-to-air via DTT by other mobile networks.
broadcasters, are marketed to consumers under the generic brand Freeview.
In June and July 2010 the Group entered into agreements providing for the carriage of Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2 via DTT on BT visions Tv service and Top Up Tvs service from August 2010.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 13 Book 1. indb 13 12 10 11 20:46:55 DIReCTORS RePORT BUSINeSS RevIeW Review of the business continued Sky competes with a number of communications and entertainment Free-to-view satellite proposition companies to secure amongst other things a supply of content, for We offer purchasers a freesat proposition with access to over audiences for that content, for advertising sales and for customers 270 free-to-view television and radio channels including regional to its Tv and other related services, broadband and telephony variants and interactive services, without a monthly subscription services see Principal risks and uncertainties below.
Consumers must purchase a package of digital satellite competitive set can be categorised as follows: reception equipment, including a digital satellite smartcard and competition from other video distributors and video distribution standard installation, to take advantage of this offering.
The channels: purchasers of this proposition are not obliged to subscribe to our pay television service: however, the proposition offers an easy competition from broadband and telephony fixed and mobile upgrade path to our DTH pay television service.
providers: emerging forms of distribution competition from other television channels: and Through our Product Research Group we constantly evaluate competition from sellers of advertising air time.
new technologies and potential new forms of distribution for our In recent years, large parts of telecommunications network services, such as Internet Protocol IP Television, emerging wireless infrastructure have been upgraded from circuit-switched networks technologies such as new variants of Wi-Fi and Wimax and the use to packet-switched IP networks.
These IP networks are able to of advanced spectrum technologies such as Software Defined carry video content in addition to voice and other data and, together Radio and the use of white spaces in broadcasting spectrum.
As with the digitalisation of content, have facilitated a convergence part of this evaluation work we may conduct various technical trials between media and telecommunications companies.
including trials involving selected groups of staff or customers.
This technical convergence has also increased the propensity for We also participate actively in the Digital video Broadcasting companies to offer a bundle of services to customers typically, a DvB standardisation group both in the various working groups triple play of broadband access, telephony and video content as and at the level of the DvBs Steering Board, which gives us early they seek to make efficient use of their networks.
exposure to other emerging technologies.
TeCHNOLOGY AND INFRASTRUCTURe MARKeTING We control access to some channels offered on our DTH service The principal types of marketing used by us to promote our products through the use of a conditional access system, videoGuard see and services are press including both national and regional encryption of digital services below.
The satellite reception newspapers and magazines, media inserts, door drops, direct equipment provided to DTH customers is owned by them, except for mailings, outdoor activity such as billboards and bus backs, oncertain aspects such as the smartcard a credit card size plastic card air advertising on both national and regional radio and television containing a chip that provides conditional access functionality, channels on both promotional and commercial airtime, outbound some of the software in all set-top boxes and a proportion of the calling, online advertising on both third party websites and on sky.
com, hard drive capacity in some of the Sky PvRs and Sky HD PvRs.
advertising in our customer magazine, point of sale advertising in retail Following its acquisition of Amstrad in fiscal 2008, the Group outlets which sell our products and services and Sky retail stores.
designs, develops and sells SD and HD PvR set-top boxes.
ADveRTISING AND SPONSORSHIP Our set-top boxes use an ePG which has been and continues to be In fiscal 2011, we derived revenue from continuing operations of 458 developed for us by NDS Limited NDS.
Historically our set-top million from advertising sales and sponsorship 2010: 340 million.
boxes have used an operating system licensed from OpenTv, Inc. however, earlier in this fiscal year we deployed a new operating We sell advertising for all of the Sky Channels as well as for their system into our HD capable set-top boxes.
This operating system multiplexes around all programmes broadcast on these channels.
was developed in conjunction with NDS under the project name We also act as the advertising sales representative for certain Darwin, and supports the Sky Anytime service, as well as providing third party channels.
We sell advertising time across all of the Sky a significantly more flexible platform for the development of Channels and third party channels represented by us, and tailor additional new features and functionality.
HD capable set-top boxes distribution according to the target audience an advertiser is trying with the new operating system include an emulator which allows to reach.
We also sell advertising online.
them to continue to run applications developed for the OpenTv COMPeTITION operating system.
This continues to ensure the universal availability of enhanced services to all DTH set-top boxes.
Sky is a channel provider, a distributor of television services and a DTH satellite platform service provider.
Sky also offers broadband and telephony services, as well as a range of other services including variants of video on demand vOD via the set-top box and online, games via both interactive Tv and the internet, and betting and gaming services via Tv, telephone and the internet.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 14 Book 1. indb 14 12 10 11 20:46:55 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIReCTORS RePORT BUSINeSS RevIeW these services upon request and on fair, reasonable and nonencryption of digital services discriminatory terms.
The Group is also required to provide We use videoGuard conditional access technology to encrypt and ePG services to broadcasters on fair, reasonable and nondecrypt digital television and audio services and to control access discriminatory terms.
to certain channels on our DTH platform.
Satellites We use the videoGuard technology and distribute smartcards in the UK and Ireland under an agreement with NDS.
NDS supplies We contract with SeS Astra for the majority of capacity on the smartcards and undertakes ongoing security development and satellite transponders that we use for digital transmissions for other support services in return for the payment of fees by us.
reception by both DTH Customers and cable operators.
SeS Astra is 100% owned by SeS, a Luxembourg company listed on In conjunction with NDS, we maintain a policy of refining and the Luxembourg Stock exchange and euronext Paris.
We consider updating the videoGuard technology in order to restrict that this arrangement with SeS Astra, which is discussed below in unauthorised DTH reception of our services.
We take appropriate further detail, is essential to the business of the Group within the measures to counter the threats of unauthorised reception, meaning of section 417 5 c of the Companies Act 2006. including the implementation of over-the-air countermeasures altering authorised smartcards in a manner which then renders For the transmission of our DTH service, we have contracted for counterfeit smartcards obsolete and seeking legal remedies, both capacity on 32 transponders from SeS Astra on SeS satellites civil and criminal, reasonably available to us.
We have also contracted, via an agreement with Arqiva, for capacity on five transponders on the eurobird The second routine replacement of digital smartcards since our satellite, which is owned and operated by eutelsat.
In June 2009, digital launch in 1998 was successfully completed last year.
The we signed a long term transponder arrangement with SeS Astra new smartcards deployed include various additional counterwhich covers the renewal of the arrangements on 24 of our piracy measures which provide us with an improved capability to transponders.
Those transponder agreements have expiry dates counteract attempts to hack our system.
between 2019 and 2025 and thus provide long term security for We constantly monitor and review other methods of piracy of our the platform.
As part of this arrangement we also entered into services that may be developed and where appropriate we deploy an inter-satellite back-up transponder agreement which provides counter-measures to thwart such activities.
protection for all of our transponders in the event of transponder or satellite failures.
We believe that we have suffered a loss of wholesale cable revenue as a result of the availability of cable piracy devices in relation In addition to using some of the transponder capacity that to both analogue and digital cable television services.
We are we have contracted to broadcast Sky Channels, some of our unable to quantify this loss, including whether or not such loss transponder capacity and in some cases all of the capacity on a is material.
We have not to date invoiced any cable operator in particular transponder is sub-contracted to third parties for the respect of such lost cable revenue and such lost revenue has not transmission of other channels or services, including certain of the been recognised within our consolidated financial statements.
During 2011, vM replaced its own smart cards with a more secure We have been designated a non pre-emptible customer under version and we believe this action will have significantly reduced each of our transponder agreements.
This means that, in the the amount of cable piracy in the UK.
event of satellite or transponder malfunction, our use of these On DTT the provision of our Sky Sports 1 and 2 channels is transponders cannot be suspended or terminated by SeS Astra or protected by the encryption system deployed on behalf of Top Up eutelsat in favour of another broadcaster with pre-emption rights Tv and BT.
encryption of channels retailed by third parties We have also put in place disaster recovery plans in the event that we experience any significant disruption of our transponder Any potential DTH broadcaster wishing to operate and capacity.
To date, we have not experienced any such significant independently retail an encrypted television service within the disruption.
However, the operation of both the Astra and eutelsat UK and Ireland must either acquire an alternative encryption and satellites is outside our control and a disruption of transmissions conditional access technology from someone other than us, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, depending build its own decoder base capable of receiving transmissions on the number of transponders affected and the duration of the encrypted using that technology, or, in respect of digital services, disruption.
contract with us for conditional access services in respect of access to the installed videoGuard decoder base.
Our transponder agreements with SeS Astra provide that our rights are subject to termination by SeS Astra in the event In addition to providing broadcast conditional access services, that SeS Astras franchise is withdrawn by the Luxembourg both for our own DTH service and those of third parties, we government.
provide digital access control services for interactive services produced by us and others, including using a telephone return Capital expenditure programme path to carry out transactions between suppliers and viewers.
We continue to invest consistently in capital expenditure required These broadcast conditional access and access control services to support our growth strategies.
Total capital expenditure, are regulated by Ofcom and require the Group to provide AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 15 Book 1. indb 15 12 10 11 20:46:55 DIReCTORS RePORT BUSINeSS RevIeW Review of the business continued excluding business combinations, for the Group was 425 million On 8 February 2010 the Group announced that it had successfully in 2011.
This included investments in core services: information placed a shareholding of approximately 10.4% in ITv in accordance systems infrastructure: broadcast infrastructure: broadband and with the final undertakings given by Sky to the Secretary of State telephony infrastructure: new product development: property: and for Business, Innovation and Skills relating to Skys investment in ITv.
investments relating to customer service improvements.
The placing by Sky of 404,362,095 ITv shares with Morgan Stanley Securities Limited at 48.5 pence per ITv share resulted in aggregate Sky began broadcasting from its new state-of-the-art production consideration of approximately 196 million.
facility Sky Studios on 4 July 2011.
The Groups total capital expenditure in relation to the Sky Studios project during the period SIGNIFICANT AGReeMeNTS to 30 June 2011 was 48 million.
The Group expects to spend an The Companies Act 2006 requires us to disclose the following additional 18 million in the period to 30 June 2012. significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate on a As is common with capital expenditure projects, there are risks that change of control of the Company: they may not be implemented as envisaged: or that they may not be premier league completed either within the proposed timescale or budget: or that the anticipated business benefits of the projects may not be fully In 2009, British Sky Broadcasting Limited a group subsidiary achieved.
entered into an agreement the PL Licence with The Premier League Limited the PL, pursuant to which the Group was awarded the customer management centres and Sky In-Home five of six available packages of live audio-visual rights for Premier Service limited League football the six packages are together the Live Packages.
Our customer management centres are based in Scotland, The PL will not award all of the Live Packages to a single licensee Stockport, Sheffield, London and Leeds.
We have announced that either on its own or as part of a consortium or through one or more we are opening a new centre in Newcastle.
The centres functions of its related parties the Single Buyer Rule.
include the handling of orders from customers, the establishment Pursuant to the PL Licence, the PL can suspend and or terminate and maintenance of customer accounts, invoicing and revenue all of the rights which are included in, or exercisable as part of, one collection, telemarketing and customer service.
These functions of the six available Live Packages in the event that a change of permit the centres to play a key role in both customer acquisition control of the Company occurs at any time prior to the expiry of the and customer retention.
PL Licence which, if it had occurred prior to the award of the Live The customer management centres also support nationwide Packages to the Group, would have resulted in a breach of the Single installation and servicing of digital satellite reception equipment Buyer Rule.
The Group also provides an aftercare service to the DTH Customer base in relation to digital satellite revolving Credit Facility reception equipment which is both in, and out of, warranty.
The Group has a 750 million syndicated revolving credit facility RCF with a maturity date of 30 July 2013. playout and uplink facilities There is an opportunity to request an extension of one or two Our uplinking facilities, located in southern england, provide further year s to the RCF, at the lenders discretion, with a potential uplinking capacity for our digital services to the Astra 2A, 2B and 2D final maturity of July 2015. satellites as well as eutelsats eurobird 1 satellite.
The lenders can require any amounts outstanding under the Our television channels are distributed from two sites with each revolving credit facility to be repaid in the event of a change of the sites providing backup service for the other.
The Osterley of control of the Company other than in the event that News sourced channels are fed to the uplink sites using a fibre link, which Corporation or any subsidiary or holding company thereof acquires is backed up by a diversely routed secondary link in the case of any such control.
malfunction in the primary fibre route.
This route passes through the other facility so that, in the case of one facility being unavailable, news Corporation voting agreement the services can be uplinked directly from the other facility.
On 21 September 2005, the Company, BSkyB Holdco Inc. News UK For those third parties to whom we sub-contract transponder Nominees Limited and News Corporation entered into a voting capacity, we usually have agreements in place to provide uplinking agreement, pursuant to which News UK Nominees Limiteds voting facilities as well.
rights at any general meeting are capped at 37.19% the voting Agreement.
The provisions of the voting Agreement cease to apply MINORITY eQUITY INveSTMeNTS inter alia, on a change of control of the Company.
ItV emtn bond issue On 17 November 2006, the Group acquired 696 million shares in ITv On 3 April 2007, the Group established a euro medium term note plc ITv representing 17.9% of the issued share capital of ITv, at a programme the eMTN Programme which provides the Group with price of 135 pence per share.
The total consideration paid amounted a standardised documentation platform to allow for senior debt to 946 million.
issuance in the eurobond markets.
The maximum potential issuance under the eMTN Programme is 1 billion.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 16 Book 1. indb 16 12 10 11 20:46:55 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIReCTORS RePORT BUSINeSS RevIeW On 14 May 2007, the Company issued eurobonds consisting of Licensees have an ongoing obligation to comply with these 300 million guaranteed notes paying 6.000% interest and ownership restrictions.
Failure by a licensee to do so either by the maturing on 14 May 2027 the Notes.
The Notes were issued licensee becoming a disqualified person or any change affecting under the Groups eMTN Programme.
the nature, characteristics or control of the licensee which would have precluded the original grant of the licence may constitute a Pursuant to the final terms attaching to the Notes, a holder of the breach of the licence and, if not rectified, could result in revocation Notes has the option to require the Company to redeem or at of the licence.
the Companys option purchase its Notes at its principal amount plus interest for the relevant period if there is a change of control of the Company i which within 90 days of the change of control, if the Notes carry an investment grade credit rating, results in a downgrade to a non-investment grade rating or a withdrawal of that rating: or ii where, if the Notes carry a non-investment grade rating, results in a downgrade by one or more notches or a withdrawal of that non-investment grade rating: or iii where, if the Notes do not carry a credit rating, the Company does not seek such a rating or is unable to achieve such a rating, provided that in each case, the change of control is cited by the ratings agencies as being the rationale for the downgrade.
February 2008 and november 2008 bond issues In February 2008, the Group entered into an indenture in respect of US$750 million 6.100% senior unsecured notes due 2018.
In November 2008, the Group entered into an indenture in respect of US$600 million 9.500% senior unsecured notes due 2018.
Pursuant to the final terms attaching to the securities, a holder of the securities has the option to require the Company to redeem or purchase its securities at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest up to the date of repurchase, if there is a change of control of the Company i which, if the securities carry an investment grade credit rating, results in a downgrade to a non-investment grade rating or a withdrawal of that rating: or ii which, within 90 days of the change of control, if the securities carry a non-investment grade rating, results in a downgrade by one or more notches or a withdrawal of that non-investment grade rating: or iii where if the securities do not carry a credit rating, the Company does not seek such a rating or is unable to achieve such a rating, provided that in each case, the change of control is cited by the ratings agencies as being the rationale for the downgrade.
uk broadcasting licences The Group is party to a number of Ofcom broadcasting licences for the broadcast of the Sky Channels.
The Broadcasting Act 1990 as amended by the Broadcasting Act 1996 and the Communications Act lays down a number of restrictions on those parties permitted to hold Ofcom broadcasting licences.
Among those restricted from holding Ofcom broadcasting licences or from controlling a licensed company are a local authorities, b political bodies, c religious bodies, d any company controlled by any of the previous categories or by their officers or associates, e advertising agencies or any company controlled by such an agency or in which it holds more than a 5% interest.
Ofcom also has a duty under the Broadcasting Acts to be satisfied that any person holding a broadcasting licence is fit and proper to hold those licences.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 17 Book 1. indb 17 12 10 11 20:46:55
