Annual Report 11 front end final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:16 Page 6 Business Review Chairmans Statement I am pleased to be able to report another year of strong growth for JLT with a substantial increase in revenues and profits Geoffrey Howe Chairman I am pleased to be able to report another year of strong growth for I am pleased to report that the directors have resolved to JLT with a substantial increase in revenues and profits.
These are a recommend an increased final dividend of 14.8 pence per share for strong set of results particularly when viewed against the challenging the year to 31st December 2011 which will be paid on 1st May 2012 economic conditions, the very competitive insurance rating to shareholders on the register at 10th April 2012.
This brings the environment experienced in the year and the lacklustre GDP growth total dividend for the year to 24 pence per share, an overall increase in many of the more mature markets in which we trade.
The Chief Executives Review, the Review of Operations and the Performance Finance Directors Review cover the performance of the Group in Total revenue increased by 10% to 818.8 million, or 8% at constant more detail.
rates of exchange, with organic growth of 7%.
Over recent years JLT has invested steadily in the recruitment of talented individuals Offer by JMH Investments Limited who share our culture and values.
We have also continued to make During 2011 our major shareholder, Jardine Matheson, determined targeted acquisitions of specialty focused businesses.
These that it wanted to increase its shareholding in JLT.
The Board targeted investments have helped us achieve and sustain strong welcomed this initiative because of the stability and confidence rates of organic growth relative to our competitors over the last five which we believe flow to JLT as a result of having a strong and years.
There was no material net revenue impact from acquisitions in supportive major shareholder in terms of attracting and retaining 2011. clients and staff.
Jardine Matheson's influence and contacts Underlying profit before tax was 147.6 million, up 13%, while throughout Asia are also of great assistance to us.
reported profit before tax was 134.5 million, also up 13%.
The partial offer to purchase 21.73 million shares at 765p per share Net exceptional costs of 13.1 million in the year were mainly was heavily oversubscribed and resulted in the offer b ecoming attributable to our Business Transformation Programme.
Our trading unconditional in November 2011.
Jardine Matheson now holds profit margin increased 60 basis points to 18% which is encouraging 40.20% of the share capital of JLT.
given that we continue to invest for further growth.
Reported diluted earnings per share was 40.4 pence 2010: 41.7 Share buy-back pence.
This 3% reduction in our reported earnings per share is the We will, as in previous years, be seeking renewal of our standing consequence of the benefit of a non-recurring tax credit of 10.3 share buy-back authority at the forthcoming Annual General million in the prior year.
Our underlying diluted earnings per share of Meeting.
Corporate developments The Group has continued to follow its strategy to extend and develop its business with the ongoing expansion of our European presence which included the merging of our Italian business with that of Marine & Aviation S. p. A. and the acquisition in February 2012 of a 25% holding in a new joint venture in Spain formed with MarchUnipsa.
During the year the Group also increased its shareholding in Siaci Saint Honor from 20% to 26%.
6 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2011
