BUSINESS REVIEW INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE Our BT Retail business grew its share of the broadband market.
Our Ian Livingston retail market share excluding cable was 36% in the year.
This is Chief Executive important as broadband is increasingly the means of accessing a range of services including TV, education and entertainment.
After a tough 18 months, BT Business is back on track, signing up small and medium-sized businesses to IT and mobility services.
BT Global Services reached a significant milestone becoming operating cash ow positive a year ahead of schedule.
Our investment in the Asia Pacic region where we are extending our presence to better serve multinational corporations based in Asia and expanding into Asia is going well.
And our sales teams are signing important deals with new and existing customers building on our position as a global leader in managed networked IT A better business services.
BT has become a better business in the last year by staying Our BT Wholesale business is successfully moving from being a focused on improving customer service and transforming costs, traditional UK wholesale provider to one thats providing long-term and by investing in the areas that we believe will deliver future managed network services and network outsourcing to the UK growth.
However, we still have much more to do in all these areas.
Our annual report will give you a good summary of the progress Communication is ever more at the centre of our customers lives were making and Id like to share my thoughts on how were and businesses.
The more they rely on it, the more they expect from doing in creating a better future for BT.
BT and we are happy to step up to that challenge.
BT is delivering Financially, we now have a much stronger base.
Weve nearly better service and much improved financial results allowing us to trebled adjusted free cash ow in the last two years to over invest in the UK and across the globe.
We still have much to do, but 2.2bn.
We intend to build on this in the year ahead as we pursue we are making progress in building a better business with a better our goal of growing the business whilst continuing to grow our future for all our stakeholders.
Thank you for your support.
Delivering excellent customer service, right first time, is important for our customers and is a critical factor in helping to transform costs.
Weve made improvements in many areas, though this was masked by problems when a huge upsurge in demand for our engineers and very poor winter weather meant we didnt always deliver on our promises.
While we are largely on top of things now, lessons have been learnt in making sure that we get better forecasts Ian Livingston from our communications provider customers and by having a Chief Executive greater exibility in our resourcing.
11 May 2011 Improvements in our processes have helped drive efficiency with total operating costs reducing by over 1bn in the year.
This has freed up financial and other resources which will allow us to invest in potential growth areas.
While its early days, there are positive signs that these investments are starting to pay off.
For example, Openreachs bre broadband network roll-out is on track to pass 5m UK premises by spring 2011 well on our way to 10m premises by 2012.
Thousands of customers are taking up super-fast bre-based broadband every week and really like the service.
The overall growth in the broadband market has also been the driver of customers seeking to be connected to xed lines, with the number of copper lines increasing for the first time for many years.
2.2bn 5m 36% Adjusted free cash ow UK premises passed by super-fast BTs retail share of DSL and LLU broadband by spring 2011 broadband market BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 9 BUSINESS REVIEW
