Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial Investment Limits and Restrictions statements for the year ended 31st December 2011. all at time of investment The Company will not normally invest more than 8% of its gross assets in any one individual stock 31st December Business Review 2011:4.5% largest individual stock.
Business of the Company The Company will normally limit its 5 largest investments to The Company carries on business as an investment trust and 40% of its gross assets.
was approved by HM Revenue and Customs as an investment trust in accordance with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax The Company will not invest more than 10% of its gross Act 2010 for the year ended 31st December 2010.
In the assets in liquidity funds in normal market conditions opinion of the Directors, the Company has subsequently 31st December 2011: 8.0%.
conducted its affairs so that it should continue to qualify as an The Company will not invest more than 10% of gross assets investment trust under HM Revenue and Customs qualifying in companies that themselves may invest more than 15% of rules.
gross assets in UK listed investment companies.
Approval for previous years is subject to review should there The Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross be any subsequent enquiry under Corporation Tax Self assets in other UK listed investment companies Assessment.
The Company is an investment company within the meaning of The Company will use gearing when appropriate to Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is not a increase potential returns to shareholders: the Companys close company for taxation purposes.
policy is to use gearing for tactical purposes in a range of A review of the Companys activities and prospects is given in 95-120% in normal market conditions 31st December 2011: the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 5 and the Investment 97%.
Managers Report on pages 6 to 9.
The Company only hedges its currency risk in respect of the Objective geared portion of the portfolio.
The Companys objective is to achieve capital growth from Compliance with the Boards investment restrictions and North American investments by out-performance of the guidelines is monitored by the Manager and is reported to the Companys benchmark, the S&P 500 Index expressed in Board on a monthly basis.
Performance Investment Policies and Risk Management In the year ended 31st December 2011, the Company In order to achieve its investment objectives and to seek to produced a total return to shareholders of 3.9% and a total manage risk, the Company mainly invests in a diversified return on net assets of 0.5%.
This compares with the return portfolio of quoted companies including, when appropriate, on the Companys benchmark in sterling terms, of 2.6%.
At exposure to smaller capitalisation stocks.
The Company 31st December 2011, the value of the Companys investment currently has separate portfolios dedicated to larger portfolio was 425.2 million.
The Investment Managers capitalisation and smaller capitalisation exposure.
The number Report on pages 6 to 9 includes a review of developments of investments in the larger capitalisation portfolio will during the year as well as information on investment activity normally range between 60-100 stocks representing between within the Companys portfolio.
80-100% of the Companys equity portfolio.
The number of investments in the smaller capitalisation portfolio will normally Total Return, Revenue and Dividends range between 100-120 stocks representing between 0-20% Gross total return for the year amounted to 9.9 million 2010: of the Companys equity portfolio.
The Company may invest 63.1 million and net total return after deducting finance in pooled funds to achieve these aims.
costs, administrative expenses and taxation, amounted to 2.7 million 2010: 56.4 million return.
Distributable income As at the year end, the Company was invested in82 larger for the year totalled 5.0 million 2010: 4.5 million.
capitalisation stocks and118 smaller capitalisation stocks, representing 83.1% and 3.2% of the Companys total assets The Directors recommend a final dividend of 11.0p per share respectively.
2010: 11.0p, payable on 8th May 2012 to shareholders on the 22 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 register at the close of business on 10th April 2012.
This Performance against the Companys peers distribution totals 5.1 million 2010: 4.7 million.
After The principal objective is to achieve capital growth relative payment of the final dividend the revenue reserve will amount to the benchmark.
However, the Board also monitors to 9.7 million 2010: 9.8 million.
performance relative to a broad range of appropriate competitor funds both in the UK and the US.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to monitor and Performance attribution assess the performance of the Company.
The principal KPIs are: The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to assess how the Company achieved its performance relative Performance against the benchmark index to its benchmark index, i. e. to understand the impact on This is an important KPI by which performance is judged.
the Companys relative performance of the various components such as asset allocation, gearing and stock Performance Relative to Benchmark Index selection.
Details of the attribution analysis for the year ended 31st December 2011 are given in the Investment Figures have been rebased to 100 at 31st December 2001 110 Managers Report on page 8.
105 Share price premium discount to net asset value NAV 100 per share The Board has adopted a share repurchase policy that 95 seeks to address imbalances in supply of and demand for 90 the Companys shares in the market and thereby seeks to 85 manage the volatility and absolute level of the premium 80 and discount to NAV per share at which the Companys 75 shares trade.
The Boards intention is to use its share 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 repurchase powers with the aim of establishing a Source: Morningstar.
reasonably stable long term level of premium and discount.
JPMorgan American share price total return.
In the year to 31st December 2011, the shares traded JPMorgan American net asset value per share total return.
between a discount of 0.3% and a premium of 5.3%.
The Benchmark total return is represented by the grey horizontal line.
40 JPMorgan American discount using capital NAV with debt at fair value.
Total expense ratio TER JPMorgan American share price total return.
The TER is the ratio, expressed in percentage terms, of the JPMorgan American net asset value per share total return.
management fee, plus all other operating expenses, but Benchmark total return.
excluding finance costs and any performance fee payable, JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 23 Directors Report continued to the average of the month end net assets during the year.
meetings, and reviews data which shows statistical The TER excluding any performance fee for the year ended measures of the Companys risk profile.
The TER Managers employ the Companys gearing tactically, within including any performance fee payable is the ratio, a strategic range set by the Board.
expressed in percentage terms, of the management fee Market: Market risk arises from uncertainty about the plus all other operating expenses plus any performance fee future prices of the Companys investments.
This market payable, but excluding finance costs, to the average of the risk comprises three elements currency risk, interest month end net assets during the year.
The TER including rate risk and other price risk.
The Board considers asset performance fee payable for the year ended 31st December allocation, stock selection and levels of gearing on a 2011 is 0.69% 2010: 0.81%, regular basis and has set investment restrictions and Share Capital guidelines, which are monitored and reported on by The Company has authority to both purchase shares for JPMAM.
The Board monitors the implementation and cancellation and issue new shares in the market for cash at a results of the investment process with the Manager.
premium to net asset value.
However, the fortunes of the portfolio are significantly determined by market movements in US equities, the rate The Company did not repurchase any shares for cancellation of exchange between US dollars and sterling pounds and during the year 2010: nil.
During the year, the Company issued 3,353,098 new ordinary Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify as shares to the market at an average price of 846.6p per share, an investment trust, the Company must comply with for a total gross consideration of 28,388,000.
Since the year Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 end, the Company has issued a further 1,244,045 shares to Section 1158.
Details of the Companys approval are given the market at an average price of 915.8p per share, for a total under Business of the Company above.
Were the Company gross consideration received of 11.4 million.
to breach Section 1158, it might lose investment trust status Special Resolutions to renew the authorities to issue and and, as a consequence, gains within the Companys repurchase shares will be put to shareholders for approval at portfolio would be subject to Capital Gains Tax.
The the Annual General Meeting.
Section 1158 qualification criteria are continually monitored by JPMAM and the results reported to the Board each Principal Risks month.
The Company must also comply with the provisions With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has drawn up of the Companies Act 2006 and, as its shares are listed on a risk matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
the London Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules and These key risks fall broadly under the following categories: Disclosure & Transparency Rules DTRs.
A breach of the Investment and Strategy: An inappropriate investment Companies Act 2006 could result in the Company and or strategy, for example asset allocation or the level of the Directors being fined or the subject of criminal gearing, may lead to underperformance against the proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules or DTRs Companys benchmark index and peer companies, could result in the Companys shares being suspended from resulting in the Companys shares trading on a wider listing, which in turn would breach Section 1158.
The Board manages this risk by diversification of Directors seek to comply with all relevant regulation and investments and through its investment restrictions and legislation in the UK, Europe and the US and rely on the guidelines which are monitored and reported on regularly services of its Company Secretary, JPMAM, and its by the Managers.
J. P. Morgan Asset Management JPMAM professional advisors to monitor compliance with all provides the Directors with timely and accurate relevant requirements.
management information, including performance data and Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: Details attribution analyses, revenue estimates, liquidity reports of the Companys compliance with Corporate Governance and shareholder analyses.
The Board monitors the best practice, including information on relations with implementation and results of the investment process with shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance the Investment Managers, who attend the majority of Board report on pages 28 to 32.
24 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Operational: Disruption to, or failure of, JPMAMs receives from JPMAM.
As a result of the evaluation process, accounting, dealing or payments systems could prevent the Board confirms that it is satisfied that the continuing accurate reporting and monitoring of the Companys appointment of the Manager is in the interest of shareholders financial position.
The insolvency, negligence, poor as a whole.
administration or fraud at the Companys custodian could result in the Companys securities being lost or that access Management and Performance Fees to them is compromised.
Details of how the Board monitors The basic management fee is calculated and paid quarterly in the services provided by JPMAM and its associates and the arrears and is charged at a rate of 0.5% per annum of the key elements designed to provide effective internal control Companys total assets less current liabilities.
Investments in are included within the Internal Control section of the funds on which JPMAM or any of its associated companies earn Corporate Governance report on pages 28 and 32. a management fee are excluded from the calculation and Financial: The financial risks faced by the Company include therefore attract no fee.
In addition, a performance fee may be market price risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, payable.
The Companys investment in the JPMorgan US Dollar liquidity risk and credit risk.
Further details are disclosed Liquidity Fund is not subject to a management fee.
The performance fee is calculated at the rate of 10% of the Political and Economic: Changes in financial or tax difference between the net asset value capital return and the legislation, including in the US and the European Union, capital return of the S&P 500 Index, expressed in sterling may adversely effect the Company: Current examples are terms.
The performance fee due in respect of any single year is the AIFM Directive and FATCA.
The Manager makes divided into equal parts payable over three years.
recommendations to the Board on accounting, dividend Any negative fee resulting from underperformance is deducted and tax policies and the Board seeks external advice from any unpaid fees brought forward from prior years with where appropriate.
In addition, the Company is subject to any remaining amount of the negative fee carried forward to political risks, such as the imposition of restrictions on the be absorbed in future years.
The performance fee payable in any one year will not exceed Future Developments 0.25% of the fully diluted net asset value at the previous The future development of the Company is much dependent 31st December, with any unpaid excess being carried forward upon the success of the Companys investment strategy in the until paid in full.
light of economic and equity market developments.
The Investment Manager discusses the outlook in his report on In the year ended 31st December 2011 the Companys net asset page 9. value capital return underperformed the capital return of the S&P 500 Index, expressed in sterling terms, by 1.47 percentage Management of the Company points on the above basis.
This results in a negative performance fee calculation of 588,000.
This amount is The Manager and Secretary is J. P. Morgan Asset Management carried forward and will be offset against any future UK Limited JPMAM.
JPMAM is employed under a contract outperformance.
terminable on six months notice, without penalty.
If the Company wishes to terminate the contract on shorter notice, Going Concern the balance of remuneration is payable by way of compensation.
The Directors believe, having considered the Companys investment objectives see page 22, risk management policies JPMAM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank see note 22 on pages 52 to 58, capital management policies which, through other subsidiaries, also provides banking, and procedures see note 23 on page 59, nature of the portfolio dealing and custodian services to the Company.
and expenditure projections: that the Company has adequate The Board conducts a formal evaluation of the Manager on an resources, an appropriate financial structure and suitable annual basis.
The evaluation includes consideration of the management arrangements in place to continue in operational investment strategy and the process of the Manager, existence for the foreseeable future.
For these reasons, they performance against the benchmark and a relevant peer consider there is reasonable evidence to continue to adopt the group over the long term and the support the company going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 25 Directors Report continued Payment Policy Disclosure of information to Auditor It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms for all In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the business and therefore it has no standard payment terms.
In Company at the time when this report was approved: general the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant which business will take place and it is the Boards policy to audit information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of abide by these terms.
As at 31st December 2011, the Company which the Companys auditor is unaware: and had no outstanding trade creditors 2010: nil.
b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that they ought Directors to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to The Directors of the Company who held office at the end of the establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that year, together with their beneficial interests in the Companys information.
share capital, are shown below: The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in 31st December 1st January accordance with the provision of S418 2 of the Companies Act 2011 2011 2006.
Hamish Buchan 10,000 10,000 Section 992 Companies Act 2006 Sarah Bates 5,000 5,000 The following disclosures are made in accordance with Kate Bolsover 1,113 1,113 Section 992 Companies Act 2006: James Fox 35,800 35,800 James Williams 6,000 6,000 Capital Structure The Companys capital structure is summarised on the inside There have been no changes in the above holdings since the cover of this report.
Voting Rights in the Companys shares In accordance with corporate governance best practice, all Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the Directors will retire and seek reappointment at the forthcoming date of this report are given in note 16 to the Notice of AGM on Annual General Meeting.
Sarah Bates, Kate Bolsover, James Fox page 62. and James Williams, being eligible, offer themselves for Environmental Matters, Social and Community Issues reappointment.
Hamish Buchan, having served as a Director for Information on environmental matters, social and community twelve years does not seek reappointment.
The Company has no employees.
The Nomination & Remuneration Committee, having Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights considered their qualifications, performance and contribution At the date of this report, the following had declared a to the Board and its Committees, confirms that each Director notifiable interest in the Companys voting rights: standing for reappointment continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role.
Shareholders Number of voting rights % Director Indemnification and Insurance Brewin Dolphin Limited 6,852,586 14.83 As permitted by the Articles of Association, the Directors have Investec Wealth & Investment the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party Limited including Rensburg 2,826,127 5.96 indemnity, as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
The indemnities were in place during the year and as at JPMorgan Asset Management the date of this report.
UK Limited 2,152,326 5.02 1,2 Chase Nominees 1,908,143 4.47 During the year an insurance policy has been maintained by Legal & General Group plc 1,688,968 3.95 the Company which indemnifies the Directors of the Company against certain liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
1 Held on behalf of JPMAM Investment Trust Investment Account, ISA and SIPP Investors.
There is no cover against fraudulent or dishonest actions.
26 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of Directors consider that it is in the best interests of shareholders Directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and to do so.
As such issues are only made at prices greater than powers to issue or repurchase the Companys shares are the net asset value the NAV, they increase the NAV per share contained in the Articles of Association of the Company and and spread the Companys administrative expenses, other than the Companies Act 2006. the management fee which is charged on the value of the Companys assets, over a greater number of shares.
The issue There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities proceeds are available for investment in line with the in the Company: no special rights with regard to control Companys investment policies.
The Company currently does attached to securities: no agreements between the holders of not hold any shares in the capital of the Company in Treasury.
securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: no agreements which the Company is party to that affect its ii Authority to repurchase the Companys shares for cancellation control following a takeover bid: and no agreements between Resolution 11 the Company and its Directors concerning compensation for At the Annual General Meeting held on 6th May 2011, loss of office.
shareholders gave authority to the Company to purchase up to 14.99% of its then issued share capital.
At that time, Independent Auditors shareholders were informed that this authority would expire on 5th November 2012 but could be renewed by shareholders Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in at any time at a General Meeting of the Company.
The office as auditors to the Company and a resolution proposing Directors consider that the renewal of the authority is in the their re-appointment and authorising the Directors to interests of shareholders as a whole, as the repurchase of determine their remuneration for the ensuing year will be put shares at a discount to the underlying net asset value NAV to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
enhances the NAV of the remaining shares and helps to control the discount and its volatility.
Resolution 7 gives the Company Annual General Meeting authority to buy back its own issued shares in the market as NOTE: THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR permitted by the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
If you are in any doubt as to the action limits the number of shares that could be purchased to a you should take, you should seek your own personal financial maximum of 7,112,450 shares representing approximately advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other 14.99% of the Companys issued shares as at 22nd March 2012 financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of Markets Act 2000. this document.
The authority also sets minimum and maximum prices.
Resolutions relating to the following items of special business will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: If resolution 11 is passed at the AGM, shares repurchased might not be cancelled but rather held as Treasury shares.
The i Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory Company does not have authority to re-issue shares from pre-emption rights resolutions 9 and 10 Treasury at a discount to NAV, therefore any reissue of shares At the Annual General Meeting the Directors will seek renewal from Treasury would be at a premium to the prevailing NAV.
of the authority to issue up to 4,744,800 new ordinary shares The Company has no shares in Treasury at present.
for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,186,200 such amount being equivalent to 10% of the present issued As at 22nd March 2012 being the latest practicable date prior to share capital and disapply pre-emption rights upon such the publication of this document, there were no warrants or issues.
The full text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of options over shares in the capital of the Company.
This authority will expire at the The full text of the resolution is set out in the Notice of Meeting conclusion of the AGM of the Company in 2013 unless renewed on pages 60 and 61.
Repurchases will be made at the discretion at a prior general meeting.
of the Board and will only be made in the market at prices below It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new the prevailing NAV per share, thereby enhancing the NAV of the shares to participants purchasing shares through the JPMorgan remaining shares as and when market conditions are savings products and also to other investors when the appropriate.
