Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial discretion.
Currently the maximum permitted active exposure statements for the year ended 30th September 2011. to each country is 12% points above or below the benchmark index weighting except for Taiwan, South Korea, China and Hong Kong, where the maximum permitted active exposure is Business Review 15 percentage points above or below the benchmark index Business of the Company weighting.
The maximum permitted exposure to each individual The Company carries on business as an investment trust and company is 8% of the Companys total assets, excluding was approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment collective vehicles and Samsung Electronics.
The maximum trust in accordance with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax permitted portfolio weighting of any investment in Samsung Act 2010 Section 1158 for the year ended 30th September Electronics is 5 percentage points above that companys 2010.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has weighting in the benchmark index.
The maximum proportion of subsequently conducted its affairs so that it continues to the Companys total assets that may be represented by the five qualify.
The Company will continue to seek approval under largest holdings in the portfolio is 40%.
Unlisted investments are Section 1158 each year.
permitted with prior approval of the Board.
The Board also permits investment in Australian listed companies, subject to a Approval for the year ended 30th September 2010 is subject limit of 10% of the Companys gross assets.
to review should there be any subsequent enquiry under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
The Company does not invest more than 15% of its gross assets in other UK listed investment companies including investment The Company is an investment company within the meaning of trusts.
The Company does not invest more than 10% of its Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is not a gross assets in companies that themselves may invest more close company for taxation purposes.
than 15% of their gross assets in UK listed investment The Companys registration number is 3374850. companies.
A review of the Companys activities and prospects is given in Liquidity and borrowings are managed with the aim of the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 6, and in the increasing returns to shareholders.
The Companys actual Investment Managers Report on pages 7 to 9. gearing range investments expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds may fluctuate between 90% and 120%.
Objective The Companys objective is to achieve capital growth primarily The use of derivatives is permitted with prior approval of the from investing in equities quoted on the stockmarkets of Asia, Board and within agreed limits.
Currency hedging transactions excluding Japan.
The performance of the Company is are permitted up to 40% of the portfolio but only back into measured against its benchmark index, the MSCI AC Asia sterling.
In addition, sales of country specific index futures are ex Japan Index with net dividends reinvested, in sterling terms.
permitted, limited to the aggregate value of stocks held in the relevant market.
Investment Policies and Risk Management In order to achieve its objective, the Company invests in a Compliance with investment restrictions and guidelines is portfolio of Asian stocks with an emphasis on capital growth monitored continuously by the Manager and is reported to the rather than income, with the likely result that the level of Board on a monthly basis.
These active exposure limits and dividend will fluctuate from year to year.
restrictions may be varied by the Board at any time at its discretion.
Investment risks are managed by diversifying investment over a number of Asian companies.
The number of investments in Performance the Company will normally range between 50 and 80.
The In the year to 30th September 2011, the Company produced a Board seeks to manage the Companys risk relative to its portfolio total return net of fees and expenses of 21.1%, a benchmark index by limiting the active portfolio exposures to total return to Ordinary shareholders of17.8% and a diluted the various countries and stocks covered by the benchmark total return on net assets of20.1%.
This compares with the index and, in some cases, to specific stocks.
These active return on the Companys benchmark index of13.6%.
At exposure limits may be varied at any time by the Board at its 30th September 2011, the value of the Companys investment JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 19 Directors Report continued portfolio was 320.0 million.
The Investment Managers Performance relative to Benchmark Index Report on pages 7 to 9 includes a review of developments Figures have been rebased to 100 at 30th September 2001 during the year.
115 Total Return, Revenue and Dividends 110 Gross total loss for the year amounted to 82.8 million 105 2010: 89.4 million return and net total loss after deducting 100 interest, management expenses, performance fee and taxation amounted to 88.2 million 2010: 85.0 million 95 return.
Distributable income for the year amounted to 90 3,829,000 2010: 2,997,000.
register at the close of business on 6th January 2012.
This JPMorgan Asian Ordinary share price.
JPMorgan Asian diluted net asset value per Ordinary share.
No other dividends were paid in respect of the year.
The The Benchmark is represented by the grey horizontal line.
revenue reserve after this transfer will amount to 589,000 2010: 464,000.
Performance against the Companys peers Key Performance Indicators KPIs The Board also monitors performance relative to a broad The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to monitor and range of competitor funds.
assess the performance of the Company.
The principal KPIs are: Performance attribution Performance against the benchmark The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to The Board monitors performance against a benchmark assess how the Company achieved its performance relative index.
to its benchmark index, i. e. to understand the impact on the Companys relative performance of the various Ten Year Performance components such as gearing, stock selection and currency gains and losses.
Details of the attribution analysis for the Figures have been rebased to 100 at 30th September 2001 year ended 30th September 2011 are given in the 450 Investment Managers Report on page 8.
400 350 Discount to net asset value NAV 300 The Board seeks to address imbalances in the supply of and 250 demand for the Companys shares in the market and 200 thereby seek to reduce the volatility and absolute level of the discount to NAV at which the Companys Ordinary 150 shares trade.
The discount to NAV at the start of the year 100 was 9.2% and at the end it was 7.0%.
The highest and the 50 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 lowest discounts to NAV during the year were 11.8% and 7.0% respectively and the average discount over the year Source: Morningstar MSCI.
The average discount to NAV over the six months JPMorgan Asian Ordinary share price.
Pursuant to the approval JPMorgan Asian diluted net asset value per Ordinary share.
granted by Shareholders at the general meeting held on Benchmark.
23rd February 2011, for a 5% Tender Offer in respect of the 20 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 six month period to 30th September 2011 if the average renew the authority to repurchase shares will be put to discount to NAV was over 9%, the Board has exercised its Shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
discretion to implement a 5% Tender Offer in February During the year the Company issued 158,613 Ordinary shares 2012.
More information on the Companys share discount for a total consideration of 279,000 following the exercise of management policy is given in the Chairmans Statement Subscription shares.
Since the year end a further 9,696 on pages 3 and 4.
Ordinary shares have been issued for a total consideration of 17,000 following the exercise of further Subscription shares.
Discount Performance Further details of the Companys Subscription shares are set 0 out below.
Bonus Issue of Subscription Shares 5 On 4th February 2009 the Company issued Subscription shares as a bonus issue to the Ordinary shareholders on the basis of 10 one Subscription share for every five Ordinary shares held.
Each Subscription share confers the right but not the obligation to 15 subscribe for one Ordinary share on any business day during the period from 1st April 2009 until 31st March 2014, after which 20 the rights attached to the Subscription shares will lapse.
Future exercise prices have been determined as follows: JPMorgan Asian share price discount to diluted net asset value per share.
If Subscription share rights are exercised on any day between and including 1st April 2010 and 31st March 2012, 176 pence.
Total expense ratio TER The TER is an expression of the Companys management fee If Subscription share rights are exercised on any day between and all other operating expenses excluding interest and any and including 1st April 2012 and 31st March 2014, 203 pence.
performance fee payable, as a percentage of the average of Further details on the Subscription shares, including the the month end net assets during the year.
The TER for the apportionments for capital gains tax purposes and how they year ended 30th September 2011 is 0.87% 2010: 0.85%.
may be exercised, can be found on page 68 of this report and The TER for the year ended 30th September 2011 including on the Companys website at www.
any performance fee payable is 0.87% 2010: 0.87%.
The Board reviews each year an analysis which shows a Principal Risks comparison of the Companys TER and its main expenses With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has drawn up a with those of its peers.
The Board considers that the risk matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
Companys TER compares favourably with those of its peers.
These key risks fall broadly under the following categories: Share Capital Investment and Strategy: An inappropriate investment During the year, as a result of a tender offer, the Company strategy, in areas such as asset allocation or the level of repurchased 8,852,698 Ordinary shares, nominal value gearing, may lead to underperformance against the 2,213,000, for cancellation, representing 5.0% of the Companys benchmark index and peer companies, and may Companys issued Ordinary share capital at the beginning of result in the Companys shares trading on a wider discount.
The total consideration paid for these shares The Board seeks to manage these risks by diversification of amounted to 20,562,000.
No other shares were repurchased investments through its investment restrictions and for cancellation during the year.
Since the year end, the guidelines which are monitored and reported on by the Company made market purchases of 1,095,000 Ordinary Manager.
The Manager provides the Directors with timely Shares, for cancellation, representing 0.6% of the Ordinary and accurate management information, including shares outstanding at the beginning of the year.
A resolution to performance data and attribution analysis, revenue JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 21 Directors Report continued estimates and shareholder analysis.
The Board monitors Operational: Disruption to, or failure of, the Managers the implementation and results of the investment process accounting, dealing or payments systems or the custodians with the investment managers, who attend all Board records could prevent accurate reporting and monitoring of meetings, and reviews data which show statistical the Companys financial position.
Details of how the Board measures of the Companys risk profile.
The Manager monitors the services provided by the Manager and its employs the Companys gearing tactically, within a strategic associates and the key elements designed to provide range set by the Board.
The Board holds a separate effective internal control are included with the Internal meeting devoted to strategy each year.
Control section of the Corporate Governance report on page30.
Market: Market risk arises from uncertainty about the future prices of the Companys investments.
It represents Financial: The financial risks faced by the Company include the potential loss that the Company might suffer through market risk comprising currency risk, interest rate risk and holding investments in the face of negative market other price risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
The Board considers asset allocation, stock are disclosed in note 23 on pages 52 to 58. selection and levels of gearing on a regular basis and has Political and Economic: Changes in financial or tax set investment restrictions and guidelines, which are legislation, including in the European Union, may adversely monitored and reported on by the Manager.
The Board effect the Company.
The Manager makes recommendations monitors the implementation and results of the investment to the Board on accounting, dividend and tax policies and process with the Manager.
the Board seeks external advice where appropriate.
Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify as In addition, the Company is subject to political risks, such as an investment trust, the Company must comply with the imposition of restrictions on the free movement of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Section capital.
Details of the Companys approval are given under Future Developments Business of the Company on page 19.
Were the Company The future development of the Company is much dependent to breach Section 1158, it might lose investment trust status upon the success of the Companys investment strategy in the and, as a consequence, gains within the Companys light of economic and equity market developments.
The portfolio would be subject to Capital Gains Tax.
The Section investment managers discuss the outlook in their report on 1158 qualification criteria are continually monitored by pages 7 and 9.
JPMAM and the results reported to the Board each month.
The Company must also comply with the provisions of the Management of the Company Companies Act 2006 and, since its shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules.
A breach The Manager and Secretary is JPMorgan Asset Management of the Companies Act 2006 could result in the Company UK Limited JPMAM.
JPMAM is employed under a contract and or the Directors being fined or the subject of criminal which can be terminated on six months notice in the event of proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules could result the Board giving notice as a result of poor investment in the Companys shares being suspended from listing performance: the notice period is 12 months for all other which in turn would breach Section 1158.
The Board relies circumstances, in both cases without penalty.
If the Company on the services of its Company Secretary, JPMAM, to ensure wishes to terminate the contract on shorter notice, the balance compliance with the Companies Act 2006 and the UKLA of remuneration is payable by way of compensation.
JPMAM is a wholly owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: Details which, through other subsidiaries, also provides banking, of the Companys compliance with Corporate Governance dealing and custodian services to the Company.
best practice, including information on relations with The Board has evaluated the performance of the Manager and shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance confirms that it is satisfied that the continuing appointment of report on pages 26 to 31.
22 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 the Manager is in the interests of Shareholders as a whole.
In The performance fee is based on the audited undiluted NAV arriving at this view, the Board considered the investment total return per share as calculated in accordance with the strategy and process of the Manager, noting performance prevailing accounting policies.
An adjustment is made to relative to the benchmark over various time periods, and the exclude the effect of Subscription share conversions.
No quality of the service that the Company receives from JPMAM.
adjustment is made to exclude the effect of any share buybacks or share issuance.
Management Fee The amount of performance fee payable in any one year is JPMAM is paid a management fee based on the Companys capped at 0.75% of the average monthly total assets less market capitalisation.
This fee uses the average of the current liabilities of the Company for that year.
In order to Companys closing middle market share price for the last five reach this cap, the Company would have to outperform the business days of the relevant month, calculated monthly and Benchmark by 6.5 percentage points in any one year.
paid quarterly at a rate of 0.75% per annum, based on the Any performance fee earned in excess of the cap 0.75% average of the preceding three month end capitalisations.
will be carried forward and will either be paid or be Investments in funds on which JPMAM charges a management available to be offset against any future underperformance.
fee are excluded from this calculation.
The performance fee is calculated annually by reference to In addition to the management fee, the Company reimburses the average monthly total assets less current liabilities of the costs of administering the Companys Shareholders who the Company with an estimate accrued monthly in the hold their shares through the J. P. Morgan Investment Account, NAV and paid within three months of the year end.
Any J. P. Morgan ISA and J. P. Morgan SIPP.
earned but unpaid fees due to the 0.75% cap restriction are carried forward as a liability in the Companys accounts.
Performance Fee During the year ended 30th September 2011, the Companys From 1st October 2006, the Manager has been eligible to undiluted net asset value per share underperformed the receive a performance fee equal to 15% of any Benchmark as inflated by the hurdle.
This results in a negative out-performance of the Companys audited undiluted net asset performance fee calculation of 5,900,000, which is carried value per share NAV total return over the MSCI AC Asia ex forward and must be made good by future out-performance Japan Index return in sterling terms with net dividends before any performance fee becomes payable.
An additional 1.5 percentage points the hurdle is added to the benchmark performance Going Concern for the purposes of the calculation.
This means that the Manager must outperform this inflated amount in order to earn The Directors believe that having considered the Companys a performance fee.
The performance fee has the following investment objective see page 19, risk management policies features: see pages 52 to 58 capital management policies and procedures see page 59 and the nature of the portfolio and The Hurdle is applied in all circumstances regardless of expenditure projections, that the Company has adequate whether out-performance or underperformance has resources, an appropriate financial structure and suitable occurred in any year.
management arrangements in place to continue in operational The performance fee is calculated on a cumulative basis.
existence for the foreseeable future.
For these reasons, they Any underperformance that has occurred in previous years consider that there is reasonable evidence to continue to adopt has to be made up before any performance fee becomes the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 23 Directors Report continued Payment Policy and its committees, confirms that each Director continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role and the It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms for all Board recommends to shareholders that they be reappointed.
business and therefore there are no standard payment terms.
In general the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on Furthermore, having been appointed during the year, Dr Yueh which business will take place and it is the Companys policy to will stand for election at the forthcoming Annual General abide by these terms.
As at 30th September 2011, the Company Meeting, in accordance with the Companys Articles of had no outstanding trade creditors 2010: none.
The Board recommends to shareholders her appointment.
Directors Director Indemnification and Insurance The Directors of the Company who held office during the year, together with their beneficial interests in the Companys shares As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, the are shown below: Directors have the benefit of a deed of indemnity which is a qualifying third party indemnity, as defined by Section 234 of 30th September 1st October the Companies Act 2006.
The deeds of indemnity were Ordinary shares 2011 2010 executed on 23rd November 2010 and are currently in force.
James Long 20,346 18,451 An insurance policy is maintained by the Company which Alun Evans 20,000 19,200 indemnifies the Directors of the Company against certain Ronald Gould 6,973 6,272 liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
There is no cover against fraudulent or dishonest actions.
James Strachan 4,209 4,209 Andrew Sykes 30,000 30,000 Disclosure of information to Auditors Linda Yueh In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the Company at the time when this report was approved: 30th September 1st October 1 Subscription shares 2011 2010 a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of James Long which the Companys auditors are unaware, and Alun Evans b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he she Ronald Gould 949 949 ought to have taken as a Director in order to make James Strachan himself herself aware of any relevant audit information Andrew Sykes 2 and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of Linda Yueh that information.
1 The Company issued Subscription shares on 4th February 2009.
The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in 2 Linda Yueh was appointed to the Board on 1st July 2011. accordance with the provision of 418 2 of the Companies Act Since the year end, Mr Longs and Mr Goulds beneficial 2006. holdings have increased by 355 and 198 Ordinary shares respectively.
Independent Auditors In accordance with corporate governance best practice, all  LLP have expressed their willingness continuing Directors will retire by rotation at the forthcoming to continue in office as auditors to the Company and a Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer resolution to re-appoint them and authorise the Directors to themselves for reappointment.
Mr Evans will be retiring at the determine their remuneration for the ensuing year, will be forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will not be standing proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The Nomination Committee, having considered their qualifications, performance and contribution to the Board 24 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Annual General Meeting Resolution 13 gives the Company authority to buy back its own issued Ordinary shares and Subscription shares in the market NOTE: THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR as permitted by the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
If you are in any doubt as to the action authority limits the number of shares that could be purchased you should take, you should seek your own personal financial to a maximum of: i 25,067,882 Ordinary shares: and advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other ii 1,755,321 Subscription shares, representing approximately financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and 14.99% of the Companys issued Ordinary shares and issued Markets Act 2000.
Subscription shares respectively, as at 19th December 2011 Resolutions relating to the following items of special business being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: document.
The authority also sets minimum and maximum prices.
i Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory pre-emption rights resolutions 11 and 12 If resolution 13 is passed at the AGM, Ordinary shares The Directors will seek renewal of the authority at the AGM to repurchased might not be cancelled but rather held as treasury issue up to 8,361,535 Ordinary shares for cash up to an shares and may subsequently be re-issued at a premium.
The aggregate nominal amount of 2,090,383 such amount being Company does not have authority to re-issue Ordinary shares equivalent to 5% of the present issued ordinary share capital as from treasury at a discount to NAV, therefore any re-issue of at the last practicable date before the publication of this Ordinary shares from treasury would be at a premium to the document.
The full text of the resolutions is set out in the prevailing NAV.
Any Subscription shares purchased by the Notice of Meeting on page 62.
This authority will expire at the Company shall be cancelled and shall not be held in treasury conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in for re-issue or resale.
As at 19th December 2011 being the 2013 unless renewed at a prior general meeting.
latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document, there were no warrants or options over Ordinary It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new shares in the capital of the Company, other than the 11,709,950 shares to participants purchasing shares through the JPMorgan Subscription shares in issue each of which gives the holder savings products and also to other investors when the thereof the right to subscribe for one Ordinary share which Directors consider that it is in the best interests of shareholders represent 7.0% of the Companys issued Ordinary share capital.
As such issues are only made at prices greater than If the authority to purchase the Companys Ordinary shares was the net asset value NAV per share, they increase the NAV per exercised in full and the authority to purchase Subscription share and spread the Companys administrative expenses, shares not exercised at all then the Subscription shares would other than the management fee which is charged on the represent 8.2% of the Companys issued Ordinary share capital.
Companys market capitalisation, over a greater number of shares.
The issue proceeds are available for investment in line iii Authority to make two conditional tender offers resolution 14 with the Companys investment policies.
The Company To continue to strengthen its ability to manage the discount to currently does not hold any shares in the capital of the Net Asset Value at which the Companys Ordinary shares may Company in Treasury.
trade from time to time, the Board is seeking the relevant authorities to enable the Company to implement two ii Authority to repurchase the Companys shares for cancellation conditional tender offers the Conditional Tender Offers, the resolution 13 first for the period ending 31st March 2012 the First The authorities to repurchase up to 14.99% of the Companys Conditional Tender Offer and the second for the period issued Ordinary shares and Subscription shares, granted by ending 30th September 2012 the Second Conditional Tender shareholders at the 2011 AGM, will expire on 30th July 2012 Offer.
If implemented, the Conditional Tender Offers will be unless renewed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
of the Companys Ordinary shares, in issue The Directors consider that the renewing of the authority is in on 31st March 2012 for the First Conditional Tender Offer and the interests of shareholders as a whole, as the repurchase of 30th September 2012 for the Second Conditional Tender Offer.
shares at a discount to the underlying NAV enhances the NAV The price at which the Companys Ordinary shares will be of the remaining shares.
purchased under the Conditional Tender Offers will be the JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
