Directors Report The Directors present their report and audited financial The Board has set no minimum or maximum limits on the statements for the year ended 30th June 2011. number of investments in the portfolio but it is a relatively concentrated portfolio consisting typically of between 60 and Business Review 90 investments.
The assets are managed by an investment manager based in London who is supported by a 50 strong Business of the Company emerging markets equity team.
The Company carries on business as an investment trust and was approved by HM Revenue and Customs as an investment It should be noted that historically, emerging market trust in accordance with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax companies and investments in their shares have shown Act 2010 Section 1158 for the year ended 30th June 2010. greater volatility and may be subject to certain political and In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has subsequently corporate governance risks which are not typically associated conducted its affairs so that it should continue to qualify.
The with more developed markets and economies.
Company will continue to seek approval under Section 1158 Investment Restrictions and Guidelines each year.
The Board seeks to manage the Companys risk by imposing Approval for the year ended 30th June 2010 is subject to various investment limits and restrictions: review should there be any subsequent enquiry under As an investment trust, the Company cannot invest more Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
than 15% of its assets in any one investment, at the time of The Company is an investment company within the meaning of acquisition.
The Company will not invest more than 10% of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is not a its total assets in any one individual stock excluding close company for taxation purposes.
investment trusts at the time of acquisition.
A review of the Companys activities and prospects is given in No more than 50% of the Companys assets may be the Chairmans Statement on pages2 and3, and in the invested in any one region.
No more than an aggregate of 25% of the Companys Objective assets before deducting borrowings may be invested The Companys objective is to achieve capital growth from in: i securities not listed on any recognised investment emerging markets worldwide.
exchange: and ii holdings in which the Companys interest amounts to 20% or more of the aggregate of the equity Investment Policies and Risk Management capital including any capital having an element of equity In order to achieve the investment objective and to seek to of any one listed company other than an investment trust manage risk, the Company invests in a well diversified spread which has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs or of countries, industries and companies.
The Company invests which would qualify for such approval but for the fact that primarily in quoted securities in emerging stock markets but, it is not listed.
where necessary or appropriate in the absence of suitable quoted securities, it may invest in unquoted securities.
It may In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing invest in other collective investment schemes, but usually only Authority, the Company will not invest more than 15% of where legal restrictions prevent direct investment by its gross assets in other UK listed investment companies foreigners or prudent diversification can best be achieved in and will not invest more than 10% of its gross assets in this way.
The Company conducts its affairs so as to achieve and companies that themselves may invest more than 15% maintain approved investment trust status in the UK.
of gross assets in UK listed investment companies.
The Company is managed to produce capital growth and not to The Company does not normally enter into derivative produce any particular level of dividend and it will only pay transactions, other than short term forward currency dividends to the extent necessary to maintain investment trust contracts to manage working capital requirements and to status.
do so requires prior Board approval.
The Boards policy is to employ gearing when the Manager These limits and restrictions may be varied by the Board at any believes it is appropriate to do so.
The Board regularly reviews time at its discretion.
Should the Manager decide to employ gearing, the Compliance with the Boards investment restrictions and Company will remain invested in the range of 90-120% under guidelines is monitored continuously by the Manager and is normal market conditions.
reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 19 Directors Report continued Performance Ten Year Performance In the year to 30th June 2011, the Company produced a total Figures have been rebased to 100 at 30th June 2001 return to Ordinary shareholders of 20.1% and an undiluted 600 total return on net assets of 21.4%.
This compares with the return on the Companys benchmark index of 19.1%.
At 500 30th June 2011, the value of the Companys investment 400 portfolio including liquidity fund holdings was 766.9 million.
300 The Investment Managers Report on pages4to8 includes a review of developments during the year as well as information 200 on investment activity within the Companys portfolio.
100 Total Return, Revenue and Dividends 0 Gross total return for the year amounted to 155.1 million 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2010: 191.5 million and net total return after deducting Source: Morningstar Datastream.
management fee, performance fee, other administrative JPMorgan Emerging Markets share price total return.
expenses, finance costs and taxation amounted to JPMorgan Emerging Markets undiluted net asset value total return.
the year amounted to 6.2 million 2010: 5.1 million.
Performance against the Companys peers The Directors recommend a final dividend of 3.5p per share The principal objective is to achieve capital growth relative payable on 21st November 2011 to holders on the register at to the benchmark.
However, the Board also monitors the the close of business on 28th October 2011.
This distribution performance relative to a broad range of competitor funds.
The revenue reserve after Performance attribution payment of the final dividend will amount to 6.1 million The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to 2010: 4.0 million.
assess how the Company achieved its performance relative Key Performance Indicators KPIs to its benchmark index, i. e. to understand the impact on The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to monitor and the Companys relative performance of the various assess the performance of the Company.
The principal KPIs are: components such as asset allocation and stock selection.
Details of the attribution analysis for the year ended Performance against the benchmark index 30th June 2011 are given in the Investment Managers This is the most important KPI by which performance is Report on page5.
Information on the Companys performance is given in the Chairmans Statement and the Investment Discount to net asset value NAV Managers Report.
The Board has a share repurchase policy which seeks to address imbalances in supply of and demand for the Performance Relative to Benchmark Index Companys shares within the market.
This helps to reduce the volatility and absolute level of the discount to NAV per Figures have been rebased to 100 at 30th June 2001 share at which the Companys shares trade in relation to its 150 peers in the sector.
In the year to 30th June 2011, the 140 Companys shares traded at a discount to diluted net asset value per share of between 4.3% and 10.7%.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets share price total return.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets undiluted net asset value total return.
Benchmark represented by the horizontal line.
20 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 further conversion requests, a further 29,698 Ordinary shares Discount Performance have been issued for a total consideration of 136,611.
0 The Company does not currently hold any shares in Treasury and does not have authority to reissue shares from Treasury at 5 a discount to net asset value per share.
10 Subscription Shares On 11th June 2009 the Company issued 22,059,783 Subscription 15 shares as a bonus issue to Ordinary shareholders on the basis of one Subscription share for every five Ordinary shares held.
Each 20 Subscription share confers the right but not the obligation to 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 subscribe for one Ordinary share on any business day during Source: Datastream month end data.
the period from 1st August 2009 to 31st July 2014 both dates JPMorgan Emerging Markets share price discount to diluted net asset value per inclusive when the rights under the Subscription shares will Ordinary share.
Total expense ratio TER Future exercise prices have been determined as follows: The TER represents the Companys management fee and if exercised between 1st August 2010 and 31st July 2012, all other operating expenses excluding interest and 460 pence: and performance fee payable, expressed as a percentage of the average of the month end net assets during the year.
if exercised between 1st August 2012 and 31st July 2014, The method of calculating the TER has been changed.
In previous years, the TER represented the Companys Further details on the Subscription shares, including the management fee and other operating expenses excluding apportionments for capital gains tax purposes and how they interest, expressed as a percentage of the average of the may be exercised, can be found on page 61 of this report and opening and closing net assets.
The new methodology on the Companys website at www.
co. uk more accurately reflects the way the management fee is calculated, which is a monthly charge based on month end Principal Risks net assets.
The TER for the year ended 30th June 2011 is With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has drawn up 1.15% 2010: 1.17% as restated previously 1.26%.
The a risk matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
Board reviews each year an analysis which shows a These key risks fall broadly under the following categories: comparison of the Companys TER and its main expenses Investment Underperformance: An inappropriate with those of its peers.
investment strategy, for example asset allocation, the level Share Capital of gearing or the degree of portfolio risk, could lead to The Directors have, on behalf of the Company, the authority underperformance against the Companys benchmark both to repurchase shares in the market for cancellation and to index and peer companies, resulting in the Companys issue new shares for cash on behalf of the Company.
shares trading on a wider discount.
The Board manages these risks by diversification of investments and through No shares were repurchased during the year under review.
The a set of investment restrictions and guidelines which are Company did not allot any new shares for cash other than on monitored and reported on by the Manager.
JPMorgan the conversion of Subscription shares.
Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM provides the Resolutions to renew the authorities to issue new shares and to Directors with timely and accurate management repurchase shares for cancellation will be put to shareholders information, including performance data and attribution for approval at the Annual General Meeting.
analyses, revenue estimates, liquidity reports and shareholder analyses.
The Board monitors the The full text of these Resolutions is set out in the Notice of implementation and results of the investment process with Meeting on pages 58 and 59. the Investment Manager, who attends all Board meetings, During the year the Company issued 3,169,058 Ordinary shares and reviews data which show statistical measures of the for a total consideration of 13,404,000 on the conversion of Companys risk profile.
Since the year end, following the receipt of JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 21 Directors Report continued Political, Economic and Governance: Administrative risks, shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance such as the imposition of restrictions on the free movement report on pages 25 to 29. of capital.
These risks are discussed by the Board on a Operational: Disruption to, or failure of, JPMAMs regular basis.
accounting, dealing or payments systems or the custodians Loss of Investment Team or Investment Manager: A sudden records could prevent accurate reporting and monitoring of departure of the investment manager or several members the Companys financial position.
Details of how the Board of the investment management team could result in a monitors the services provided by JPMAM and its short-term deterioration in investment performance.
The associates and the key elements designed to provide Manager takes steps to reduce the likelihood of such an effective internal control are included within the Internal event by ensuring appropriate succession planning and Control section of the Corporate Governance report on the adoption of a team based approach, as well as special page 28. efforts to retain key personnel.
Financial: The financial risks faced by the Company include Discount: A disproportionate widening of the discount market price risk, interest rate risk and credit risk.
Further relative to the Companys peers could result in loss of value details are disclosed in note 21 on pages 51 to 56. for shareholders.
The Board regularly discusses discount Future Developments policy and has set parameters for the Manager and the The future development of the Company is much dependent Companys broker to follow.
upon the success of the Companys investment strategy in the Change of Corporate Control of the Manager: The Board light of economic and equity market developments in the holds regular meetings with senior representatives of countries in which it invests.
The Investment Manager JPMAM in order to obtain assurance that the Manager discusses the outlook in his report on page8.
continues to demonstrate a high degree of commitment to its investment trusts business through the provision Management of the Company of significant resources.
The Manager and Secretary is JPMorgan Asset Management Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify UK Limited JPMAM.
JPMAM, is employed under a contract as an investment trust, the Company must comply terminable in one years notice unless notice is given as a result with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 of poor investment performance, in which case the contract Section 1158.
Details of the Companys approval are given can be terminated on six months notice.
If the Company under Business of the Company on page 19.
Should the wishes to terminate the contract on shorter notice, the balance Company breach Section 1158, it might lose investment of remuneration is payable by way of compensation.
trust status and, as a consequence, gains within the JPMAM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank Companys portfolio would be subject to Capital Gains Tax.
which, through other subsidiaries, also provides banking, The Section 1158 qualification criteria are continually dealing and custodian services to the Company.
monitored by JPMAM and the results reported to the Board each month.
The Company must also comply with the The Board has evaluated the performance of the Manager and provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and, since its shares confirms that it is satisfied that the continuing appointment are listed on the London Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing of the Manager is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs.
A In arriving at this view, the Board considered the investment breach of the Companies Act could result in the Company strategy and process of the Investment Manager, noting and or the Directors being fined or the subject of criminal consistent outperformance of the benchmark over the long proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules or DTRs term, and the quality of support that the Company receives could result in the Companys shares being suspended from from JPMAM.
listing which in turn would breach Section 1158.
The Board relies on the services of its Company Secretary, JPMAM, and Management and Performance Fees its professional advisers to ensure compliance with the The management fee is charged at the rate of 1.0% per annum Companies Act and the UKLA Listing Rules and DTRs.
of the Companys total assets less current liabilities.
The fee is Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: Details calculated and paid monthly in arrears.
Investments on which of the Companys compliance with Corporate Governance JPMAM earns a fee are excluded from the calculation and best practice, including information on relations with therefore attract no management fee.
22 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 In addition the Manager receives a performance fee equivalent see pages 51 to 56, capital management policies and to 10% of any outperformance of the Companys net asset procedures see page 57, the nature of the portfolio and value NAV per share on an undiluted total return basis over expenditure projections, the Company has adequate resources, the Companys benchmark index, the MSCI Emerging Markets an appropriate financial structure and suitable management Free Index with net dividends reinvested, in sterling terms, arrangements in place to continue in operational existence for over the period since the last performance fee was earned.
For these reasons, they consider that The performance fee is calculated at the end of the Companys there is reasonable evidence to continue to adopt the going financial year and charged to its capital account in the annual concern basis in preparing the accounts.
However, an estimate is accrued on a monthly basis and reflected in the Companys published NAV Payment Policy per share.
It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms for all The amount of performance fee earned and paid to the business and therefore there are no standard payment terms.
Manager each year is subject to the following conditions: In general the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on which business will take place and it is the Companys policy to Any performance fee earned in a given year is divided into abide by those terms.
As at 30th June 2011, the Company had two categories: that which can be offset offsetable by no outstanding trade creditors 2010: none.
underperformance in future years: and that which cannot non-offsetable.
Directors The non-offsetable fee that can be earned in any one year The Directors of the Company who held office at the end of the is capped at 0.75% of the Companys average monthly total year, together with their beneficial interests in the Companys assets less current liabilities for the year.
In a year when the share capital, are given below: Company produces a negative NAV total return per share, 30th June 2011 1st July 2010 the non-offsetable fees earned in that year are accrued Ordinary Subscription Ordinary Subscription but not paid.
In a year when the Company produces a Directors Shares Shares Shares Shares positive NAV total return per share, the Company will pay to the Manager all non-offsetable fees earned in that year David Gamble 3,781 756 3,781 756 and those accrued from previous years, subject to the Anatole Kaletsky 4,203 840 4,203 840 restriction below.
Nigel Kenny 3,500 The maximum fee that can be paid to JPMAM in any one Percy Mistry 3,000 5,000 year is capped at 0.75% of the Companys average monthly Alan Saunders 6,000 5,000 1,000 total assets less current liabilities for the year.
In accordance with corporate governance best practice, all The offsetable fee is uncapped and equal to any fees Directors will retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual earned in excess of the 0.75% cap.
Until paid i. e. in a year General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for when the NAV total return per share is zero or positive, reappointment.
The Nomination Committee, having considered these fees are capable of being absorbed by any their qualifications, performance and contribution to the Board underperformance in a subsequent year.
and its committees, confirms that each Director continues to be The performance fee outperformance calculation restarts effective and demonstrates commitment to the role and the at the end of a period when outperformance of the Board recommends to shareholders that they be reappointed.
benchmark has been achieved and a performance fee earned.
Director Indemnification and Insurance At 30th June 2011, a cumulative non-offsetable performance As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, the fee of 1,941,000 has been earned and this amount is Directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is a immediately payable.
qualifying third party indemnity, as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
The indemnities were in place Going Concern during the year and as at the date of this report.
The Directors believe that having considered the Companys An insurance policy is maintained by the Company which investment objective see page 19, risk management policies indemnifies the Directors of the Company against certain JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 23 Directors Report continued liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
There is no It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new cover against fraudulent or dishonest actions.
shares or to sell Treasury shares to participants purchasing shares through the JPMorgan savings products and also to Disclosure of information to Auditors other investors when the Directors consider that it is in the best interests of shareholders to do so.
As such issues are only made In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the at prices greater than the net asset value the NAV, they Company at the time when this report was approved: increase the NAV per share and spread the Companys a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant administrative expenses, other than the management fee audit information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of which is charged on the value of the Companys assets, over a which the Companys Auditors are unaware, and greater number of shares.
The issue proceeds are available for investment in line with the Companys investment policies.
b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware The Company currently does not hold any shares in the capital of any relevant audit information and to establish that the of the Company in Treasury.
The full text of the resolutions is Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
set out in the Notice of Meeting on page 58.
The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in iii Authority to repurchase the Companys shares for cancellation accordance with the provision of Section 418 of the Companies resolution 13 Act 2006.
The authority to repurchase up to 14.99% of the Companys issued Ordinary share capital and up to 14.99% of the Independent Auditors Companys issued Subscription shares, granted by shareholders at the 2010 AGM will expire on 27th April 2012,  LLP have expressed their willingness unless renewed prior to that time.
The Directors consider that to continue in office as Auditors to the Company and a the renewing of the authority is in the interests of shareholders resolution proposing their reappointment and authorising the as a whole, as in the case of the Ordinary shares, the Directors to determine their remuneration for the ensuing year repurchase of shares at a discount to the underlying NAV will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
enhances the NAV of the remaining Ordinary shares.
Annual General Meeting Resolution 13 gives the Company authority to repurchase its own issued Ordinary shares and Subscription shares in the NOTE: THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR market as permitted by the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
If you are in any doubt as to the action The authority limits the number of shares that could be you should take, you should seek your own personal financial purchased to a maximum of: i 17,147,852 Ordinary shares: and advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other ii 2,693,439 Subscription shares, representing approximately financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and 14.99% of the Companys issued Ordinary shares and issued Markets Act 2000.
Subscription shares respectively, as at 30th September 2011 Resolutions relating to the following items of special business being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting document.
The authority also sets minimum and maximum AGM : prices.
i Continuation vote resolution 10 If resolution 13 is passed at the AGM it is the Companys current The Directors recommend that the Company continues in intention to hold in Treasury any shares it may repurchase existence as an investment trust for a further three year period.
pursuant to the authority granted to it for possible re-issue at a premium to NAV.
This policy is kept under review by the Board.
ii Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory pre-emption rights resolutions 11 and 12 As at 30th September 2011 being the latest practicable date The Directors will seek renewal of the authority at the AGM to prior to the publication of this document, there were no issue up to 5,719,764 new Ordinary shares for cash up to an warrants or options over Ordinary shares in the capital of the aggregate nominal amount of 1,429,941 such amount being Company, other than the 17,968,244 Subscription shares in equivalent to 5% of the present issued ordinary share capital issue each of which gives the holder thereof the right to excluding Treasury shares as at the last practicable date subscribe for one new Ordinary share which represent 15.7% before the publication of this document.
This authority will of the Companys issued Ordinary share capital.
If the authority expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company in 2012 to repurchase the Companys Ordinary shares was exercised in unless renewed at a prior general meeting.
full and the authority to repurchase Subscription shares not 24 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
