Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial The Company will not normally invest in derivatives.
statements for the year ended 31st October 2011.
The Company will utilise liquidity and borrowings in a range of 90% to 115% invested in typical market conditions.
There Business Review is currently no loan facility in place.
Business of the Company No more than 15% of gross assets are to be invested in The Company carries on business as an investment trust and other UK listed investment companies including was approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment investment trusts.
trust in accordance with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax As reported in the Chairmans Statement, the Board has Act 2010 Section 1158 for the year ended 31st October 2010. recently reviewed the Managers existing investment approach.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has subsequently Following this review there is now a limit on the amount by conducted its affairs so as to continue to qualify as an which aggregate sector and stock positions in the portfolio can investment trust.
The Company will continue each year to seek deviate from the benchmark index.
The Board believes that approval under Section 1158. these additional limits are a sensible risk mitigation approach, Approval for the year ended 31st October 2010 is subject to which will continue to allow the Investment Management team review should there be any subsequent enquiry under to operate with a high degree of conviction.
Compliance with the Boards investment restrictions and The Company is an investment company within the meaning of guidelines is monitored continuously by the Manager and is Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006. reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
A review of the Companys activities and prospects is given in These limits and restrictions may be varied by the Board at any the Chairmans Statement on pages 3 to 5, and in the time at its discretion.
Investment Managers Report on pages 6 to 9.
Performance Objective In the year ended 31st October 2011, the Company produced The Companys objective is to provide capital growth from a total return to shareholders of 16.7% and a total return on investment in Russian securities.
This compares with the return on the Companys benchmark of 2.9%.
As at 31st October 2011, the Investment Policies and Risk Management value of the Companys investment portfolio was In order to achieve the investment objective and manage risk, 312.2 million.
The Investment Managers Report on pages 6 the Company invests in a diversified portfolio of investments in to 9 includes a review of developments during the year.
quoted Russian securities and Russian pre-IPO stocks or other companies which derive the majority of their revenue or gains Total Return and Revenue from operating in Russia.
The number of investments in the Gross loss for the year totalled 56,297,000 2010: portfolio will normally range between 30 and 60.
The 125,598,000 return and net loss after deducting investment portfolio is managed by two Russian fund management fee, administrative expenses, finance costs and managers, one based in Moscow and one based in London, taxation, amounted to 64,197,000 2010: 119,182,000 both of whom are fully supported by a global emerging return.
Net revenue loss after taxation for the year markets team, including sector specialists.
No dividend discusses in depth the economy and political developments of has been proposed 2010: nil.
Russia at Board meetings and considers the possible Key Performance Indicators KPIs implications for the investment portfolio.
The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to monitor and Investment Limits and Restrictions assess the performance of the Company.
The principal KPIs are: The Board seeks to manage the Companys risk by imposing Performance against the benchmark various investment limits and restrictions.
The principle objective is to achieve capital growth.
No more than 10% of the Companys gross assets are to be However, the Board also monitors performance against a invested in pre-IPO stocks.
The Company will not normally invest in unlisted securities, apart from pre-IPO stocks.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 19 Directors Report continued Share price discount premium to net asset value NAV per Performance Relative to Benchmark Index share Figures have been rebased to 100 at 20th December 2002 first day of trading The Board has adopted a share repurchase policy which 130 seeks to address imbalances in the supply of and demand for the Companys shares in the market and thereby reduce 120 the volatility and absolute level of the discount to NAV per 110 share at which the Companys shares trade.
In the year ended 31st October 2011, the shares traded at a discount of 100 between 5.0% and 9.8%.
90 Discount Premium Performance 80 5 70 0 5 Source: Morningstar MSCI CSFB.
JPMorgan Russian Securities share price.
JPMorgan Russian Securities net asset value per share.
10 The benchmark is represented by the grey horizontal line.
JPMorgan Russian Securities share price discount premium to NAV.
800 Total expense ratio TER The TER represents the management fee and all other 600 operating expenses excluding interest, expressed as a percentage of the average of the month end net assets 400 during the year.
The Board reviews each year 200 an analysis which shows a comparison of the Companys TER and its main expenses with those of its peers.
0 Share Capital During the year, the Company made market purchases of Source: Morningstar MSCI CSFB.
160,000 of its own shares, nominal value 1,600, for JPMorgan Russian Securities share price.
cancellation, representing 0.3% of the shares outstanding at JPMorgan Russian Securities net asset value per share.
the beginning of the year.
The consideration paid for these Benchmark.
The reason for the purchases was to seek to reduce the volatility and absolute level of the Performance against the Companys peers share price discount to net asset value per share.
The Company The Board also monitors the performance relative to a has not made any further market purchases since the end of broad range of competitor funds.
Performance attribution A resolution to renew the authority to repurchase shares at a The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to discount to NAV is due to be put to shareholders at the assess how the Company achieved its performance relative forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
to its benchmark index, i. e. to understand the impact on the Companys relative performance of the various The Company did not issue any new shares during the year.
components such as asset allocation and stock selection.
A breach of the Companies Act 2006 could With the assistance of the Manager the Board has drawn up a result in the Company and or the Directors being fined or risk matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
the subject of criminal proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA These key risks fall broadly under the following categories: Listing Rules could result in the Companys shares being suspended from listing which in turn would breach Investment and Strategy: An inappropriate investment Section 1158.
The Board relies on the services of its strategy, for example asset allocation or the level of Company Secretary, JPMAM, and its professional advisers gearing, may lead to underperformance against the to ensure compliance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys benchmark index and peer companies, UKLA Listing Rules.
resulting in the Companys shares trading on a wider discount to NAV.
The Board manages these risks by Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: Details diversification of investments through its investment of the Companys compliance with corporate governance restrictions and guidelines, which are monitored and best practice, including information on relations with reported on by the Manager.
JPMAM provides the Directors shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance with timely and accurate management information, report on pages 24 to 27. including performance data and attribution analyses, Operational: Disruption to, or failure of, JPMAMs revenue estimates, liquidity reports and shareholder accounting, dealing or payments systems or the custodians analyses.
The Board monitors the implementation and records could prevent accurate reporting and monitoring of results of the investment process with the investment the Companys financial position.
Details of how the Board managers, who attend all Board meetings, and reviews data monitors the services provided by JPMAM and its which show statistical measures of the Companys risk associates and the key elements designed to provide profile.
The investment managers employ the Companys effective internal control are included within the Internal gearing tactically, within a strategic range set by the Board.
Control section of the Corporate Governance report on However, currently the Company has no loan facility in pages 24 and 27. place.
Financial: The financial risks faced by the Company include Market: Market risk arises from uncertainty about the market price risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, future prices of the Companys investments.
It represents liquidity risk and credit risk.
Further details are disclosed in the potential loss that the Company might suffer through note 19 on pages 45 to 50. holding investments in the face of negative market movements.
The Board considers asset allocation, stock Political and Economic: Changes in financial or tax selection and levels of gearing on a regular basis and has legislation, including in the European Union, may adversely set investment restrictions and guidelines, which are affect the Company.
The Manager makes recommendations monitored and reported on by JPMAM.
The Board monitors to the Board on accounting, dividend and tax policies and the implementation and results of the investment process the Board seeks external advice where appropriate.
addition, the Company is subject to administrative risks, such as the imposition of restrictions on the free movement Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify of capital.
as an investment trust, the Company must comply with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Future Developments Section 1158.
Details of the Companys approval are The future development of the Company is much dependent given under Business of the Company above.
Were the upon the success of the Companys investment strategy in the Company to breach Section 1158, it might lose investment light of economic and equity market developments.
The trust status and, as a consequence, capital gains within the investment managers discuss the outlook in their report on Companys investment portfolio would be subject to Capital pages 6 to 9.
The Section 1158 qualification criteria are continually monitored by JPMAM and the results reported Management of the Company to the Board each month.
The Company must also comply JPMAM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase & Co with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and, as its which, through other subsidiaries, also provides banking, shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, the UKLA dealing and custodian services to the Company.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 21 Directors Report continued The Board has evaluated the performance of the Manager and Payment Policy confirms that it is satisfied that the continuing appointment of It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms for all the Manager is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
In business and therefore there are no standard payment terms.
arriving at this view, the Board considered the investment In general the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on strategy and process of the Manager, noting performance which business will take place and it is the Companys policy to relative to the benchmark over the long term, and the other abide by those terms.
As at 31st October 2011, the Company services that the Company receives from JPMAM.
had no outstanding trade creditors 2010: none.
Management Agreement Directors JPMAM is employed under a contract which can be terminated The Directors of the Company who held office at the end of the on 90 days notice, without penalty.
The Manager may also year, together with their beneficial interests in the Companys terminate the contract on 90 days notice if in its sole opinion ordinary share capital, were: there has been a loss of confidence between the Manager and the Company so as to make the relationship unworkable.
If the 31st October 1st November Company wishes to terminate the contract on less than Directors 2011 2010 90 days notice, the balance of the 90 days remuneration is payable by way of compensation.
Pamela Idelson Smith 10,000 10,000 Alexander Easton Up to and including 31st October 2011, the Manager has been Patrick Gifford 21,641 21,641 remunerated at a rate of 1.5% per annum of the Companys Robert Jeens net assets, payable monthly in arrears.
Following a change in George Nianias the Management Agreement, the rate has been reduced to James Nicholson 1.2% per annum, with effect from 1st November 2011.
Lysander Tennant 5,700 5,700 Investments on which JPMAM earns a separate management fee are excluded from the Companys net assets for the Since the end of the Companys year, Messrs. Easton and Jeens purpose of calculating the management fee.
No performance have acquired a beneficial interest in 5,000 Ordinary shares fee is payable.
Furthermore, having joined the Board after the Companys year end, on 17th November 2011, Mrs Gill Nott has Going Concern acquired a beneficial interest in 3,000 Ordinary shares.
In assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going As reported in the Chairmans Statement, Messrs Gifford and concern the Directors have considered the Companys Nicholson will be standing down from the Board at the investment objective see page 19, risk management policies forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Furthermore the see pages 45 to 50, capital management see note 20, the Chairman, Mrs Idelson Smith, will be retiring some time after nature of the portfolio and expenditure projections, and the Annual General Meeting.
The Board has noted the new UK believe that the Company has adequate resources, an Corporate Governance Code and the requirement for FTSE 350 appropriate financial structure and suitable management companies to put forward all continuing Directors for annual arrangements in place to continue in operational existence for re-election, accordingly Mrs Idelson Smith and Messrs. Easton, the foreseeable future.
Nianias and Tennant, will be retiring at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for The Directors have also considered the most likely outcome of re-election.
Having been appointed during the year, Mr Jeens the continuation vote to be held on 27th January 2012 and have and Mrs Nott will be standing for initial election.
consulted with a significant proportion of the Companys investors in assessing the potential outcome of the vote.
The Director Indemnification and Insurance Directors have recommended that all shareholders vote in favour of the continuation vote and, based on consultation with As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, the shareholders, the Directors have no reason to believe that the Directors have the benefit of a deed of indemnity which is a proposed resolution will not be passed.
qualifying third party indemnity, as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
The deeds of indemnity were For these reasons, the Directors believe that it is appropriate to executed on 21st January 2011 and are currently in force.
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 An insurance policy is maintained by the Company which Independent Auditor indemnifies the Directors of the Company against certain Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
There is no in office as auditor to the Company, and resolutions proposing cover against fraudulent or dishonest actions.
their reappointment and authorising the Directors to determine their remuneration for the ensuing year will be put Disclosure of information to Auditors to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the Company at the time when this report was approved: Annual General Meeting a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant NOTE: THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR audit information as defined in the Companies Act of IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action which the Companys auditors are unaware, and you should take, you should seek your own personal financial advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he she financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself Markets Act 2000. herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that Resolutions relating to the following items of special business information.
will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted i Authority to issue relevant securities and disapply pre-emption in accordance with the provision of Section 418 2 of the rights resolutions 10 & 11 Companies Act 2006.
The Directors will seek renewal of the authority to issue up to 2,756,215 new shares or shares held in Treasury other than by a Section 992 Companies Act 2006 pro rata issue to existing shareholders up to an aggregate nominal amount of 27,562, such amount being equivalent to The following disclosures are made in accordance with approximately 5% of the current issued share capital.
The full Section 992 Companies Act 2006. text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of Meeting on Capital Structure pages 52 to 54.
The Companys capital structure is summarised on the inside It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new front cover of this report.
shares to investors purchasing shares through the JPMAM Voting Rights in the Companys shares savings products and also to other investors when the Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the Directors consider that it is in the best interest of shareholders date of this report are given in note 16 to the Notice of Annual to do so.
Any such issues would only be made at prices greater General Meeting on page 52. than the NAV, thereby increasing the assets underlying each Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights share.
At the date of this report the following had declared a notifiable ii Authority to repurchase the Companys shares for cancellation interest in the Companys voting rights: resolution 12 Number of The authority to repurchase up to 14.99% of the Companys Shareholders voting rights % issued share capital, granted by shareholders at the 2011 Annual General Meeting, will expire on 17th March 2012 unless City of London Investment renewed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Management Company Limited 13,477,838 24.4 Directors consider that the renewal of the authority is in the Lazard Asset Management LLC 7,725,133 14.0 interests of shareholders as a whole, as the repurchase of 1 JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited 5,682,884 10.3 shares at a discount to the underlying NAV enhances the NAV Advance Developing Markets Fund Limited 2,929,480 5.3 of the remaining shares.
Sarasin & Partners 1,985,201 3.6 The full text of the resolution is set out in the Notice of Annual Legal and General Investment Management 1,955,551 3.5 General Meeting on pages 52 to 54.
Repurchases will be made at the discretion of the Board and will only be made in the 1 Non-beneficial.
market at prices below the prevailing NAV per share as and when market conditions are appropriate.
