JPM Mercantile pp18 29 JPM Mercantile pp18 29 31 03 2011 07:55 Page 18 18 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Report The Directors present their report and audited financial - Investment growth is emphasised, with long-term statements for the year ended 31st January 2011. dividend growth at least in line with inflation.
- Gearing may be used when appropriate in order to Business Review increase potential returns to shareholders.
Such Business of the Company gearing will be long-term in nature and will operate The Company carries on business as an investment within a range of 90% to 120% invested.
trust and was approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust in accordance with - The Company does not invest more than 15% of its Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 gross assets in other UK listed investment formerly Section 842 of the Income and Corporation companies including investment trusts.
Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended 31st January - The Company will not invest more than 10% of 2010.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company assets in companies that themselves may invest has subsequently conducted its affairs so that more than 15% of gross assets in UK listed it should continue to qualify.
The Company will investment companies.
continue to seek approval under Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 each year.
Performance Approval in previous years is subject to review In the year to 31st January 2011, the Company should there be any subsequent enquiry under produced a total return to shareholders of 33.8% Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
and a total return on net assets of 27.4%.
This compares with the return on the Companys The Company is an investment company within the benchmark of 26.6%.
At 31st January 2011, the meaning of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006. value of the Companys investment portfolio was The Company is not a close company for taxation 1,348 million.
The Investment Managers Report purposes.
on pages 5 to 9 includes a review of developments A review of the Companys activities and prospects is during the year as well as information on investment given in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 4, activity within the Companys portfolio.
and in the Investment Managers Report on pages5 Total Return, Revenue and Dividends to 9.
Gross total return for the year amounted to Investment Objective 281.5 million 2010: 394.2 million loss and The Companys objective is to achieve long term net total return after deducting interest, capital growth from a portfolio of UK medium and management expenses and taxation amounted to smaller companies.
Distributable income for the year amounted to 26.8 million 2010: Investment Policies and Risk Management 23.7 million.
The Directors have declared quarterly In order to achieve its objective, the Company invests interim dividends totalling 36.0p per ordinary share in a diversified portfolio and employs a Manager with 2010: 36.0p for the year which totalled 35.7 million a strong focus on research that enables it to identify 2010: 36.8 million.
The year end revenue reserve what it believes to be the most attractive stocks in after allowing for these dividends will amount to the market.
The Board has sought to manage the Companys risk Key Performance Indicators KPIs by imposing various investment limits and The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to restrictions.
These limits and restrictions may be monitor and assess the performance of the Company.
varied at any time by the Board at its discretion.
The principal KPIs are: Investment Limits and Restrictions Performance against the benchmark index - The Company invests in medium and smaller This is the most important KPI by which companies which are listed mainly on the London performance is judged.
- At time of purchase the maximum exposure to any individual stock is 8% of gross assets.
JPM Mercantile pp18 29 JPM Mercantile pp18 29 31 03 2011 07:55 Page 19 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 19 supply and demand of the Companys shares Performance relative to Benchmark Index within the market and thereby reduce the Figures have been rebased to 100 at 31st January 2001 volatility and absolute level of the discount to 130 NAV at which the Companys shares trade.
The Mercantile share price total return.
20 The benchmark is represented by the grey horizontal line.
Ten Year Performance Figures have been rebased to 100 at 31st January 2001 Total expense ratio TER 300 The TER represents management fees and all other operating expenses excluding interest, 250 expressed as a percentage of the average of the 200 month end net assets during the year.
The method of calculating the TER has changed this year and 150 the prior year figure restated.
In previous years 100 the TER represented management fees and all other operating expenses excluding interest 50 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 calculated as above, expressed as a percentage of the average of the opening and closing net assets.
The Mercantile net asset value total return.
The new methodology more accurately reflects the The Mercantile share price total return.
way the management fee is calculated, which is Benchmark.
Source: Morningstar, Russell Mellon CAPS.
based on the Companys month end market capitalisation.
The TER for the year ended Performance against the Companys peers 31st January 2011 is 0.49% and for the year ended The principal objective is to achieve capital 31st January 2010 is 0.54% as restated previously growth relative to the benchmark.
The Board reviews each year an analysis monitors the performance relative to a broad which shows a comparison of the Companys TER range of competitor funds.
and its main expenses with those of its peers.
Performance attribution Share Capital The purpose of performance attribution analysis During the year the Company repurchased a total of is to assess how the Company achieved its 2,912,249 ordinary shares for cancellation.
This performance relative to its benchmark index, amount represented 2.9% of the issued share capital i. e. to understand the impact on the Companys at the beginning of the year.
As the shares were relative performance of the various components repurchased at a discount to the underlying net asset such as asset allocation and stock selection.
value NAV they enhanced the NAV of the remaining Details of the attribution analysis for the year shares.
The Company has repurchased no further ended 31st January 2011 are given in the shares for cancellation since the year end.
Investment Managers Report on page 5.
A resolution to renew the authority to repurchase shares will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Share price discount to net asset value NAV Annual General Meeting.
The Board operates a share repurchase programme that seeks to address imbalances in The Company did not issue any shares during the year.
JPM Mercantile pp18 29 JPM Mercantile pp18 29 31 03 2011 07:55 Page 20 20 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Report continued Principal Risks Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has Details of the Companys compliance with drawn up a risk matrix, which identifies the key risks Corporate Governance best practice, including to the Company.
These key risks fall broadly under information on relations with shareholders, are the following categories: set out in the Corporate Governance report on pages 23 to 26.
Investment and Strategy: An inappropriate investment strategy, for example asset allocation Operational: Disruption to, or failure of, JPMAMs or the level of gearing, may lead to accounting, dealing or payments systems or the underperformance against the Companys custodians records could prevent accurate benchmark index and peer companies, resulting reporting and monitoring of the Companys in the Companys shares trading on a wider financial position.
Details of how the Board discount.
The Board manages these risks by monitors the services provided by JPMAM and diversification of investments through its its associates and the key elements designed to investment restrictions and guidelines which are provide effective internal control are included monitored and reported by the Manager.
JPMAM within the Internal Control section of the provides the Directors with timely and accurate Corporate Governance report on page 25. management information, including performance Financial: The financial risks faced by the data and attribution analyses, revenue estimates, Company include market price risk, interest rate liquidity reports and shareholder analyses.
The risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Bank Board monitors the implementation and results counterparties are subject to daily credit analysis of the investment process with the Investment by the Manager and regular consideration at Managers, who attend all Board meetings, and meetings of the Board.
In addition the Board reviews data which show statistical measures of receives regular reports on the Managers the Companys risk profile.
The Investment monitoring and mitigation of credit risks on share Managers employ the Companys gearing transactions carried out by the Company.
Further tactically, within a strategic range set by the details are disclosed in note 23 on pages 46 to 50.
Future Developments Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to Clearly, the future development of the Company is qualify as an investment trust, the Company must dependent upon the success of the Companys comply with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax investment strategy in the light of economic and Act 2010 Section 1158 formerly Section 842 equity market developments.
The Investment of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
Managers discuss the outlook in their report on Details of the Companys approval are given page 8. under Business of the Company above.
Were the Company to breach Section 1158, it might lose Management investment trust status and, as a consequence, The Manager and Secretary is JPMorgan Asset gains within the Companys portfolio could be Management UK Limited JPMAM.
JPMAM is subject to Capital Gains Tax.
The Section 1158 employed under a contract terminable on six months qualification criteria are continually monitored notice, without penalty.
If the Company wishes to by JPMAM and the results reported to the Board terminate the contract on shorter notice, the balance each month.
The Company must also comply with of remuneration is payable by way of compensation.
the provisions of the Companies Acts and, since its shares are listed on the London Stock JPMAM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules and Disclosure Chase Bank which, through other subsidiaries, also & Transparency Rules DTRs.
A breach of the provides banking, dealing and custodian services to Companies Acts could result in the Company the Company.
and or the Directors being fined or the subject of The Board has evaluated the performance of the criminal proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Listing Manager and confirms that it is satisfied that the Rules or DTRs could result in the Companys continuing appointment of the Manager on the terms shares being suspended from listing which in turn agreed is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
The Board relies on In arriving at this view, the Board considered the the services of its Company Secretary, JPMAM, to investment strategy and process of the Investment ensure compliance with The Companies Acts and Managers, noting performance against the The UKLA Listing Rules.
JPM Mercantile pp18 29 JPM Mercantile pp18 29 31 03 2011 07:55 Page 21 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 21 benchmark over the long term and the support No changes in the above holdings have been that the Company receives from JPMAM.
recorded at the date of this report.
As explained in the Chairmans statement, in Management Fee accordance with corporate governance best practice, The management fee is charged at the rate of 0.5% all Directors will retire at the Companys forthcoming of the value of the Companys market capitalisation Annual General Meeting, and, being eligible, will offer and is calculated and paid monthly in arrears.
If the themselves for re-election by shareholders.
Company invests in funds managed or advised by JPMAM, or any of its associated companies, they are The Nomination Committee, having considered their excluded from the calculation and therefore attract qualifications, performance and contribution to the no fee.
Board and its committees, confirms that each Director continues to be effective and demonstrates Going Concern commitment to the role and the Board recommends The Directors believe that having considered the to shareholders that they be re-elected.
Companys investment objective see page 18, risk management policies see page 46, capital Director Indemnification and Insurance management policies and procedures see page 51, As permitted by the Companys Articles of nature of the portfolio and expenditure projections, Association, the Directors have the benefit of that the Company has adequate resources, an an indemnity which is a qualifying third party appropriate financial structure and suitable indemnity, as defined by Section 234 of the management arrangements in place to continue in Companies Act 2006.
The indemnities were executed operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For on 19th May 2010 and are currently in force.
these reasons, they consider that there is reasonable An insurance policy is maintained by the Company evidence to continue to adopt the going concern which indemnifies the Directors of the Company basis in preparing the accounts.
against certain liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
There is no cover against fraudulent or Payment Policy dishonest actions.
It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms for all business and therefore there are no standard Disclosure of Information to Auditors payment terms.
In general, the Company agrees with In the case of each of the persons who are Directors its suppliers the terms on which business will take of the Company at the time when this report was place and it is the Companys policy to abide by approved: these terms.
As at 31st January 2011, the Company a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is had no outstanding trade creditors.
no relevant audit information as defined in the Directors Companies Act of which the Companys Auditors The Directors of the Company at the end of the year, are unaware: and together with their beneficial interests in the b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that Companys ordinary share capital, were: he ought to have taken as a Director in order to 1st February make himself aware of any relevant audit 2010 information as defined and to establish that the 31st January or at date of Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
2011 appointment The above confirmation is given and should be Hamish Leslie Melville 30,000 30,000 interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Sir Richard Beckett 4,100 4,000 Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Earl of Halifax 2,000 2,000 Independent Auditors  LLP have expressed their Sandy Nairn 5,000 5,000 willingness to continue in office as Auditors to the Charles Peel 33,100 33,100 Company and resolutions proposing their Ian Russell 5,000 5,000 re-appointment and authorising the Directors to determine their remuneration for the ensuing year will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
JPM Mercantile pp18 29 JPM Mercantile pp18 29 31 03 2011 07:55 Page 22 22 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Report continued Annual General Meeting Recommendation Note: This section is important and requires your The Board considers resolutions 10-12 are likely to immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt as to the promote the success of the Company and are in the action you should take you should seek your own best interests of the Company and its shareholders as personal financial advice from your stock broker, a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that bank manager, solicitor, or other financial advisor you vote in favour of the resolutions as they intend authorised under the Financial Services and Markets to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings Act 2000. which amount in aggregate to 79,200 shares representing approximately 0.08% of the existing Resolutions relating to the following item of special issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
The business will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual full text of the resolutions are set out in the Notice General Meeting: of Meeting on pages 52 to 53.
Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory Corporate Governance pre-emption rights resolutions 10 and 11 Compliance The Directors will seek renewal of the authority at the The Company is committed to high standards of AGM to issue up to 4,951,784 Ordinary shares for cash corporate governance.
This statement, together up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,237,946 with the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on such amount being equivalent to 5% of the present page 28, indicates how the Company has applied the issued ordinary share capital as at the last practicable principles of good governance of the Financial date before the publication of this document.
The full Reporting Council Combined Code 2008 the text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of Combined Code and the AICs Code of Corporate Meeting on page 52.
This authority will expire at the Governance, the AIC Code, which complements the conclusion of the AGM of the Company in 2012 unless Combined Code and provides a framework of best renewed at a prior general meeting.
It is advantageous for the Company to be able to The Board is responsible for ensuring the issue new shares to participants purchasing shares appropriate level of Corporate Governance and through the JPMorgan savings products and also to considers that the Company has complied with the other investors when the Directors consider that it best practice provisions of the Combined Code and is in the best interests of shareholders to do so.
the AIC Code throughout the year under review, As such issues are only made at prices greater than other than in respect of the provision relating to the the net asset value the NAV, they increase the NAV appointment of a senior independent director.
per share and spread the Companys administrative expenses, other than the management fee which is Role of the Board charged on the value of the Companys market A management agreement between the Company capitalisation, over a greater number of shares.
and JPMAM sets out the matters over which the The issue proceeds are available for investment Manager has authority.
This includes management in line with the Companys investment policies.
of the Companys assets and the provision of The Company currently does not hold any shares accounting, company secretarial, administration, in the capital of the Company in Treasury.
Authority to repurchase the Companys shares for All other matters are reserved for the approval of the cancellation resolution 12 Board.
A formal schedule of matters reserved to the At the Annual General Meeting held in May 2010, Board for decision has been approved.
This includes shareholders gave authority to the Company to enable determination and monitoring of the Companys it to purchase up to 14.99% of its then issued share investment objectives and policy and its future capital.
This authority will expire on 18th November strategic direction, gearing policy, management of 2011 unless renewed by shareholders.
The Directors the capital structure, appointment and removal of consider that the renewing of the authority is in the third party service providers, review of key interests of shareholders as a whole, as the repurchase investment and financial data and the Companys of shares at a discount to the underlying net asset corporate governance and risk control arrangements.
value NAV enhances the NAV of the remaining The Board has procedures in place to deal with shares.
potential conflicts of interest and confirms that the JPM Mercantile pp18 29 JPM Mercantile pp18 29 31 03 2011 07:55 Page 23 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 23 procedures have operated effectively during the year The Board recommends the re-election of the Directors under review.
who each seek re-election at this years AGM.
The Board meets at least quarterly during the year Meetings and Committees and additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
The Board delegates certain responsibilities and Full and timely information is provided to the Board functions to committees.
Details of membership of to enable it to function effectively and to allow committees are shown with the Directors profiles Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
Directors who are not members of There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take Committees may attend at the invitation of the independent professional advice if necessary and at Chairman.
This is in addition to the The table below details the number of Board, Audit access that every Director has to the advice and Committee and Nomination Committee meetings services of the Company Secretary, JPMAM, which is attended by each Director.
During the year there responsible to the Board for ensuring that applicable were five Board meetings, two Audit Committee rules and regulations are complied with and that meetings and one Nomination Committee meeting.
Audit Nomination Board Committee Committee Board Composition Meetings Meetings Meetings The Board consists of six non-executive Directors, all Director Attended Attended Attended of whom are regarded by the Board as independent, including the Chairman.
The Directors have a breadth Hamish Leslie Melville 5 n a 1 of investment, business and financial skills and Sir Richard Beckett 52 1 experience relevant to the Companys business and The Right Hon.
brief biographical details of each Director are set out The Earl of Halifax52 1 on page 17.
Sandy Nairn 411 A review of Board composition and balance is Charles Peel 42 1 included as part of the annual performance Ian Russell 52 1 evaluation of the Board.
The Board has considered Attended by invitation whether a senior independent director should be Training and Appraisal appointed and has concluded that, as the Board On appointment, the Manager and Company consists entirely of non-executive directors, this is Secretary provide all Directors with induction training.
Thereafter regular briefings are provided on changes Tenure in regulatory requirements that affect the Company The Chairman, having been a Director of the Company and the Directors.
Directors are encouraged to attend for more than 9 years, has retained his independence industry and other seminars covering issues and by submitting to annual re-election.
developments relevant to investment trusts.
Directors are initially appointed until the following The Board has undertaken an evaluation of the Annual General Meeting when, under the Companys Manager, its own performance and that of its Articles of Association, it is required that they be committees and individual Directors.
The evaluation elected by shareholders.
Thereafter, subject to the of individual Directors is led by the Chairman and performance evaluation carried out each year, the another Director leads the evaluation of the Board will agree whether it is appropriate for each Chairmans performance.
The Board as a whole Director to seek re-election.
In accordance with the evaluates the Manager, its own performance and that new UK Corporate Governance Code, from 2011 of its committees.
onwards, Directors continuing in office will seek annual re-election.
Board Committees Nomination Committee The terms and conditions of Directors appointments The Nomination Committee, chaired by Hamish Leslie are set out in formal letters of appointment, copies Melville, consists of all the Directors and meets at of which are available for inspection on request at least annually to ensure that the Board has an the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
appropriate balance of skills to carry out its fiduciary JPM Mercantile pp18 29 JPM Mercantile pp18 29 31 03 2011 07:55 Page 24 24 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Report continued duties and to select and propose suitable candidates Representatives of the Companys auditors attend the for appointment when necessary.
Committee meeting at which the draft annual report and accounts are considered.
The Directors The Committee undertakes an annual performance statement on the Companys system of internal evaluation, as described above, to ensure that all control is set out on page 25. members of the Board have devoted sufficient time and contributed adequately to the work of the Board.
Both the Nomination Committee and the Audit The Committee also reviews Directors fees and Committee have written terms of reference which makes recommendations to the Board as and when define clearly their respective responsibilities, copies appropriate.
of which are available for inspection on the Companys website, on request at the Companys On an annual basis each Director submits a list registered office and at the Companys AGM.
of potential conflicts of interest for approval at the Nomination Committee meeting.
These are Relations with Shareholders considered carefully, taking into account the The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile circumstances surrounding them, and, if considered of the Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a appropriate, are approved for a period of one year.
full understanding of the Companys activities and performance and reports formally to shareholders four Audit Committee times a year by way of the Annual Report and The Audit Committee, chaired by Ian Russell, consists Accounts, Half Year Financial Report and two Interim of all the Directors other than the Chairman and Management Statements.
This is supplemented by the meets at least twice each year.
The members of the daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, Committee consider that they have the requisite of the net asset value of the Companys shares.
skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities of the Committee.
All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged, to attend the Companys Annual General The Committee reviews the actions and judgements Meeting at which the Directors and representatives of the Manager in relation to the half year and of the Manager are available in person to meet with annual accounts and the Companys compliance with shareholders and answer questions.
In addition, a the Combined Code.
It reviews the terms of the presentation is given by the Investment Managers management agreement and examines the who review the Companys performance.
During the effectiveness of the Companys internal control year the Companys brokers and the Investment systems, receives information from the Managers Managers hold regular discussions with larger Compliance department and reviews the scope and shareholders.
The Directors are made fully aware results of the external audit, its cost effectiveness, of their views.
The Chairman and Directors make the balance of audit and non-audit services, and the themselves available as and when required to independence and objectivity of the external address shareholder queries.
The Directors may be auditors.
In the Directors opinion, the Auditors are contacted through the Company Secretary whose considered independent.
details are shown on page 57.
The Audit Committee also has a primary responsibility The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is for making recommendations to the Board on the published in time to give shareholders at least re-appointment and removal of external auditors.
20 working days notice of the Annual General Representatives of the Companys Auditors attend the Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise questions in Audit Committee meeting at which the draft Annual advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit Report & Accounts are considered.
Having reviewed questions via the Companys website or write to the the performance of the external auditors, the Company Secretary at the address shown on page 57.
Committee considered it appropriate to recommend their reappointment.
The Board supported this Details of the proxy voting position on each recommendation which will be put to shareholders at resolution will be published on the Companys the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
website shortly after the Annual General Meeting.
In order to safeguard the Auditors objectivity and Section 992 Companies Act 2006 independence, any significant non-audit services are The following disclosures are made in accordance carried out through a partner other than the audit with Section 992 Companies Act 2006. engagement partner where appropriate.
JPM Mercantile pp18 29 JPM Mercantile pp18 29 31 03 2011 07:55 Page 25 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 25 Capital Structure Internal Control The Companys capital structure is summarised on The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least the inside front cover of this report.
annually, to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control and to report Voting Rights in the Companys shares to shareholders that they have done so.
This As at 31st March 2011 being the latest business day encompasses a review of all controls, which the prior to the publication of this Notice, the Company's Board has identified as including business, financial, issued share capital consists of 99,035,719 Ordinary operational, compliance and risk management.
shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore the total The Directors are responsible for the Companys system voting rights of the Company are 99,035,719. of internal control which is designed to safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper accounting records Environmental Matters, Social and Community Issues and ensure that financial information used within the Information about environmental matters, and social business, or published, is reliable.
However, such a and community issues is set out on page 26.
The system can only be designed to manage rather than Company has no employees.
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and therefore can only provide reasonable, Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material At the date of this report, the following had declared mis-statement or loss.
a notifiable interest in the Companys voting rights: Since investment management, custody of assets and Number of all administrative services are provided to the Shareholders voting rights % Company by JPMAM and its associates, the AXA Investment Companys system of internal control mainly consists Managers UK Ltd 11,758,440 11.87 of monitoring the services provided by JPMAM and Brewin Dolphin Ltd 7,448,588 7.52 its associates, including the operating controls 1 Chase Nominees Ltd 7,245,306 7.32 established by them, to ensure they meet the Companys business objectives.
There is an ongoing Rathbone Investment process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Management Ltd 6,719,966 6.79 significant risks faced by the Company see Principal Rensburg Sheppards Risks on page 20.
This process has been in place for Investment Management Ltd 4,523,961 4.57 the year under review and up to the date of approval JPMorgan Asset of the Annual Report & Accounts and it accords with Management UK Ltd 4,218,921 4.26 the Turnbull guidance.
The Company does not have Quilter 4,146,509 4.19 an internal audit function of its own, but relies on the Legal & General Group plc 3,668,138 3.70 internal audit department of JPMAM.
This arrangement is kept under annual review.
The key 1 Held on behalf of JPMAM Share Plan and ISA participants.
elements designed to provide effective internal The rules concerning the appointment and control are as follows: replacement of Directors, amendment of the Articles Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive of Association and powers to issue or buy back the review by the Board of key investment and financial Companys shares are contained in the Articles of data, including management accounts, revenue Association of the Company and the Companies Acts.
projections, analysis of transactions and performance There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of comparisons.
securities in the Company: no special rights with Management Agreement Appointment of a manager regard to control attached to securities: no and custodian regulated by the Financial Services agreements between holders of securities regarding Authority FSA, whose responsibilities are clearly their transfer known to the Company: no agreements defined in a written agreement.
which the Company is party to that affect its control following a takeover bid: and no agreements Management Systems The Managers system of between the Company and its directors concerning internal control includes organisational agreements compensation for loss of office.
which clearly define the lines of responsibility, JPM Mercantile pp18 29 JPM Mercantile pp18 29 31 03 2011 07:55 Page 26 26 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Report continued Proxy Voting delegated authority, control procedures and systems.
JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted These are monitored by JPMAMs Compliance to it as it would manage any other asset.
It is the policy of department which regularly monitors compliance JPMAM to vote in a prudent and diligent manner, based with FSA rules.
exclusively on our reasonable judgement of what will best Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of serve the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is the Companys investment strategy and exposure practicable, we will vote at all of the meetings called by limits by the Board.
companies in which we are invested.
The Board, either directly or through the Audit Stewardship Engagement Committee, keeps under review the effectiveness of JPMAM recognises its wider stewardship responsibilities to its the Companys system of internal control by clients as a major asset owner.
To this end, we support the monitoring the operation of the key operating introduction of the FRC Stewardship Code, which sets out the controls of the Manager and its associates as follows: responsibilities of institutional shareholders in respect of reviews the terms of the management agreement investee companies.
Under the Code, managers should: and receives regular reports from JPMAMs Compliance department: publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge their stewardship responsibilities to their clients: reviews reports on the internal controls and the disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: operations of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is itself independently reviewed: and monitor their investee companies: the Directors review on a regular basis an establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: independent report on the internal controls and be willing to act collectively with other investors where the operations of JPMAM.
appropriate: By the means of the procedures set out above, the have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness voting record: and of the Companys system of internal control for the year ended 31st January 2011, and to the date of report to clients.
approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
JPMAM endorses the Stewardship Code for its UK investments During the course of its review of the system of and supports the principles as best practice elsewhere.
internal control, the Board has not identified nor We believe that regular contact with the companies in which been advised of any failings or weaknesses which we invest is central to our investment process and we also it has determined to be significant.
recognise the importance of being an active owner on behalf of our clients.
Corporate Governance and Voting Policy The Company delegates responsibility for voting to Social & Environmental JPMAM.
JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially responsible manner.
Although our priority at all times is the The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy best economic interests of our clients, we recognise that, statements on corporate governance, voting policy increasingly, non-financial issues such as social and and social and environmental issues, which has been environmental factors have the potential to impact the share reviewed and noted by the Board.
price, as well as the reputation of companies.
Specialists within JPMAMs environmental, social and governance ESG Corporate Governance team are tasked with assessing how companies deal with and JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to our report on social and environmental risks and issues specific to investment process.
As part of our commitment to delivering their industry.
superior investment performance to our clients, we expect and encourage the companies in which we invest to JPMAM is also a signatory to the United Nations Principles of demonstrate the highest standards of corporate governance Responsible Investment, which commits participants to six and best business practice.
We examine the share structure principles, with the aim of incorporating ESG criteria into their and voting structure of the companies in which we invest, processes when making stock selection decisions and as well as the board balance, oversight functions and promoting ESG disclosure.
Our detailed approach to how we remuneration policy.
These analyses then form the basis implement the principles is available on request.
JPMAM is of our proxy voting and engagement activity.
JPM Mercantile pp18 29 JPM Mercantile pp18 29 31 03 2011 07:55 Page 27 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 27 also a signatory to Carbon Disclosure Project.
JPMorgan Chase is a signatory to the Equator Principles on managing social and environmental risk in project finance.
JPMAMs Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Guidelines are available on request from the Company Secretary or can be downloaded from JPMAMs website: http: www.
co. uk Institutional  CorporateGovernance, which also sets out its approach to the seven principles of the FRC Stewardship Code, its policy relating to conflicts of interest and its detailed voting record.
By order of the Board Juliet Dearlove, for and on behalf of JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, Secretary 31st March 2011 Copies of the Combined Code and the AIC Code may be found on the respective organisations' websites: www.
