hOW WILL WE WhERE IS TO GROW & AChIEVE ThIS?
By being the first choice In order to deliver consistently, DIVERSIfy ThE communications integrator, delivering successfully, and become the BUSINESS OVER mission critical communications to preferred marketplace supplier large telecoms users.
weconcentrate on two areas of our ThE LONG-TERM.
business, operational and financial: Operational focus To adapt rapidly in a fast changing environment we focus on differentiating our product and service mix which enables us to maximise the benefits we offer our customers.
Managing the decline Maximising the opportunities Differentiation through in voice and legacy from our strategic product set communications integration service proposition Key features: Key features: Key features: Increase in speed of decline Continued notable contract wins Flexible cloud computing offer intraditional voice: and in our strategic product sets: and successfully launched: International and wholesale Increasing appetite for solutions Increasing demand for provision voicetraffic reductions and based on a suite of products and of services in a virtualised management of loss margin.
capabilities, including hosted environment: services such as Fixed Mobile Partnership with IBM to develop Convergence FMC and Managed the UK Smart Energy Cloud: Video Conferencing enabling our Strengthen our hosting capacity customers to save costs.
further by investing in incremental capital and operating expenditure: and Addition of more application services using technology partners.
Financial focus To keep the business on a sound footing and enable us to respond actively to uncertain market conditions.
Maintaining operational Driving cash-flow growth Supporting financial efficiencies transparency Key features: Key features: Key features: Challenging market, particularly Free cash flow positive for the Splitting our financial performance in the public sector and first time at 61 million: by product and channel: mid-market: Continued control around capital Given more clarity on our working Increasing potential to increase our expenditure: and capital movements: public sector market share: and Trading cash flow increased More transparency around the Forecasting improvements made by63%.
use of finance leases: and to improve visibility and Detailed analysis of free cash flow.
