HOW WILL WE WHAT IS OuR AIM?
By being the first choice communications integrator, delivering mission critical TO gROW & DIVERSIFy communications to large telecoms users.
THE BuSINESS OVER WHERE IS OuR FOCuS?
In order to deliver consistently, successfully, and become the preferred marketplace supplier we concentrate on two areas of our business, operational and financial: OPERATIONAL FOCuS To adapt rapidly in a fast changing environment we focus on differentiating our product and service mix which enables us to maximise the benefits we offer our customers.
Managing the decline Maximising the opportunities Differentiation through in voice and legacy from our strategic product set communications integration service proposition The Telecoms industry grew out of the We expect growth in strategic products We continue to review developments in traditional need to carry voice from point to more than offset the decline in voice the markets in which the Company operates to point.
This has been in decline for a and legacy products.
We continue to and to consider how the business can number of years as phone call volumes experience increased demand in bandwidth best position itself strategically.
Customer decline and although forecasting the and migration from legacy voice to voice appetite for integrated hosting solutions, precise year-on-year decline in absolute over IP.
However, there is competitive i. e. cloud solutions, is a growing trend and margins is difficult, we expect this to be in pressure in the market for pure data we believe this represents a significant excess of 10% in the future.
Traditional connectivity and we are seeing price erosion growth opportunity for Cable&Wireless voice and legacy products also generate on a number of contract re-signs.
Customers are demanding increasingly lower percentage margins.
to invest in our sales teams, reorganising that their supplier can offer a full end-toThe world began to move to data carried our enterprise business to better address end communications integration suite.
over an Internet Protocol IP based specific industry sectors, allowing us to Key features: network and we have sought to differentiate become more aligned with our customers Flexible cloud computing offer ourselves through our service and strategic with products that meet their requirements.
successfully launched: product propositions as customers make Key features: Increasing demand for provision of this shift from voice to IP and data.
Continued notable contract wins in our services in a virtualised environment Key features: strategic product sets: and Partnership with IBM to develop the UK Increase in speed of decline in Increasing appetite for solutions based Smart Energy Cloud: traditional voice: and on a suite of products and capabilities, Strengthen our hosting capacity further International and wholesale voice including hosted services such as by investing in incremental capital traffic reductions and management FixedMobile Convergence FMC and and operating expenditure: and of loss margin.
Managed Video Conferencing enabling Addition of more application services our customers to save costs.
