UK AND WESTERN EUROPE WE ARE ONE OF THE UKS LARGEST COMMERCIAL AND PERSONAL LINES INSURERS WITH A REPUTATION FOR TECHNICAL EXCELLENCE.
WE ARE THE SECOND LARGEST INSURER IN IRELAND, WHERE WE OUTPERFORM THE MARKET ON BOTH THE TOP AND BOTTOM LINE.
IN ITALY, WE HAVE A NICHE BUSINESS, FOCUSED MAINLY ON MOTOR KEY STRATEGIES UK Commercial We delivered a much improved underwriting UK Net written premiums of 1,723m were up by result of 60m led by Household, with Motor The UK remains our most competitive market 2% on last year, driven by strong growth in our breaking-even as expected following and our strategy of targeting profitable growth Specialty business, with Marine up by 9% and continued management action.
and withdrawing capacity in areas where we European Risk Managed up by 19%.
Growth cannot achieve our target returns is unchanged.
of 9% in Motor reflects the phasing of a large Italy three year contract and, excluding this The market remains challenging, however, the We are repositioning the business to contract, premiums reduced by 15%.
underwriting loss of 63m was disappointing.
maximise its contribution to the Group The result was driven by adverse prior year and make it more focused.
We plan to deliver The underwriting loss of 20m improved development in Motor and General Third improved underwriting profitability by focusing compared with last year and includes strong Party Liability caused by changes to and a on areas where we have a strategic advantage performances in Marine and Liability offset by wider adoption of the Milan Bodily Injury such as Home, Pet, Marine and Risk Managed.
In Commercial Motor, the Tables and large losses.
We continued to take In Motor, we will target fewer segments, while COR improved by 4.9 points to 104.8%, however, action to remediate the business, significantly in Commercial Property we will work to losses on a significant contract will continue to reducing volumes, cancelling contracts with convert our leading market share into sustained act as a drag on the result going forward.
underperforming agents and pushing through underwriting profitability.
Our distribution double digit rate increases.
will also become more targeted as we focus UK Personal on a smaller number of key intermediaries.
Our track record of strong top line growth Ireland continued in 2011, with premiums up by 10% Net written premiums grew by 16% to 353m Western Europe to 1,364m driven by the Tesco Pet deal and driven by the acquisition of 123. ie, which The remediation of Italy remains a priority Household partially offset by Motor, which generated premiums of 81m.
The underwriting and the management team continues to remains very challenging.
result was 24m and the COR 92.6% driven by take extensive action to achieve this.
a strong Personal lines result and despite In Pet, premiums more than doubled to significant flooding in November 2011.
In Ireland, we look to drive strong value 197m with Tesco Pet exceeding expectations from 123. ie and maintain our marketand generating around 130m of premiums.
The UK remains one of the Groups most Household premiums are up by 11% due competitive markets.
Price comparison sites 2011 OVERVIEW to strong retention and rate, the acquisition continue to expand beyond Motor, growing in UK of Oak Underwriting in April 2011, which Home and Pet.
Commercial lines also remains We delivered a good top line result, with net specialises in high net worth insurance, and tough, with a reduction in the volume of new written premiums up by 6% to 3.1bn, driven the development of a new product for building business coming onto the market.
by growth in both Commercial and Personal.
In MORE TH N Motor, we reduced capacity whilst increasing rates and Both Ireland and Italys economies had a tough The underwriting profit of 40m benefited continuing to focus on strong fraud controls 2011 and we expect the resultant spending from both management actions and improved at both the application and claims stages.
cuts to have a considerable impact in 2012. weather and compares to a loss of 95m in 2010, which was impacted by the winter freeze.
Our Affinity business continues to grow and CUSTOMER our reputation as a supportive and innovative We continue to put customers at the centre We remain committed to cost control partner has enabled us to build a healthy pipeline of everything we do.
In the UK, we now offer and have achieved our target expense of opportunities.
We recently announced a new our Personal customers a single point of contact ratio excluding commissions of around partnership with Home Retail Group which will for their policy and claims queries, to make their 14% a year ahead of schedule.
help drive further momentum in 2012. experience with us as easy as possible.
22 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 BUSINESS REVIEW With the action we are taking, Im confident that the UK and Western Europe will come to deliver greater levels of profitability.
Adrian Brown, Chief Executive, UK and Western Europe In UK Commercial we continue to develop UK net written premiums m UK HIGHLIGHTS our broker relationships, launching e-Promise NWP up 6% with growth across 3,087 as a direct result of SME broker feedback.
Personal and Commercial 2,925 2,711 2,688 Personal 2,632 Underwriting profit of 40m 10% growth PEOPLE Achieved expense ratio of c14% Commercial Our UK business was recently ranked 6th a year early 2% growth in the Sunday Times Best Big Companies Ranked 6th in Sunday Times to Work For and were one of only Best Big Companies to Work For 17 companies within Gallups database Won Insurance Times Claims Initiative of companies employing more than of the Year 1,000 people to achieve UK expense ratio % Repositioning the business to world-class engagement.
become more targeted and focused.
18 TECHNICAL EXCELLENCE 17 17 UK COMMERCIAL Our UK business continues to build on Net Written Premiums grew 15 its reputation for technical excellence and 14 at 2% to 1,723m in 2011, won the Insurance Times Claims Underwriting loss of 20m, good Initiative of the Year for our industry-leading performance in Marine and Liability Home Claims Customer Tracker, which offset by Motor and Property.
enables us to deliver a smoother service, improving the customer experience, UK PERSONAL UK combined operating ratio % and gives us greater control over our Net Written Premiums grew claims costs.
at 10% to 1,364m 102.2 Pet continues to grow strongly with 98.2 98.0 97.6 97.6 OUTLOOK Tesco delivering c130m NWP In the UK, we are encouraged by indications Underwriting profit of 60m that the Government is going to make led by Home.
regulatory changes which will improve what has become a dysfunctional Motor market.
ITALY More broadly, we will continue to re-position Underwriting loss of 63m the business to make it more focused and Taking the right action to remediate maximise its contribution to the Groups Ireland net written premium growth the business underwriting profit.
Expect losses to be significantly reduced in 2012 and to be close to break-even In Italy, we expect losses to be significantly in 2013. reduced in 2012 and the business to be close 16 % to break-even in 2013.
In Ireland, we expect Reported IRELAND to continue to outperform peers and NWP growth of 16% due mainly maintain our market-leading positions.
Ireland combined operating ratio to the acquisition of 123. ie Excellent COR of 92.6% despite With the action we are taking, Im confident the floods in November that the UK and Western Europe will come to deliver greater levels of profitability.
6% Expect to maintain 2010: 90.9% market-leading position.
