SCANDINAVIA WE ARE THE THIRD LARGEST INSURER IN DENMARK AND SWEDEN, WITH A GROWING PRESENCE IN NORWAY KEY STRATEGIES Invest in our people There was continued good growth Our Scandinavian business has been a key We already deliver excellent leadership momentum in Danish Bancassurance and driver of the Groups profitability in recent and technical training to our people and our distribution capacity was strengthened years.
Going forward, we expect to continue have market-leading people engagement.
in October 2011, when we launched our to deliver a strong underwriting result.
We We aim to improve this further through Household insurance offering with SEB, will look to protect our leadership positions our increased customer focus.
the second largest bank in Sweden.
in areas such as Motor, Personal Accident and Renewable Energy while improving 2011 OVERVIEW The underwriting result was up by 25% profitability in Denmark and Norway.
As In 2011, our Scandinavian businesses performed to 248m despite the adverse weather, well as this, we plan to fully capitalise on the strongly.
Net written premium grew by 6% driven mainly by another strong opportunities in Specialty and with global to 1.8bn 2% at constant exchange, the performance from Swedish Personal brokers that arise from being the only scale underwriting result was an excellent 264m Motor and Personal Accident, where player in the region with a global presence.
and the COR was 85.4% despite a cloudburst we have strong customer retention.
over Copenhagen in July, during which two Reflecting this, the strategic priorities set months rain fell in two hours, and storms MARKET CONDITIONS by the management team include across Scandinavia in November.
In Scandinavia, early indications were that there would be some economic recovery Increase growth in each of our Commercial lines during 2011 though, as with elsewhere in businesses and improve profitability Net written premiums are up by 6% Europe, the recovery faded in the latter We aim to grow profitably in our target 3% at constant exchange to 842m, part of the year.
The Scandinavian insurance core segments, to increase our business with particularly strong growth in Renewable market remains stable and attractive.
with key brokers and to strengthen our Energy, Marine and Norway.
Growth in position within focus areas such as Care, Norway is principally from Care, supported Against this backdrop, we continued to deliver Bancassurance and key target segments by a new agreement with the agent Vertikal, strong profitability and maintained good top in Commercial lines which extended our distribution network.
line momentum in our target growth areas.
Improve the customer experience The underwriting result was 16m.
Motor CUSTOMER We aim to define more clearly the sales, and Workers Compensation again performed In 2011, Scandinavia launched its service and claims promises for our well, though the Property business was Think!Customer strategy.
An important customers and to deliver them more impacted by adverse weather.
part of this is the Brilliant Service consistently every time.
We will focus programme, through which customer on retaining our existing customers Personal lines research and feedback from partners and improve our customer proposition Net written premiums grew by 5% to and front line staff has been used to to target new ones 982m up by 1% at constant exchange.
This has led to the development of Improve operational efficiency with Premium growth was driven by strong a customer dashboard and delivery the right systems and processes performances in Danish Motor and Swedish of actions to improve the customer We will continue to invest in upgrading Personal Accident, which was supported by experience.
We are already seeing the our sales, claims and policy and the launch of a new product during 2011. benefit in the business, with improvements administration systems to make it This was partly offset by Norway where our to customer satisfaction and retention.
easier for customers to deal with us main focus was on improving the profitability of the portfolio.
18 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 BUSINESS REVIEW Scandinavia has been a key driver of the Groups result in recent years and we expect to continue to deliver strong underwriting profitability.
Mike Holliday-Williams, Chief Executive, Scandinavia PEOPLE 2011 net written premiums % HIGHLIGHTS Staff engagement is important to the success Mike Holliday-Williams appointed of the business.
In 2011, we continued to as CEO, after a successful period invest in a wide range of technical and running UK Personal lines business vocational training for our staff and we have 1,824m Strategic priorities refreshed, giving had great involvement from them in events even greater focus on customers such as our health and climate weeks.
Total NWP growth of 6% to 1,824m We continue to complete the Gallup Personal lines growth of 5%, driven Engagement survey, where we again saw a by Household, Personal Accident significant improvement.
Our Think!Customer Personal 54 and Danish Motor strategy is about driving our people agenda, Commercial 46 Commercial lines NWP growth as we focus on recruiting and retaining people of 6% driven by Renewable Energy, with a real customer mindset.
2011 net written premiums m Marine and Norway 2012 OUTLOOK An excellent underwriting result In 2012, real GDP growth is expected of 264m and COR of 85.4% to remain positive but at a low level in despite adverse weather 1,824m Denmark and Norway.
The economic Net loss of c35m from Copenhagen slowdown is also expected to have an cloudburst in July and November storms.
impact on Sweden for the first time.
Trading conditions are therefore expected Sweden 957 to continue to be challenging, although Denmark 733 less so than in some other parts of Europe.
Norway 134 Despite this environment, we are confident of delivering our new strategy and Combined operating ratio % Rate movement % continuing to deliver strong underwriting 91.4 8 profitability in 2012.
7 7 88.3 86.2 85.4 85.4 2 1 Underwriting result m Personal Motor Personal Household 264 254 Commercial Motor 242 Commercial Liability 190 Commercial Property Movement in renewal rate for 116 December 2011 v December 2010 visit www.
