DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report The Directors present their Report together with the financial A long term investment horizon is observed and little attention is paid statements of the Company for the year to 31 March 2011. to short term market trends when deciding policy.
This patient approach allows market volatility to be exploited to shareholders Business Review long term advantage.
An average holding period for investments Business and Status of five years or more is targeted.
The Company is an investment company within the meaning of Investment may be made in fixed interest securities, convertible section 833 of the Companies Act 2006. securities, funds, unquoted entities and other assets based on the The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
It was individual investment cases.
With prior approval of the Board, the approved as an investment trust under section 1158 of the Company may use derivatives for the purpose of efficient portfolio Corporation Tax Act 2010 for the year ended 31 March 2010, management i. e. for the purpose of reducing, transferring or subject to matters that may arise from any subsequent enquiry by HM eliminating investment risk in its investment, including protection Revenue and Customs into the Companys tax return.
In the opinion of against currency risk and for investment purposes.
The primary the Directors, the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so investment focus is on equity investments predominantly with good as to enable it to continue to seek such approval.
Objective Exposures to any one entity are monitored regularly by the Board.
At the time of investment the maximum exposure to any one holding Scottish Mortgage carries on business as an Investment Trust.
The investment objective is to maximise total return, whilst also generating is limited to 8% of total assets.
A maximum of 40% of total assets may be invested in holdings individually exceeding 3% of total real dividend growth, from a focused and actively managed global portfolio.
The equity portfolio is relatively concentrated and assets.
These two restrictions do not apply to investment in unit trusts or OEICs, investments by way of rights issues or certain government investments are chosen on their long term merits rather than with reference to geographical asset allocation or the composition of an bonds.
The maximum permitted investment in other UK listed investment companies in aggregate is 15% of gross assets.
The Company aims to achieve a greater return than the FTSE All World Index in sterling terms over a five year rolling period.
Borrowings are invested in equity markets when it is believed that investment considerations merit the Company taking a geared Investment Policy position to equities.
Gearing levels, and the extent of equity gearing, Scottish Mortgage is a truly active fund and does not attempt to track both in absolute terms and relative to the peer group, are discussed its benchmark index.
Its objective is to maximise total return, whilst by the Board and Managers at every Board meeting.
The portion of also generating real dividend growth, from a focused and actively borrowings which is not invested in equities may be invested in fixed managed global portfolio.
Investments are chosen for inclusion interest securities.
Apart from in exceptional circumstances the within the equity portfolio by looking closely at the merits of Company will not take out additional borrowings if, at the time of individual companies in a structured and rational fashion.
borrowing, this takes the level of effective gearing beyond 130% A global perspective is taken.
Asset allocation is the outcome of with net asset value calculated with borrowings at par value.
stock selection and not arrived at by making specific weightings The benchmark is a reference point for judging performance and to regions, industries or sectors.
Achieving diversification is a emphatically is not a portfolio construction tool.
The portfolio does requirement when selecting investments but an unconstrained not set out to reproduce the index and there will be periods when approach is adopted and there are no fixed limits set as to performance diverges significantly from the benchmark.
Performance geographical, industry and sector exposure.
Levels of diversity against the benchmark is assessed over a five year rolling term.
achieved are monitored by the Board on a regular basis.
Details of investment strategy and activity this year can be found in The number of equity holdings will typically range between the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5 and the Managers 50 and 100 and are chosen from around the world.
A detailed analysis of the Companys investment portfolio is set out on pages 16 to 18.
20 ANNUAL REPORT 2011 DIRECTORS REPORT Discount Borrowings The Board recognises that it is in the long term interests of shareholders There are four debentures in issue, all of which are listed and quoted to manage discount volatility and believes that the prime driver of on the London Stock Exchange and details of which are given on discounts over the longer term is performance.
The Board does not pages 42, 48 and 49.
In addition, multi-currency loan facilities are have a formal discount target at which shares will be bought back in place which are also shown on page 42. as it believes that the announcement of specific targets is likely to During the year bank loans of US$99 million and 100 million hinder rather than help the successful execution of a buyback policy.
were renewed and a new two year 61 million facility entered into.
Future buybacks will be considered primarily by reference to the The Company has an Aaa Issuer Rating by Moodys.
Companys discount relative to its peers.
Review of the Year and Future Trends During the year the Company bought back a total of 3,000,000 A review of the main features of the year and the investment outlook shares, all of which are held in treasury, increasing net asset value is contained in the Chairmans Statement and the Managers Review per share by 0.14%.
Between 1 April 2011 and the date of this on pages 4, 5 and 8 to 12 respectively.
report no further shares have been bought back.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties Performance The Companys assets consist mainly of listed securities and its At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of principal risks are therefore market related and include market risk performance measures to assess the Companys success in achieving comprising currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, its objectives.
liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of those risks and how The key performance indicators KPIs used to measure the progress they are managed is contained in note 22 to the financial statements and performance of the Company over time are established industry on pages 45 to 49. measures and are as follows: Other risks faced by the Company include the following: the movement in net asset value per ordinary share after Regulatory Risk failure to comply with applicable legal and deducting borrowings at fair value : regulatory requirements could lead to suspension of the Companys the movement in the share price: Stock Exchange Listing, financial penalties or a qualified audit the movement of net asset value and share price performance report.
Breach of section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010, compared to the Benchmark: formerly section 842 ICTA 1988 could lead to the Company being subject to tax on capital gains.
The Managers monitor investment the discount after deducting borrowings at fair value : movements and the level of forecast income and expenditure to the total expense ratio: ensure the provisions of section 1158 are not breached.
Baillie earnings per share: and Giffords heads of Business Risk & Internal Audit and Regulatory Risk provide regular reports to the Audit Committee on Baillie Giffords dividend per share.
The one, five and ten year records of the KPIs are shown on pages Major regulatory change could impose unnecessary compliance 1, 2, 3 and 19. burdens on the Company or threaten the viability of the investment In addition to the above, the Board considers performance against company structure.
In such circumstances representation is made to other companies within the AIC Global Growth Sector.
ensure that the special circumstances of investment trusts are recognised.
Results and Dividends The net asset value per share after deducting borrowing at fair Operational Financial Risk failure of the Managers accounting value increased by 17.9% during the year, compared to an systems or those of other third party service providers could lead to increase in the benchmark of 5.7%: the discount was 9.1% at an inability to provide accurate reporting and monitoring or a 31 March 2011. misappropriation of assets.
The Manager has a comprehensive business continuity plan which facilitates continued operation of the The Board recommends a final dividend of 6.20p per ordinary business in the event of a service disruption or major disaster.
The share which, together with the interim of 5.80p already paid, makes Board reviews the Managers Report on Internal Controls and the a total of 12.00p for the year compared with 11.30p for the reports by other key third party providers are reviewed by the previous year.
Manager on behalf of the Board.
If approved, the recommended final dividend on the ordinary shares Discount Volatility the discount at which the Companys shares will be paid on 4 July 2011 to shareholders on the register at the trade can widen.
The Board monitors the level of discount and the close of business on 3 June 2011.
The ex-dividend date is 1 June Company has authority to buy back its own shares.
Gearing Risk the Company may borrow money for investment The Companys Registrars offer a Dividend Reinvestment Plan purposes.
If the investments fall in value, any borrowings will magnify see page 50 and the final date for elections for this dividend the extent of this loss.
If borrowing facilities are not renewed, the is 13 June 2011.
Company may have to sell investments to repay borrowings.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 21
