223791 TempleBarAR pg16-27 22 02 2012 18:43 Page 16 Active investment working for you Report of the directors The directors present their report and accounts for the year income and capital to achieve a long-term total return ended 31 December 2011. greater than the benchmark FTSE All-Share Index, through investment primarily in UK securities.
The Groups policy is BUSINESS REVIEW to invest in a broad spread of securities with typically the Introduction majority of the portfolio selected from the constituents of This business review forms part of the Report of the the FTSE 100 Index.
Its function is to provide a balanced and The UK equity element of the portfolio will be mostly comprehensive review of the Groups performance and invested in the FTSE All-Share Index: however, exceptional development during the year and its position at the year-end.
positions may be sanctioned by the Board and up to 10% The review also covers the principal risks and uncertainties of the portfolio may be held in listed international equities faced by the Group and sets out key performance in developed economies.
The Group may continue to hold indicators used to measure, monitor and manage the securities that cease to be quoted or listed if the Manager Groups business.
considers this to be appropriate.
There is an absolute limit Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC was incorporated in of 10% on individual stocks with a maximum exposure to a 1926 with the registered number 214601. specific industrial or commercial sector of 25%, in each case irrespective of their weightings in the benchmark Business of the Group index.
The Group carries on business as an investment company It is the Groups policy to invest no more than 15% of under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and was its gross assets in other listed investment companies approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment including listed investment trusts.
trust in accordance with Section 1158 of the Corporation The Group maintains a diversified portfolio of Tax Act 2010 for the year ended 31 December 2010, subject investments, typically comprising 70-80 holdings, but to any further enquiry by HMRC.
In the opinion of the without restricting the Group from holding a more or less directors the Group has subsequently conducted its affairs concentrated portfolio from time to time as circumstances so that it should continue to qualify.
The Groups principal business activity of investment The Groups long-term investment strategy emphasises: management is sub-contracted to Investec Asset Achieving a portfolio yield of between 120-140% of Management Limited IAM under the ultimate that of the FTSE All-Share Index.
supervision of the board of directors.
The Group has one Stocks of companies that are out of favour and whose wholly owned subsidiary company, whose principal share prices do not match the Managers assessment of business is investment dealing: this company is currently their longer term value.
From time to time fixed interest holdings or non equity A review of the business is given in the Chairmans interests may be held on an opportunistic basis.
Statement and the Managers Report.
The results of the Derivative instruments are not normally used but in Group are shown on page 28. certain circumstances, and with the prior approval of the Board, their use may be considered either for hedging Going concern purposes or to exploit a specific investment opportunity.
The directors have reviewed the going concern basis of Liquidity and borrowings are managed with the aim of accounting for the Group.
The Groups assets consist increasing returns to shareholders.
The Groups gearing substantially of equity shares in listed companies and in range total gross assets divided by total net assets may most circumstances are realisable within a short timescale.
fluctuate between 75% and 130%, based on the current The use of the going concern basis of accounting is balance sheet structure, with an absolute limit of 150%.
appropriate because there are no material uncertainties As a general rule it is the Boards intention that the related to events or conditions that may cast significant portfolio should be reasonably fully invested.
An doubt about the ability of the Group to continue as a going investment level of 90% of shareholder funds is regarded concern.
After making enquiries, the directors have a as a guideline minimum investment level dependent on reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate market conditions.
resources to continue in operational existence for the Risk is managed through diversification of holdings, foreseeable future, including recourse to a 25 million investment limits set by the Board and appropriate overdraft facility with HSBC Bank.
Accordingly, the directors financial and other controls relating to the administration continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the of assets.
Investment approach Investment objective and policy The investment approach of our Manager is premised on a The Groups investment objective is to provide growth in contrarian view on the timing of buy and sell decisions, 16 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 223791 TempleBarAR pg16-27 22 02 2012 18:43 Page 17 Active investment working for you Report of the directors continued buying the shares of companies when sentiment towards Performance them is thought to be near its worst and selling them as In the year to 31 December 2011 the net asset value total fundamental profit improvement and or re-evaluation of return of the Group was -0.5% compared with a total their long-term prospects takes place.
return of the Groups benchmark index of -3.5%.
In The belief is that repeated investor behaviour in driving addition, the graph below shows the ungeared investment down the prices of out of favour companies to below their performance over a five year period compared with the fair value will offer investment opportunities.
This will FTSE All-Share Index.
The Chairmans Statement on pages 4 allow the Group to purchase shares at significant discounts to 5 and the Managers Report on pages 7 to 11 include a to their fair value and to sell them as they become more review of developments during the year together with fully valued, principally as a result of predictable patterns in information on investment activity within the Groups human psychology.
portfolio and an assessment of future developments.
The Managers process is designed to produce best ideas to drive active fund management within a rigorous Ungeared 5 year performance control framework.
The framework begins through 130 narrowing down the universe of stocks by passing those Temple Bar gross assets, excluding effects of gearing companies with a market capitalisation above 100 million 120 FTSE All-Share Index Total Return through a screening process which highlights the weakest 110 performing stocks.
This isolates opportunities with attractive sentiment characteristics which are then in turn 100 scrutinised in greater detail to identify investment opportunities.
90 The process is very much bottom up and can result in 80 large sector positions being taken if enough stocks of sufficient interest are found within a single sector.
70 However, top down risk analysis is undertaken to identify potential concentration of risk and to factor this awareness 60 into portfolio construction.
The portfolio comprises stocks 50 which have been purchased for different reasons and at 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2006 different times.
In general, because of the bottom up approach to stockpicking, each of these reasons is independent of the other and the portfolio, therefore, is not Key performance indicators excessively vulnerable to longer term macro trends.
Cash is The key performance indicators KPIs used to determine a residual of the process and normally will not exceed 5% the progress and performance of the Group over time, and of the portfolio value.
which are comparable to those reported by other The approach to stock selection and portfolio investment trusts, are set out below: construction is driven by four core beliefs: Net asset value total return relative to the 1.
Markets overreact to news on the upside and the FTSE All-Share Index downside.
The Manager aims to be sceptical of the Performance attribution crowd and aware of investor psychology, which often Discount on net asset value causes overvaluation of those stocks that are deemed to Earnings and dividends per share have good prospects and an undervaluation of those Total expense ratio which are out of favour.
While some elements of performance against KPIs are 2.
There are few companies which sustain below normal beyond management control they provide measures of the profits over the longer term.
Weaker companies tend to Groups absolute and relative performance and are, leave an industry, thus improving the balance of supply therefore, monitored by the Board on a regular basis.
and demand, are bid for or management is changed.
Similarly, there are few companies which can sustain Net asset value NAV total return supernormal profits over the longer term.
Such profits In reviewing the performance of the assets of the Groups tend to be competed or regulated away.
portfolio the Board monitors the net asset value in relation 3.
Fundamental valuation is the key determinant of stock to the FTSE All-Share Index.
During the year the net asset prices over the long term.
In other words cheap stocks value total return of the Group was -0.5% compared with a will outperform expensive stocks.
total return of -3.5% by the FTSE All-Share Index.
Diversification is an important control.
Particular companies or sectors can be out of favour for a considerable time.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 17 223791 TempleBarAR pg16-27 22 02 2012 18:43 Page 18 Active investment working for you Report of the directors continued Discount on net asset value Investment strategy The Board monitors the premium discount at which the An inappropriate investment strategy on matters such as Groups shares trade in relation to the assets.
During the asset allocation or the level of gearing may lead to year the shares traded at an average premium to NAV of underperformance against the Groups benchmark index or 3.8%.
This compares with an average discount of 0.9% in peer companies, resulting in the Groups shares trading on the previous year.
The Board and Manager closely monitor a wider discount.
The Board manages such risks by both movements in the Groups share price and significant diversification of investments through its investment dealings in the shares.
In order to avoid substantial restrictions and guidelines, which are monitored and overhangs or shortages of shares in the market the Board reported on by the Manager.
The Manager provides the asks shareholders to approve resolutions which allow for directors with regular and accurate management the buy back of shares and their issuance which can assist information including absolute and relative performance in the management of the discount.
Regular demand data, attribution analysis, revenue estimates, liquidity generated by monthly investment in the Savings Scheme reports, risk profile and shareholder analysis.
The Board and the use of marketing and promotional activity also monitors the implementation and results of the investment assist in keeping the discount at an acceptable level.
process with the Portfolio Manager, who attends Board meetings.
Periodically the Board holds a separate meeting Earnings and dividend per share devoted to strategy, the most recent one being in It remains the directors intention to distribute over time by September 2010. way of dividends substantially all of the Groups net revenue income after expenses and taxation.
The Manager aims to Income risk dividends maximise total returns from the portfolio and attaches great Generating the necessary level of income from portfolio importance to dividends in achieving total return.
investments to meet the Groups expenses and to provide The portfolio will typically provide a yield premium to adequate reserves from which to base a sustainable the market.
The final dividend recommended for the year is programme of increasing dividend payments to 21.23p per ordinary share which brings the total for the shareholders is subject to the risk that income generation year to 35.23p per ordinary share, an increase of 3.0%.
This from investments fails to meet the level required.
The will be the 28th consecutive year in which the Group has Board monitors this risk through the receipt of detailed increased the overall level of its dividend payment.
income reports and forecasts which are considered at each meeting.
As at 31 December 2011 the Group had Total expense ratio TER distributable revenue reserves of 30.163 million before The TER is an expression of the Groups management fees and declaration of the final dividend for 2011 of 12.675 million.
all other operating expenses including tax relief where allowable but excluding interest payments as a percentage of Share price risk average month-end net assets over the year.
The TER for the The Groups share price and discount to NAV are year ended 31 December 2011 was 0.44% 2010: 0.44%.
The monitored by the Manager and considered by the Board at Board reviews each year a comparison of the Groups TER each meeting.
Some short-term influences over the with those of its peers.
At the present time the Group has one discount may be exercised by the use of share repurchases of the lowest TERs in the growth and income sector of at acceptable prices: however, market sentiment is beyond investment trust companies.
the absolute control of the Manager and Board.
Principal risks and uncertainties With the assistance of the Manager the Board has drawn up a risk matrix which identifies the key risks to the Group.
The Board reviews and agrees policies, which have remained unchanged since the beginning of the accounting period, for managing these risks, as summarised below.
18 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
