Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Business Review This Business Review provides shareholders and other readers with information about the Companys business and results in 2011 and looks forward to the year ahead.
It is divided into two sections: Corporate and Investment.
CORPORATE SECTION preference shares which can be deployed, Corporate Section Objectives and Strategy hedged or neutralised with cash balances Objectives and Strategy Witans objective is to be the preferred according to our view of the outlook for Management Arrangements choice for wealth creation through markets.
In addition, it has a 50m short The Witan Benchmark equity investment, adding value in the term multi-currency borrowing facility Dividend Policy long term for its investors.
This means to give additional flexibility.
We have a Share Buybacks and Discount that Witan will seek to make money for policy of actively managing our gearing Policy shareholders, to do so more effectively within limits set by the Board see Marketing than its sector peers with similar Investment Policy section on page 11.
Debt and Gearing Policy objectives and to achieve consistent Management Arrangements Key Performance Indicators outperformance of the global stock As already noted, the management of Principal Risks and Uncertainties markets represented by its benchmark.
Witans portfolio is predominantly Witan Investment Services Recognising the importance of dividends outsourced to third party investment Priorities for 2012 in the returns from equity investment, managers around the world.
A small Witan has a policy of seeking to increase proportion is invested in externally Investment Section page 11 its dividend in real terms, ahead of managed collective funds selected by inflation.
In addition, Witan seeks to Investment Policy Witans in-house executive management attract new investors to buy the Trusts Portfolio Review team in areas to complement the shares in order to provide ongoing The year in summary delegated remit of Witans external liquidity for shareholders.
The executive management Use of derivatives Witans portfolio has a multi-manager team manages and controls these Gearing management investment structure.
This reduces the relationships, selects new managers Directly held investments performance volatility which can occur when a change is appropriate and advises Portfolio diversification when employing a single manager.
This the Board on all relevant investment and Investment Managers approach allows us to select a range of business matters.
The executive Manager Review high quality fund managers with management team is also responsible for Portfolio breakdown differing areas of expertise from around adjusting the overall risk appetite of the Outlook the world often where the fund portfolio and for managing the Witans Multi-Manager Approach manager is not otherwise available on the subsidiary company, Witan Investment Our Current Managers same terms or at all to the UK investor.
An Evolving Process Your Board believes that active Changes to the investment manager linemanagement of risk is essential in up during the year, along with other investment.
This is particularly relevant investment issues, are referred to in when markets are threatened by major greater detail in the Investment Section economic disruption, as seen in recent on pages 11 to 21.
Our current managers years, but an adaptable approach is also are listed on page 12. needed in order to enhance investment Witan uses third parties for the performance in more positive times.
supporting services it requires, including: Where appropriate, we are also willing to employ innovative investment techniques BNP Paribas Securities Services SA and invest in diverse asset classes.
BNPSS for global custody, Investment trusts have the advantage of investment accounting and being able to borrow in order to improve administration.
Witan has Frostrow Capital LLP for company 110 million of long term debt including secretarial services.
6 Annual Report 2011 International Financial Data Services The Companys policy towards its Dividend Policy IFDS Limited as the savings plan employees is to attract and retain staff The Board has declared a second interim administrators of Witan Wisdom and with the particular skills and expertise dividend of 6.55 pence per share, to be Jump Savings.
paid to shareholders on 30 March 2012, required to manage the affairs of an Cauldron Consulting for media making a total distribution for 2011 of investment trust company.
This has no specific policies in respect of Tangible Financial for advertising.
represents an increase of 10.1%, more environmental or social and community than twice the rate of consumer price Towers Watson to monitor the market affairs.
inflation to December 2011 4.2% and for managers.
The Witan Benchmark meets the Companys ongoing intention From time to time, as required, Witan Your Companys benchmark is a to increase dividends per share in real also procures professional advice in reference point for what shareholders can terms, ahead of inflation subject to the areas of legal, compliance, expect in the long term from an market circumstances.
This is the 37th investment consulting, financial and investment in Witan, in terms of the consecutive year that the annual tax advice.
underlying investment structure of the dividend has been increased.
Witans aim as indicated in the first portfolio and in performance.
It enables Share Buybacks and Discount Policy paragraph of this Business Review on the aims of your Company to be Your Board places great importance on page 6 is to provide consistently encapsulated succinctly without the need the encouragement of a liquid market superior returns to shareholders.
Although it is in Witans shares on the stock other multi-manager services, we do not an equity benchmark, your Board exchange.
A healthy two-way market levy an additional fee on top of the reserves the right to invest in other assets enables shareholders to sell Witan underlying external managers fees and if appropriate, for better performance or shares at a price that reflects prevailing any negotiated savings in investment capital preservation.
Since 1 October market value while potential new management fees fall directly through 2007 the benchmark has been: shareholders should also be able to to lower the costs for shareholders.
The Company operates 40% FTSE All-Share Index Board applies strict controls over central an active share buyback policy, corporate costs.
Expenditure is only 20% FTSE All-World North America purchasing shares for cancellation undertaken when necessary or when a Index when they stand at a significant specific endeavour has been identified 20% FTSE All-World Europe ex UK discount to the net asset value which is likely to achieve a profitable Index excluding income, with debt at market return.
Our Total Expense Ratio TER 20% FTSE All-World Asia Pacific value, with the objective of achieving a reflects this disciplined attitude to costs Index.
sustainable discount of 10% or below as well as our ability to secure external This reflects a balance between the subject to market conditions.
This investment management services on domestic exposure and international policy has the direct effect of improving competitive terms.
The figure for 2011 status of the UK market and a broadly net asset value per share with the was 0.87%, or 0.71% excluding spread exposure to growth in other additional strategic aims of mitigating performance fees paid and accrued.
This regions of the world.
To assist volatility in the discount and bringing compares with a TER of 1.07% in 2010, the share price closer to the net asset shareholders who may apply different or 0.81% excluding performance fees value.
benchmarks in evaluating comparative and with a weighted average TER of performance, we include performance 0.78% for the AIC Global Growth sector The level of share buybacks during 2011 information for other commonly used October 2011, excluding performance is referred to in detail in the Chairmans indices in the Key Performance Indicators fees, source: AIC and of 1.6% for the Statement.
This activity not only summary section on page 2. open-ended Global Growth sector generated an increase in net asset value source: IMA, Financial Express as at per share of 0.2% but also helped to The benchmark provides a basis for December 2011. reverse periods of widening discounts assessing the long term performance of occasioned by market conditions.
Over shorter periods, Since November 2005 the Company performance can be expected to vary, has had a lease on office premises at Marketing 14 Queen Annes Gate, London sometimes considerably, from that of the In addition to share buybacks, Witan benchmark, since the portfolio is SW1H 9AA, which since 21 February operates an ongoing marketing actively managed.
Over the longer term, 2011 has also become the Companys programme designed to stimulate interest registered office.
we aim for consistent outperformance.
in Witan by explaining our investment 7 Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Business Review continued strategy and performance to existing and Principal Risks and Uncertainties the application of relevant policies on potential new shareholders.
This The Board has identified the key risks to gearing and liquidity programme communicates with private the Group which need to be managed manager diversification, as a multiand professional investors, financial and has collated them in a risk matrix manager structure means that from a document.
The risks relating to Witans risk point of view Witan is less advisers and intermediaries using a range subsidiary company, Witan Investment exposed to individual manager of media including direct meetings, press Services Limited WIS, are separately performance than with a interviews and advertising through conventionally structured portfolio traditional media and the internet.
The respective documents are delegating authorities to the executive reviewed and updated regularly by the particular, the Company aims to provide management team to manage risk relevant Board of directors.
an informative and easy to use web-site actively, whether to preserve capital or www.
com to enable investors and The Board is conscious that it must capitalise on opportunities.
their financial advisers to make informed regularly review the nature of its decisions about including Witan shares in 2.
Investment activity and strategy risks corporate objectives and strategy to their investment portfolios.
It is important that investment activities, ensure that both remain relevant and including asset allocation, stock selection appropriate in a changing financial Debt and Gearing Policy and the level of gearing, are managed in a services and savings market.
This includes Witan has long term debt consisting of disciplined and prudent way, to reduce the scrutiny of investment policies, the role debentures, secured bonds and risk of falls in Witans portfolio value or of marketing, the service offered by the preference share capital.
The Company underperformance against the Companys Witan Wisdom and Jump Savings also has a 50 million one year multibenchmark index or its peer group.
schemes and wider industry trends.
These currency facility, which provides Adverse performance could also result in issues are reviewed at least annually by additional flexibility over the level of the Companys shares trading on a wider the Board.
gearing, as well as enabling the discount.
The Board seeks to manage these Company to borrow in other currencies The Groups key risks fall broadly under risks by implementing an appropriate than sterling, if deemed appropriate.
the following categories: asset allocation and a portfolio that is Witan may either invest its borrowings spread across a diverse range of 1.
Market and portfolio risks fully, or neutralise the gearing effect investment managers and investments.
Witan has traditionally been a vehicle for with cash balances or the sale of equity These aspects are regularly reviewed, in UK and overseas equity investment.
index futures according to our view of addition to the extent of borrowings.
Whilst this does not preclude a more the markets.
diversified or defensive strategy during During the year Witans Chief Executive Key Performance Indicators periods of falling or turbulent markets, Officer CEO, Andrew Bell, managed the Your Board assesses its performance in nonetheless a key risk of investing in overall business and investment portfolio meeting the Companys objective against Witan is a general fall in equity prices.
in accordance with limits and restrictions the following key performance indicators: determined by the Board.
These include The other generic risks, as with any limits on the extent to which borrowings net asset value total return international equity portfolio, are those may be used.
The Board reviews regularly total shareholder return of overall investment strategy and the matters delegated to executive investment performance compared country, currency, industrial sector, and management and the CEO confirms with the benchmark stock selection.
There are also risks compliance at each Board meeting.
annual dividend growth after taking associated with the choice of managers.
Directors are provided with account of inflation Your Board seeks to manage these risks comprehensive management information discount to net asset value through: covering many aspects of the business total expense ratio.
appropriate asset allocation decisions, including investment performance data, Witans performance in 2011 against the with delegated authority limits set for financial reports and shareholder above indicators is shown on page 2, with the Executive team analyses.
The Board reviews investment most being discussed in the Chairmans regular reviews of the competence strategy at each Board meeting and Statement on pages 3 to 5.
The Board also and stock selection skills of fund monitors the implementation and results reviews absolute and relative volatility managers of the investment process with the CEO.
and risk statistics for the portfolio and monitoring the economic outlook, The CEO regularly reviews reports and evaluates employee performance against geo-political environment and stock data which monitor the portfolios assigned personal targets.
market conditions around the world principal risk factors.
Corporate governance and Corporation Tax.
The criteria are the accurate reporting and monitoring of shareholder relations monitored by the CEO.
Details Details of the Companys compliance of how the Board monitors the services The Company must comply with the with corporate governance best practice, provided by BNPSS and its other provisions of the Companies Act 2006 including information on relations with suppliers, and the key elements designed the Companies Act, and, as the shareholders, are set out in the Corporate to provide effective internal control, are Companys shares are listed for trading Governance Statement on pages 28 to 35. explained further in the internal control on the London Stock Exchange, the section of the Corporate Governance The Board has for a number of years Company must comply with the UK Statement.
conducted an annual internal review of Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and its governance processes effectiveness in Disclosure Rules UKLA Rules.
A breach Witan Investment Services WIS managing the Company and enabling it of the Companies Act could result in the Witan Investment Services Limited is a to evolve in response to future Company and or the directors being wholly owned subsidiary of Witan challenges.
In addition to this, it has fined or becoming the subject of Investment Trust plc.
It was established established a 3-yearly schedule for an criminal proceedings.
Breach of the in March 2005 and is authorised and external review, the most recent of which UKLA Rules could result in the regulated by the FSA to provide was conducted in late 2010. suspension of the Companys shares investment products and services and to which would in turn lead to a breach of give investment advice to professional Operational and regulatory risks are the provisions of the CTA.
regularly and extensively reviewed by Witans Audit Committee.
Witan The Board relies on the CEO, the The principal activity of WIS is to provide Investment Services Limited WIS is Company Secretary and the Groups executive management services to the subject to its own operating rules and professional advisers to ensure Boards of Witan Investment Trust plc regulations and is regulated by the compliance with the CTA, the Witan and Witan Pacific Investment Financial Services Authority FSA.
Companies Act and the UKLA Rules.
Trust plc Witan Pacific and stimulate Your Board takes its own regulatory WIS is regulated by the Financial interest in their shares.
responsibilities very seriously and Services Authority for the marketing and Its objectives are: reviews the main points of compliance administration of savings plans and the against requirements on a quarterly provision of investment advice to to operate a reliable and efficient basis.
Your Board also takes corporate, professional clients.
The savings plans investment savings platform for legal, accounting and tax advice as are administered on behalf of WIS by Witan and Witan Pacific investors appropriate.
International Financial Data Services to provide suitable advice to the IFDS.
Boards of its corporate clients Operationally the multi-manager to minimise the operating costs for structure is robust, as each of the The Board takes legal, accounting or Witan Investment Trust investment managers, the custodian and compliance advice, as appropriate, to to seek sources of revenue to generate the fund accountants keep their own monitor changes in the regulatory a profit.
records which are reconciled monthly.
Management monitors the activities of all Current issues include the Alternative WIS has two discernible channels of third parties and reports any significant Investment Fund Manager Directive from income by which its performance may be issues to the Board.
Comprehensive the European Commission and the Retail judged.
These are the savings plan contractual obligations and Distribution Review, which will affect the revenues from transaction fees and indemnification provisions have been investment management industry as well annual management charges and, put in place with each of the third party as the marketing of investment products secondly, executive management and service providers.
Their practical marketing fees paid by its corporate implications will become clearer as the clients, Witan and Witan Pacific.
Accounting, legal and regulatory details of how they will be implemented In order to qualify as an investment trust The savings plans provided for WIS are specified in the coming year.
the Company must comply with sections clients are marketed under the Witan 1158-59 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 5.
Operational Wisdom and Jump Savings brands.
A breach of these sections could Many of the Groups operations are currently have over 29,000 customers result in the Company losing investment outsourced to third parties, principally with assets of some 200 million trust status and, as a consequence, BNPSS.
Disruption to, or failure of, the invested.
The main costs incurred by WIS capital gains realised within the accounting, payment systems or custody which form part of the charges paid by Companys portfolio would be subject to records operated by BNPSS could prevent savings plan account holders are fees to 9 Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Business Review continued the savings schemes administrator which In 2012, the key priorities include: aiming to deliver dividend growth since December 2010 has been IFDS.
ahead of inflation maintaining an appropriate strategic communicating Witans more active Priorities for 2012 asset allocation to reflect changing investment process to existing and 2011 was a disruptive year for economies opportunities in the world economy potential shareholders and financial markets, with selecting and monitoring suitable delivering a good service to the disappointing returns for equity managers to deliver our strategic corporate and individual clients of investors, including Witans shareholders.
objectives through a multi-manager Witan Investment Services The Board and the Executive team are structure seeking business development focused on taking advantage of the active management of risk appetite, opportunities where Witans multiopportunities which may have been responding to tactical opportunities manager expertise can be applied revealed by the general equity market to boost returns or to protect capital beneficially.
10 Annual Report 2011 INVESTMENT SECTION Investment risk is managed through: profit and dividend growth from Investment Policy companies.
This positive news flow for diversification of the investment Witan invests primarily in global equities.
the corporate sector was soon challenged portfolio across global markets by two major negative events.
The first Equity exposure is unlikely, in normal selection of a range of investment was the catastrophic Japanese earthquake conditions, to drop below 80% although managers with different mandates in March, both in terms of the shock this does not preclude a more defensive monitoring and reviewing investment caused by the human scale of the disaster positioning in exceptional market manager performance and portfolios and the disruption to economic activity conditions.
The Board is prepared to active management of risk appetite, domestically and, through globally consider alternative investments when taking account of asset allocation, interconnected trade links, world-wide.
currency exposures and gearing levels This sapped the momentum from the carefully controlled use of liquid, The Company has the power under its improving growth picture seen at the exchange-traded derivatives Articles of Association to borrow up to start of the year.
The second negative principally equity index futures.
100% of the adjusted total of capital and event was a sustained rise in commodity reserves.
This allows the Board to seek to During the year the Company invested prices, including oil.
A number of factors improve performance through gearing by its assets with a view to spreading contributed to this, including rapid borrowing amounts equivalent in value investment risk and in accordance with growth in emerging economies, financial to shareholders funds.
In practice the the investment policy as set out above.
In market speculation at a time of abundant Board would not, other than temporarily particular it has maintained a diversified liquidity and the Arab Spring which in exceptional circumstances, allow portfolio in terms of stocks, sectors and increased investor fears that oil supplies geography.
The portfolio has been would be disrupted while producing gearing as defined on page 2 to rise to actively managed by the investment countries underwent political change.
Over the past five years managers, with overall asset allocation The effect of rising commodity inflation it has varied between 0% and 15% while and risk being managed by Witans was that many emerging economies on occasion the Company has held a executive team.
The directors have switched priority from growth promotion small net cash position.
At the end of received regular reports on investment to inflation fighting and raised interest 2011, the Company had in place 110 activity and portfolio construction, both rates, while consumers in developed million of long term debt and 15 at and between the regular meetings of economies were hit by a squeeze between million of short term borrowings the Board.
rising inflation and only slowly-growing equivalent to 12.6% of shareholders incomes.
Growth therefore weakened in funds, although effective gearing was Portfolio Review many countries during the early summer.
less than this 10.5%, owing to cash The year in summary holdings held by the individual The first part of 2011 saw improving The result of these conflicting forces was managers.
economic growth, together with strong that most stock markets were little Performance for 2011 Performance since multi-manager inception 105 220 3 10.5 200 0 100 7.5 180 95 -3 160 4.5 140 90 -6 120 1.5 85 -9 100 80 -12 80 -1.5 Sep Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Share price total return NAV total return at fair value NAV total return at fair value Share price total return NAV total return relative to the Benchmark right hand axis NAV total return relative to the Benchmark right hand axis Source: Datastream from 31 December 2010 to 31 December 2011 Source: Datastream from 30 September 2004 to 31 December 2011 11 Indexed Performance Indexed Performance Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Business Review continued The table below shows the current investment management arrangements: Equity mandate Investment Manager Benchmark Investment style UK Artemis Investment FTSE All-Share Recovery special Management situations UK Lindsell Train FTSE All-Share Long term growth from undervalued brands UK NewSmith Asset Management FTSE All-Share Flexible, thematic UK Smaller Companies Henderson Global Investors Hoare Govett Smaller Growth at an attractive Cos ex investment price companies Global Southeastern Asset FTSE All-World Value Management Global MFS Investment FTSE All-World Growth at an attractive Management price Global Thomas White International FTSE All-World Diversified growth at a reasonable price Global Veritas Asset Management MSCI All-World Fundamental value, real return objective Pan-European Marathon Asset FTSE All-World Capital cycles Management Developed Europe Asia Pacific ex Japan Comgest FTSE All-World Asia Fundamental ex Japan, Australia, research New Zealand Emerging Markets Trilogy MSCI Emerging Markets Fundamental, growth orientated Directly-held Witan Executive team Witans external benchmark Collective funds investments invested in mispriced assets, recovery situations or specialist assets changed by mid-year.
Expectations that attempts to achieve agreement would Germany and other stronger economies growth would pick up in the autumn prove to be.
Successive inconclusive Euro were willing to fund losses if certain began to fade during July, owing to a zone political summits dominated countries defaulted or to provide bridging short-lived but nerve-wracking impasse economic and market sentiment for liquidity while weaker countries over the US budget, which undermined much of the latter half of 2011.
Given confidence in the US political systems tried to assess the extent of the financial spreading concerns about sovereign ability to function effectively, and by systems losses if one or more countries in defaults, deposits began to shift from deepening foreboding over the prospects the Euro zone were to default on their weaker to stronger countries, adding to for the European currency area.
debts but it became clear that there was fears of financial sector losses from their no political consensus on how to tackle sovereign bond holdings.
The banks We commented in last years review that the problems initially confined to the consequently became unable to fund the policy contradictions in Europe relatively small economies of Greece themselves fully in the markets in an remained a potential source of instability, Ireland and Portugal.
As a result, echo of the 2008 banking crisis and had but underestimated how tortuous the investors began to doubt whether to borrow enormous sums from the 12 Annual Report 2011 European Central Bank ECB.
For a several key economies e. g. Italy and Manager changes period, it seemed that the European Spain initiated reforms to improve their During the year, only one change was authorities were blind to the developing fiscal position and growth prospects, made to the list of Witans managers.
In though the initial effects of these banking crisis, leading to highly volatile April we closed the smaller of our two measures were to subdue economic trading conditions as investors feared a European investment mandates growth still further.
Although there repeat of the financial chaos after allocated to Varenne Capital Partners.
remained gaps in the policy framework Lehman Brothers went bankrupt in 2008.
This was not by reason of performance notably how to promote growth which had been good but as part of a By the end of the year, it appeared that through a period of austerity the risk of a strategic reduction in our European European politicians were more alert to banking collapse appeared to have been equity exposure.
the financial risks stemming from their averted.
prolonged public disagreements on fiscal Use of Derivatives At the same time as this catastrophe risk and monetary policy.
The ECB acted Equity index futures were used for faded, global inflationary pressures began relatively cautiously to buy government general portfolio management purposes to fade, ushering in a shift towards easier bonds where yields were judged to have on a number of occasions during 2011, monetary policies.
It also became clear overshot owing to market sentiment but although to a lesser extent than in 2010. that growth in the US had been more was more decisive in providing long term The principal objectives for which they resilient than feared and showed signs of liquidity for the banks, on cheaper terms were used were to reduce our effective accelerating towards the year end.
The than the febrile conditions in the gearing during the turbulent market result was a tentative return of interbank market offered.
A programme conditions seen during the autumn and confidence to equity markets and a was announced for banks to raise to moderate the extent of our recovery of part of the losses sustained additional equity to improve their significantly underweight position in during the third quarter.
resilience to losses and Governments in Japan.
Excluding cash balances held centrally by Witan and the unquoted investments.
The percentages are annualised where the inception date was before 2011.
13 Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Business Review continued in the FTSE 100, S&P Composite, Euro increased in 2011, from 6.5% to 9.8% of normal market circumstances, equity Stoxx 50 and Japanese equity market assets, principally through investments in exposure can be expected to be at least indices.
The Company takes full account the convertible bonds of two investment 80%, while gearing, as noted elsewhere, is of the underlying value of the futures trusts Electra Private Equity and managed within an overall maximum contracts in measuring its gearing.
The Edinburgh Dragon and by increasing our level of 20%.
value of the investments which are investment in quoted private equity Investment Managers traded on official exchanges is fully trusts.
At the year end, the investment As set out in the table on page 12, the marked to market every day.
companies held covered a number of portfolio consists of 11 separate external asset categories viewed as attractive, The underlying futures exposure varied mandates managed by different fund namely quoted Private Equity 3i Group, between -2% and 2% of assets, finishing management firms, in addition to the Electra Private Equity and Princess Private the year at 1.5% an investment in directly-held positions managed by Equity, distressed debt investment NB Nikkei index futures.
Distressed Debt Fund, UK domestic The use of equity index futures has a recovery Invista Foundation Property Each of the external managers is entitled number of benefits.
It enables Witan to Fund and Aberforth Geared Income to a base management fee, calculated increase or reduce its gearing at a known according to the value of the assets under Trust, specialist insurance Polar Capital and immediate index level, conferring Insurance fund and a specialist management, and or a performance fee, tactical flexibility.
It also provides a environmental fund Ludgate calculated according to investment means of adjusting the geographical asset Environmental Fund Limited.
These performance, relative to the benchmark allocation for example, by allocating amounted to 9.8% of Witans portfolio at applicable to the investment mandate.
In the year end, with the management of The fees for each of the segregated both cases, the use of index futures this portfolio being the responsibility of investment management agreements are enables the adjustments to be made the CEO.
subject to a cap in respect of each without interfering with the assigned accounting year.
Each agreement can be Portfolio diversification objectives for our investment managers, terminated on one months notice.
One In order to capture the changing which are to pick stocks that will grow in of the investment mandates is operated dynamics in the global economy and value over the medium to long term and via a fund vehicle, to simplify custody provide stability against problems within outperform their respective benchmarks.
individual countries, Witans portfolio is The operation of this investment area is well diversified across global stock The base management fee rates range the responsibility of the CEO, within markets and, importantly, across a range from nil to 0.9 per cent per annum and guidelines set by the Board.
As expected in a multithe performance fees range from nil to are reported to the Board as they occur, manager portfolio, individual manager 20 per cent per annum of the relevant with the CEO being accountable for the returns vary.
In 2011, 6 of the managers outperformance.
All the fees are payable financial results.
who were in place for the whole of the quarterly in arrears.
The performance fees year outperformed their respective are payable on a pro rata basis, after a Gearing management benchmarks, while 6 including the minimum initial period of one year.
Gearing was managed actively during the portfolio of direct holdings year.
Starting the year at 5.4%, it was The average aggregate base management underperformed.
This mixed relative increased following market setbacks to fee, weighted according to the value of performance, together with an increased average 8.3% during the first half and the funds under management, was 0.34% allocation to emerging and growth averaged 10.7% in the second half, as at 31 December 2011 end 2010: economies which performed poorly last ending the year at 10.5%.
On a similar basis, the average year and the effect of gearing during the from performance during 2011, given the performance fee is 12% of market falls meant that Witans net asset abrupt and severe market falls in the early outperformance of the relevant value total return of -10.9% was below part of August.
The Companys view benchmark, subject to capping of that of the benchmark -7%, despite remains that gearing should be used payments for any particular year.
As an having outperformed by 0.6% during the judiciously and can be an effective tool to illustration, if our managers uniformly first half of the year.
outperformed their benchmarks by 3% Witan is predominantly equity based but after base management fees, this would Directly held investments generate a performance fee of 0.37% of In 2010, the Company initiated a policy the remit allows investment in other of making direct investments in selected areas when considered appropriate, either net assets, giving total investment collective funds.
This portfolio was to enhance returns or to mitigate risk.
The actual 14 Annual Report 2011 fees payable will of course vary according of our global equity managers.
In the case steps beyond the welcome increase in both to the level of performance and the of Europe, our managers performance the dividend payout to address the gap variation in performance between was 1% behind that of the weak between the underlying business managers with higher or lower fees.
European index, after outperforming performance and that of the share price.
Witan takes care to ensure the during 2010.
Southeastern has a valueThe two convertible bond holdings in competitiveness of the fee rates it pays focused approach to stock selection, Electra Private Equity and Edinburgh which in aggregate have been reduced assigning an intrinsic value to companies Dragon Trust held up well during the and seeking to invest on wide discounts during 2011 and that where higher fees market volatility and both trade above to that value.
Their portfolio is highly are incurred they are linked to good their purchase prices in December 2010 concentrated and includes a range from performance, from which shareholders and January 2011 respectively.
They defensive non-cyclical growth to benefit.
have offered a running income as well as undervalued cyclical stocks and The Companys external investment downside protection relative to the restructuring plays.
Its performance was managers may use certain services which equity, while giving longer-term equity adversely affected by the abrupt change are paid for, or provided by, various participation should the underlying share in risk aversion from mid-year and, as our brokers.
In return, they may place prices overtake the conversion prices.
largest single portfolio, this exerted a business, including transactions relating material drag on Witans overall Japan is a market where we decided in to the Company, with those brokers.
They retain 2010 to cease using a specialist manager, confidence in their holdings and in the Manager Review leaving it to our global managers to past e. g. 2009 this confidence has been The table on page 13 shows the allocate according to the relative reflected in strong absolute and relative performance of the individual equity attractions of stock opportunities in the performance when market conditions managers for 2011 as well as since Japanese market.
The underweighting of have stabilised.
inception, compared with their respective that market, resulting from their stock benchmarks.
The two best performers decisions as well as our strategic view, has The portfolio of direct holdings, which been helpful, as the market during the year were Veritas appointed was increased during the year from 6.5% in 2010 as a Global equity manager and underperformed in 2011.
We increased to 9.8%, suffered from the derating of the Lindsell Train one of the two UK our Japanese exposure late in the year, holdings in listed private equity vehicles.
Both using equity index futures and the Although two holdings Electra Private achieved a positive return despite the purchase of a specialist Japanese Equity and Princess Private Equity have negative market trends.
They also investment trust but remain relatively delivered positive total returns in excess achieved the strongest relative lowly weighted.
of those on Witans portfolio as a whole performance against their allocated since purchase, they have fallen back Portfolio breakdown benchmarks, although four other from higher levels.
A third HarbourVest The sector breakdown and regional managers also outperformed their Global Private Equity was sold for an exposure for the aggregated portfolio is benchmarks but had negative returns for absolute and relative gain.
A point to note is that the year as a whole.
3i Group has been a significant the financials weighting is boosted by the disappointment so far.
Its business At the other end of the scale, our Asian investment companies held as specialist performance has been unexceptional in and Emerging markets managers had direct investments.
Excluding those we net asset value terms since we first some of the weakest absolute returns have been underweight in financial stocks.
purchased the shares in 2010 but the although Comgest outperformed their The top 50 holdings across the whole of price has fallen from a discount of Asian equity benchmark.
Emerging Witans portfolios are set out on page 19. approximately 10% to one of over 35%.
economies and the faster growing They represent 46.0% of Witans portfolio Although this is not unique in the economies of Asia were hard-hit by the 2010: 42.9%.
This highlights the specialist financials sector in recent down-turn in global confidence as well as substantial diversification provided by months, we believe it is not reflective of being affected by the tighter trend in our range of managers and global the performance of 3is portfolio of monetary policy linked to the geographical exposure.
We have therefore added to inflationary pressures in the first half.
using active managers is to outperform, the holding at the recent low levels as we Weak returns were also seen from Europe which requires the portfolio to differ believe that either a higher rating will be which was the weakest of the developed from the benchmark.
There is also a risk that fiscal prospects worldwide will improve during retrenchment in Europe leads to renewed the year from a weak and variable The table above shows the investments recession, with political reactions of starting level.
This depends partly on with the widest variation above and hostility to free trade and business.
Interwhether the corporate sector in below the weighting of the stocks in governmental disagreements could also developed economies becomes Witans benchmark.
Although stock lead to a break-up of the Euro, with sufficiently confident in the outlook to selection is not driven by the significance unpredictable short term ramifications.
increase capital investment and on of the stock in the index, the table gives a The likelihood of a renewed European whether emerging economies take steps snapshot of the top overweight and banking crisis currently appears lower to rebalance their growth towards underweight holdings on a look through than it did in autumn 2011 but recent greater reliance on domestic basis across our managers.
years have been a graveyard for optimists consumption rather than exports, Outlook on policy coherence in Europe.
helping to reduce the strains from global Economic prospects for 2012 remain trade imbalances.
Outside Europe, growth prospects appear challenging, as developed economies better than expected a few months ago.
Given the sensitivity of economies to oil attempt to reduce the debt burdens Economic activity has been better than prices, tensions in the Middle East remain accumulated over recent economic expected in the US, while emerging a key threat to growth.
The resulting headwind for economies, which have contributed a blockade of oil exports from the Arabian economic growth is likely to continue to disproportionate share of global growth Gulf may represent sabre-rattling more deliver weaker growth than the recent in the past 10 years, are emerging from a historical norm, generating periodic than a risk of sustained oil supply scares that the natural fluctuations of period of monetary restraint.
In contrast disruptions but a prolonged period of 16 Annual Report 2011 tension could keep oil prices high their areas of greatest competence has the and growth, geographical diversification, enough to create a renewed faltering in potential both to improve returns and to concentrated versus widely diversified the global recovery, much as the Arab reduce risk relative to using a single portfolios and secular growth versus Spring did in 2011. manager across the investment cyclical trends with the intention of waterfront.
smoothing out stylistic fashions and Recent years have seen repeated swings profiting from the managers ability to from concerns about inflation to fears of The Board and the executive team are outperform over time.
deflation and from worries about responsible for managing the portfolios recession to complacency about growth.
asset allocation, choosing a suitable range Our Current Managers 2012 seems likely to see a similar cycle, of managers to use their stock selection The tables on pages 12 and 13 give a with the start of the year burdened by skills to implement the strategy, summary of the range of styles amongst apprehension about global stagnation or designing appropriate incentives and our current investment managers, the recession.
Given the global shift towards monitoring performance against targets.
proportion of Witans portfolio they an easier monetary policy bias in recent manage and their performance over the Witan selects its managers from amongst months and the greater government past year and since appointment.
Further those whose processes, principles and focus on the risks to growth, equity information is given on pages 20 and 21 performance commend them as long markets may be positively surprised by regarding the managers history, the total term custodians of investors wealth.
We events in 2012, with some government amount of investments they manage and are seeking managers who can capture bond markets correspondingly vulnerable their investment approach.
the longer term growth rewards from if forecasts of deflation or economic equity investment by focusing on An Evolving Process calamity prove incorrect.
fundamental value rather than chasing Witans multi-manager approach has In this environment, we remain fully short term momentum.
This fits with a evolved in stages from its pre 2004 model invested with 10% gearing at the time of fundamental dictum of equity as a Company with a single manager.
writing but the lesson from recent years is investment, that whilst in the short term After the significant changes introduced to be watchful both to guard against risks markets are a voting machine affected in 2010, 2011 was a year of consolidation and to take advantage of opportunities.
by sentiment in the long term they are a in structural terms, occurring against a weighing machine driven by substance.
backdrop of disruptive global economic Witans Multi-Manager Approach and political events and unstable As referred to elsewhere in this report, Central to this approach is the idea of markets.
Our investment processes are Witan manages its portfolio using a balance.
Just as exposure to a single focused on continuing to adapt to multi-manager approach.
This was market or a small number of investments structural changes and themes in the adopted in 2004, in the belief that no can lead to volatile performance, so can single investment manager was likely to investing with a single manager or a global economy while being resilient excel in all asset classes over economic group of managers with the same against the shorter term influences of economic cycles and shifts in investor cycles or longer time periods.
Witans approach aims to seeking to employ managers to invest in balance different factors such as value sentiment.
