Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Appendix to the Directors Report Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 05 Business Review CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW B UILDING GREATER TRUST B ETWEEN SUPPLIER AND CUS TOMER deferring discretionary spending, strong result in 2010.
Throughout the 2011 was a tough year, both especially on new central heating systems.
challenges faced during the year, we for Centrica and our customers.
have demonstrated the resilience of the Upstream in the UK, the business But the strength of our integrated Centrica integrated business model.
In delivered higher pro ts.
This re ects good business and balance sheet addition, the total value of our commitments operational reliability from our assets and to secure gas for the UK now stands at means weve been able to take the effect of higher commodity prices, with more than 50 billion.
We can only shoulder a much improved performance from the the lead in helping customers responsibilities on this scale with the nuclear eet in particular.
However, market through these dif cult times, financial security provided by our growing conditions remained dif cult for our upstream asset base and a pro table as well as delivering growth gasred generation and gas storage downstream business.
and making the investments businesses.
In addition, the unexpected increase in upstream taxation announced STRATEGIC PRIORITIES AND on which Britains energy in March reduced our upstream earnings.
It also, unfortunately, came at a time when Health and safety is our first priority a Centrica faced very dif cult market the UK needs to offer a stable tax regime message reinforced through regular conditions in 2011.
Sharply rising wholesale if it is to attract the investment required to management communication, operational commodity prices in the first half of the meet the countrys future energy needs.
practice, corporate policy, procedures and year meant that the UK residential energy reward structures.
During the year, we In North America, we delivered signi cantly supply business had become loss making, further strengthened our procedures around higher operating pro ts, re ecting both the necessitating a signi cant increase in retail both customer safety and process safety operational improvements we have made tariffs in August.
Record mild weather, and achieved a 42% reduction in our lost and the contribution from acquisitions.
both in the Spring and in the Autumn, led time injury frequency rate to 0.25per Direct Energy provides a strong platform to a 21% reduction in average household 100,000 hours worked.
for growth, using our expertise in gas consumption and a 4% fall in average deregulated markets to add scale In these tough economic conditions, we electricity consumption.
As a result, the upstream and downstream, where remain focused on maximising the returns average domestic customer bill was some we see .
from our existing assets, while taking a 4% lower in 2011 than the year before, disciplined approach to investment.
We will despite the increase in unit prices.
The Despite the dif cult economic and political also maintain a healthy balance between squeeze on household disposable income backdrop, which resulted in the business upstream and downstream activities as has also put pressure on our residential incurring a number of exceptional charges, well as across generation types and services business, with customers we are pleased to have delivered further geographies.
Centrica remains, at its adjusted earnings growth, following a very heart, a customer facing business.
06 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business Review Upstream, we continue to focus on HONEST CONVERSATION 2011 INVESTMENT reliability, both in gas and oil production During the year, the energy supply sector We invested 1.6 billion of capital in 2011 and in power generation: and we are faced increased regulatory and political across the Group, mainly in upstream gas making good progress on our investment scrutiny, as well as uncertainty and oil, in power generation and in North programme, deploying our expertise to surrounding Ofgems proposals for retail America.
We have also already announced bring new projects on line.
We led the way in taking a further 1.4 billion of acquisitions which widely recognised for our expertise across measures to help build customer trust by are expected to complete in 2012. the energy value chain and have entered making the purchase of gas and electricity Upstream, expenditure included into strategic partnerships with other simpler, more transparent and fairer for investment in our Ensign and York leading players in their eld in gas and consumers.
We have simpli ed our tariffs projects and our ongoing exploration oil, in offshore wind and in nuclear.
In and have also written to each of our programme.
Construction of the Lincs December we announced an intention customers, inviting them to check that offshore wind farm is making good to increase our upstream gas and oil they are on the most appropriate tariff.
progress and work is ongoing on new production by 50% to 75 million barrels of We are setting out the facts about energy nuclear, prior to a final investment oil equivalent mmboe per annum and to prices, providing each customer with a decision.
In North America, we have treble our offshore wind capacity, retaining breakdown on their bill of the actual costs made signi cant progress in growing the investment options in new nuclear, biomass, of providing the energy they consume.
We scale of the business both upstream and new build CCGT and gas storage.
have also made sure that our most downstream, increasing our gas and vulnerable customers receive the 120 Downstream, the priority is to maintain liquid reserves by 14% and adding over Warm Home Discount, with the widest the ef ciency of the business and to 750,000 customers in our core growth eligibility criteria of any major supplier.
bene t fully from our scale and brand, markets, Texas and the US North East.
while maintaining high levels of customer However, there is still much to be done Building the geographic diversity of our service.
In North America, we continue before consumer con dence can be fully asset portfolio is a key priority, and an toincrease the scale of the business, restored.
This will mean being much increasing proportion of our investment through organic growth and through clearer about the cost of producing and now falls outside the UK.
In November, acquisitions in key competitive markets.
providing energy to the customers home, we announced a new 10-year supply We are making good progress towards the rising cost of green levies, the impact contract with Statoil and the acquisition our goal of doubling the pro tability of of growing international demand for gas of a package of Norwegian gas and oil thebusiness by 2014, seeking further and the pro ts the industry makes.
This marked a signi cant step opportunities for growth where we see us the industry, the Government and change in the scale of our business, both value, both upstream and downstream.
the Regulator have a vital role to play in in terms of production volumes and fostering an honest debate about energy, Given the need to remain competitive development opportunities, as well as with affordability now a key issue for in all our divisions, we are undergoing forging a long-term working relationship ourcustomers.
a Group-wide process to sharpen the with one of the leading players in the business for the bene t of our customers In January 2012, we were the first of Norwegian market.
Already in 2012, and our shareholders.
We expect to the major energy suppliers to implement we have announced further upstream deliver 500 million of cost savings over a price reduction, with an immediate investments to increase our share in the the next two years, allowing us to continue 5% cut in our standard electricity tariff.
Norwegian Statfjord eld and acquire a to invest for further growth within the Nonetheless, the longer-term trend in package of UK North Sea assets from existing cost base.
The programme to wholesale energy prices and nonTotal, providing further gas reserves for identify ef ciencies is already well under commodity costs remains upwards.
way, and we expect to realise around half That is why the work we are doing to Centrica is now seen to ll a key role on of these savings in 2012.
As part of these help customers take control of their the global energy stage, enjoying close measures, we have taken out 2,300 roles energy usage is so important including working relationships with major partners: across the business and implemented a free loft or cavity wall insulation, a free in LNG, in nuclear, in offshore wind and pay freeze across much of the Group, home energy survey and leading the in upstream gas and oil.
At a time when including the Board: however, we remain way on the installation of smart meters many British companies are reluctant to committed to investing in the skills and for all ourcustomers.
invest because of economic uncertainty, the people we need to achieve our we are deploying our capital to generate growthambitions.
growth and returns for shareholders.
FUTURE INVESTMENT Signi cant investment decisions lie ahead, both for the UK and for Centrica.
It is vital that the Government provides the clarity and assurance that will be needed if the industry is to step up and deliver the massive investment an estimated 200 billion in total by 2020 that the country requires to secure its energy future and build a low carbon powerindustry.
Following the publication of the UK Governments White Paper on Electricity Market Reform, there remains much detail to be resolved to ensure the right framework for investment.
We also look Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Appendix to the Directors Report Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 07 Business Review WE ARE MAKING GOOD PROGRESS ON OURCAPITAL INVESTMENT PROGRAMME, ANDEXPECT TO SPEND A FURTHER 1.4BILLION ON ORGANIC INVESTMENT IN2012, WITH AROUND HALF IN THE UPSTREAM GASANDOILBUSINESS to the Government to explain the begin to see a contribution from recent 1.4billion already committed for the importance of these investments to acquisitions as we integrate them into Statoil assets, the additional stake in our portfolio.
Overall, we plan to deliver the country, balancing energy security, Statfjord and the package of UK North improved year-on-year adjusted earnings environmental goals and crucially, Sea assets from Total.
In the coming year, growth in 2012, subject to the usual affordability, for this generation and we expect the Ensign, Seven Seas, Rhyl variables of weather patterns and for generations to come.
and Atla elds all to produce first gas and commodity price movements, although our Lincs offshore wind farm to generate The Regulator too has a vital role to play we continue to face some of the same first power.
We also expect to make a final in ensuring that the UK offers a stable headwinds as in 2011, in particular the investment decision on the development and attractive investment climate, both in effects of continued economic pressure of the Cygnus gas eld towards the middle the upstream and the downstream.
The on household and business budgets.
of 2012, with a decision on the Race Bank proposed retail market reforms need to offshore wind project expected around the Downstream in the UK, we expect further encourage investment in propositions for end of the year, in each case subject to progress in residential services, together customers and smart meter technologies appropriate returns.
On new nuclear, a with a positive contribution from our new to improve energy ef ciency, reduce final investment decision on Hinkley Point energy activities.
In the highly competitive complexity and increase customer choice.
C is targeted for the end of 2012, although market for residential energy supply, the The combination of strong cash ows much remains to be achieved before this outcome, as ever, depends on wholesale and an attractive range of investment decision can be taken and the economics prices and the weather.
In our Upstream opportunities is a key attribute of the must prove to be sound.
In gas storage, our UK business, we will progressively bene t Centrica business model with options Caythorpe project remains on hold and we from the higher wholesale commodity to invest across the energy value chain continue to assess the Baird project.
price environment, although the outlook and in different geographies, to deepen for gasred generation remains weak In summary, the Centrica business model our customer relationships and secure the and market conditions for new gas storage remains resilient, underpinned by strong energy requirements of the Group for the projects remain challenging.
We will also cash ows and an attractive pipeline of future.
We will only deploy capital where bene t from the recently acquired gas and investment projects.
The business is well we see a strong strategic t, together with oil assets in the Norwegian and UK sectors placed for the long term and we will attractive returns commensurate with the of the North Sea.
In North America, we continue to improve the service offering for risks being undertaken.
expect to see the positive effect of organic our customers, both in the UK and North improvements in the business, together OUTLOOK America.
We will also drive further cost with a contribution from recent acquisitions, As we look ahead, the external savings across the Group to enhance our both upstream and downstream.
competitiveness, and deliver increasing we continue to see customer losses in However, the past year has shown our value through the ef cient deployment of the Ontario energy supply business, as business model to be robust, delivering capital, in order to continue to enhance the regulatory environment has become year-on-year growth in a very dif cult returns for shareholders.
Against this backdrop, we are taking positive action We are making good progress on our to sharpen our activities, with Groupcapital investment programme, and expect wide initiatives already in progress to to spend a further 1.4 billion on organic reduce costs and maintain our competitive investment in 2012, with around half Sam Laidlaw edge.
We are successfully bringing new expected to be in the upstream gas and Chief Executive investment projects on-stream, and will oil business.
This is in addition to the 23 February 2012 08 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business Review WE SOURCE IT WE GENERATE IT by nding and producing new gas through our combined cycle gas reserves from the seas around the turbine CCGT power stations in the 1 2 UK, our natural gas assets in North UK and North America and from an America and a unique contract increasing number of wind farms withQatar offshore from the UK in the North and East Irish Seas Centrica Energy Business Review on pg 18 Direct Energy Business Review on pg 23 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW A BUSINESS MODEL BUILT FOR THE ENERGY DEMANDS OF THE 21ST CENTURY W E TRADE IT W E SUPPLY IT in the UK, North America and Europe, to millions of residential and business as part of our strategy to maintain customers in the UK and North America.
5 6 energy security ensuring there is We are leading the way with smart meter always suf cient gas and power for technology: bringing an end to estimated our customers warm and well lit bills, providing accurate, real-time information homes and businesses on energy consumption and costs British Gas Business Review on pg 14 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Appendix to the Directors Report Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 09 Business Review W E PROCESS IT W E STORE IT to ensure high quality gas enters in the Rough natural gas eld: for the transmission system from our own customers, other utilities, 3 4 onshore gas terminals in Easington gas producers and gas traders.
Easington takes gas facility, off the east coast of the UK, from our Rough storage facility and represents over 70% of the countrys the Langeled pipeline from Norway total gas storage capacity Centrica Storage Business Review on pg 21 The energy chain demonstrates how Centrica plays a major part in every aspect of energy from sourcing it to saving it.
Each of the eight links in the energy chain is critical to our success and helps us to deliver our vision to be the leading integrated energy company in our chosen markets.
W E SERVICE IT WE SAVE IT providing peace of mind, delivered by offering an increasing number of to millions of residential and business innovative low carbon, energy ef ciency 7 8 customers in the UK and North products and services: installing solar PV America with our pioneering products panels, insulation, ground and air source for central heating, boiler and cooling heating and solar canopies to charge the maintenance and breakdown cover first fully-electric cars in the UK Corporate Responsibility on pg 29 10 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business Review CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW D ELIVERING OUR VISION OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES HOW WERE DELIVERING GROW BRITISH GAS OUR VISION TO BE THE Despite a reduction in operating pro t, British LEADING INTEGRATED Gas delivered a solid financial performance in 2011 in challenging market conditions, ENERGY COMPANY IN underpinned by our scale, our service and OUR CHOSEN MARKETS our drive for innovation.
Despite the current economic challenges, operational improvements and investment for the next phase of growth leave us well placed for the long term.
DELIVER VALUE FROM OUR GROWING UPSTREAM BUSINESS Centrica Energy delivered a signi cant increase in operating pro t in 2011.
Our focus will remain on growing our upstream gas and oil business, through acquisition and organic development, and on expanding the scale of our offshore windoperations.
BUILD AN INTEGRATED NORTHAMERICAN BUSINESS Direct Energys operating pro t in 2011 bene ted from operational improvements and cost ef ciencies, and the impact of acquisitions.
The business outlook remains positive and we expect continued growth across the business, both upstream and downstream.
DRIVE SUPERIOR FINANCIALRETURNS In tough economic conditions, our priority is to 50 BN maximise returns from our existing assets, while maintaining a disciplined approach to investment.
The total value of our By streamlining our operations to create an commitments to secure gas improved, cost-ef cient organisation, we expect for the UK now stands at to deliver 500 million of cost savings over the more than 50 billion next two years, allowing us to continue to invest Including share of joint ventures and associates before interest for further growth within the existing cost base.
and taxation, and before depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment from Strategic Investments and exceptional items and certain re-measurements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Appendix to the Directors Report Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 11 Business Review DELIVERING AGAINST OUR PRIORITIES Improved delivery for customers Services continued to see growth with Nectar, Sainsburys and online.
4 star rating from Consumer Focus.
First to reduce residential energy Further progress in new markets tariffs in 2012, regaining the including social housing, insulation, cheapest electricity position.
Operating pro t in British Gas residential services increased by 10% to 264 million with increased operating margins, despite the challenging economic environment.
Signed a new 10-year supply contract with Statoil.
Deploying distinctive capabilities enabled a production replacement First delivery of LNG to Isle of Grain ratio of 112% re ecting upgrades under Qatargas contract.
Nuclear output up 16% and wind In December, we announced an North Sea reserve additions output up 21%.
intention to increase our upstream gas through agreements to acquire and oil production by 50% to 75mmboe 175mmboe of reserves in Norway a year and to treble our offshore and the UK continental shelf.
Increased scale in residential Integration of Clockwork completed.
energy with Gateway, First Choice Acquired insurance capability Power and Vectren Retail in the US through Home Warranty acquisitions plus organic of America HWA.
We delivered signi cantly higher Improved performance upstream operating pro ts in North America, Further volume growth with 14% increase in proven and re ecting both the operational and sustained margins in improvements we have made and probable reserves.
Direct Energy provides a strong platform for future growth.
Strong returns from existing assets.
Healthy balance between upstream and downstream.
Maintained ef ciency and service levels downstream leadership Strengthened the hedge, adding through scale and brand.
Strong cash ows and an attractive Disciplined approach to Customer remained at the heart range of investment opportunities is investment, aligned with of everything we do.
a key attribute of our business model.
We will only deploy capital where we see a strong strategic t, together with attractive returns commensurate to the risks being undertaken.
