Business Review Delivering our strategy Our strategy is to be a focused, integrated, innovation-driven, global, prescription-based biopharmaceutical business We need the following resources, skills and capabilities to deliver our strategy: An R&D function with world class productivity.
See page 30 Cost effective sales and marketing activities focused on our customers and patients needs.
See page 36 A reliable supply and manufacturing operation that ensures our medicines are where they need to be when they are needed.
See page 38 A talented and diverse workforce with the right capabilities operating in a high performance culture.
See page 40 These resources need to be underpinned by: A well-functioning system of IP rights.
See page 34 High quality and flexible support services, including high value information technology and systems.
See page 39 Employees acting with integrity.
See page 40 A commitment to acting responsibly and to the sustainable development of our business.
See page 47 And at the heart of what we do is the need to: Deliver value through innovation.
See page 12 Find solutions through collaboration.
See page 26 Earn trust through integrity.
See page 44 Business Review Many of our products are subject to litigation.
Information about material legal proceedings This section includes information that fulfils the requirements of a business review under the can be found in Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page 184.
The Strategy and Performance, Corporate Governance, Development Pipeline, Shareholder Information and Corporate Information sections from pages 15, 99, 199, References to prevalence of disease have been derived from a variety of sources and are 203 and 208, respectively, are incorporated into this section.
not intended to be indicative of the current market or any potential market for AstraZenecas pharmaceutical products since, among other things, there may be no correlation between the Details of the more significant risks to AstraZeneca are set out in the Principal risks and prevalence of a disease and the number of individuals who are treated for such a disease.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Delivering our strategy 29
