Our key aim over the next two to three years is to drive occupancy and hence revenue in the stores.
The average net rental achieved last year across the 51 wholly owned stores was 26.82 per sq ft per annum the average rent in London is higher at 28.76 per sq ft per annum.
The stores in lease-up 43,156 achieved a higher average rental 28.22 per sq ft than the 32 established stores 26.32 per sq ft, reflecting the greater London Occupied sq ft per weighting of the lease-up stores.
established store Our key aim over the next two to three years is to drive occupancy and hence revenue in the stores.
During the downturn we increased the level of promotional offers in the business, resulting in more muted rental growth over the past couple of years.
As the stores lease-up, and the number of vacant rooms in particular sizes reduce, our pricing model will automatically reduce the level of discounts offered, leading to an increase in net achieved rents.
We have a 1.33m rolling programme of price increases to existing storage customers, Revenue per in most cases providing an annual increase in storage rents of 6%.
established store Over the last seven years, average net storage rental growth has been over 4% per annum.
Store Operations The Big Yellow store model is well established.
The typical store has 60,000 sq ft of net lettable storage area and takes some 3 to 5 years to achieve 85% occupancy.
Some stores may take longer than this given they opened shortly prior to the downturn.
The average room 0.86m size occupied in the portfolio is currently 64 sq ft. EBITDA per The store is open seven days a week and is initially run by three established store staff, adding a part time member of staff once the store occupancy justifies the need for the extra administrative and sales workload.
Given that the operating costs of these assets are relatively fixed, larger stores in bigger urban conurbations, particularly London, drive higher revenues and higher operating margins.
The table below illustrates the average key metrics across the 32 established store portfolio for the year ended 31 March 2011: Store capacity 60,656 sq ft Closing sq ft occupied per store 43,156 sq ft Revenue per store 1,330,000 EBITDA per store 860,000 EBITDA margin 65% The average store size in the UK market is approximately 40,000 sq ft according to the Self Storage Association.
Clearly the upside from filling our larger than average sized stores is in our view only possible in large metropolitan markets, where self storage drivers from domestic and business customers are highest.
23 The split between business and domestic customers for the 51 wholly owned stores is as follows: Sq ft No of % of occupied at customers storage 31 March at 31 March revenue for 2011 % 2011 % the year Business customers 668,000 35% 5,730 19% 27% Domestic customers 1,247,000 65% 24,430 81% 73% Total 1,915,000 100% 30,160 100% 100% The net rent per sq ft for domestic customers is approximately 45% Business Review continued higher than for business customers, reflecting the smaller average unit size occupied for domestic customers.
Of the customers moving into the business in the last year, our surveys indicate approximately 57% are linked to the housing For the 32 established stores, the average split between business market, of which 19% are customers renting storage space whilst and domestic customers is shown in the table below.
moving within the rental sector, and 38% moving within the owner Domestic Business Total occupied sector.
We have seen a small increase in demand during % of occupied space 65% 35% 100% the year from customers within the owner occupied sector, Sq ft occupied per store consistent with the slowly improving picture for mortgage approvals at 31 March 28,051 15,105 43,156 and housing transactions.
During the last year 11% of our customers Revenue per store for the year 971,000 359,000 1,330,000 who moved in took storage space as a spare room for lifestyle purposes and approximately 23% of our customers used the product The drive to improve store operating standards and consistency because some event has occurred in their lives generating the need across the portfolio remains a key focus for the Group.
Excellent for storage: they may be moving abroad for a job, have inherited customer service is at the heart of our business objectives, as a furniture, are getting married or divorced, are students who need satisfied customer is our best marketing tool.
We measure customer storage during the holidays, or homeowners developing into their service standards through a programme of mystery shoppers and lofts or basements.
The balance of 9% of our customer demand in the ex-customer surveys and have introduced online customer reviews year came from businesses.
during the year, which give an average customer service score of We have a dedicated national accounts team for business customers 4.7 out of 5.
We have in place a team of Area Managers who have who wish to occupy space in multiple stores.
These accounts are on average worked for Big Yellow for eight years.
They develop and billed and managed centrally.
We have grown the team during the support the stores to drive the growth of the business.
Adrian Lee, year, so we now have three full time members of staff working on Operations Director, is the Board member responsible for dealing with growing and managing our national account customers.
The national all customer issues.
accounts team can arrange storage at short notice at any location for Our core proposition remains a high quality product, competitively our customers.
priced, with excellent customer service, providing value for money to our Business customers typically stay longer than domestic customers, customers.
Our stores offer a headline opening promotion of 50% off for and also on average occupy larger rooms.
Whilst only representing up to the first 8 weeks, and we continue to manage pricing dynamically, 9% of new customers during the year, businesses represent 19% of taking account of customer demand and local competition.
our overall customer numbers, occupying 35% of the space in our The store bonus structure rewards occupancy growth, sales growth stores.
The average room size occupied by business customers is and cost control through setting quarterly targets based on 117 sq ft, against 51 sq ft for domestic customers.
occupancy and store profitability, including the contribution from Our business customers range across a number of industry types, ancillary sales of insurance and packing materials.
Information on such as retailers, professional service companies, hospitality bonus build up is circulated monthly and stores are consulted in companies and importers exporters.
These businesses store stock, preparing their own targets and budgets each quarter, leading to documents, equipment, or promotional materials all requiring a improved visibility, a better understanding of sales lines and control convenient flexible solution to their storage, either to get started or of operating costs.
to free up more expensive space.
We believe that as a customer-facing branded business it is The demand from business customers, who typically occupy larger paramount to maintain the quality of our estate and customer rooms, has been relatively robust, as they seek a cost effective, offering.
We therefore continue to invest in a rolling programme of flexible solution to their storage requirements, preferring self storage store makeovers, preventative maintenance, store cleaning and the to the commitment of a long lease.
repair and replacement of essential equipment, such as lifts and gates.
The ongoing annual expenditure is approximately 30,000 per store, which is included within the income statement in cost of sales.
This excludes makeovers, which typically take place every four years, at a cost of approximately 15,000 to 20,000 per store.
24 We have continued to manage the ten freehold stores for HSBC Bank Search Engines plc branded as Armadillo Self Storage alongside our Big Yellow stores Search Engines continue to be the most important acquisition tool using the same operating model.
The management contract expires for us, accounting for nearly 70% of all traffic to the website.
More in February 2014 and our key objective within the Armadillo portfolio investment has also been made in search engine optimisation remains driving occupancy, revenue and cash flow.
During the year SEO techniques both on and off the site.
This has enabled us Armadillo acquired customers in Stoke and Hull from a self storage to maintain the number one position for the popular search terms operation which was closing down and transferred these customers storage and self storage in the organic listings on Google.
We will to their own stores.
The retention rate of the transferred customers continue with this strategy targeting a wider range of relevant search to date has been encouraging.
All stores have also been optimised within Googles local search Sales and Marketing functionality Google Places, allowing the relevant local Big Yellow This year our strategy has continued to focus on leveraging the Big stores to appear on a web users search.
Our annual You Gov survey puts our national brand awareness at three times the level of our nearest competitor.
We Social Media have maintained brand awareness of 80% in London and 47% outside Social media continues to be complementary to our existing of London.
Although Big Yellow leads the industry in terms of brand marketing channels and we maintain a significant presence on all preference, there is still an opportunity to improve our brand the major social media sites.
awareness, in particular in regional cities outside London where we Over the past year the strategy for Facebook was to build a volume have recently opened stores.
Source YouGov: August 2010 of interested fans which has now reached over 24,000.
Facebook allows us to keep engaged with our target audiences, keeping the Online Innovation brand front of mind and to gather customer feedback.
In addition, The website and our e-commerce proposition continue to grow in the Big Yellow You Tube channel is now being used to showcase our strength, with online prospects now accounting for 80% of all sales domestic and business store tours and customer testimonials.
leads where details are first recorded on our operating system.
Telephone is the first point of contact for 11% of prospects and walkWe have also developed a substantial amount of online blog content in enquiries, where we have had no previous contact with a prospect, aimed at anyone considering self storage.
Advice and tips for represent 9%.
packing, storage and fide-cluttering are published weekly on the site and posted through our Facebook and Twitter channels.
This provides The Big Yellow website continues to evolve, and we are constantly useful and engaging content for visitors.
improving the user journey and prospect conversion throughout the site.
Driving online traffic This year we have developed and launched a dedicated business This year, we have continued online display advertising on sites section of the website, communicating the benefits of Big Yellow Self visited by our target audiences.
This activity performs both a direct Storage to this target audience.
It is supported by more in-depth response and branding role.
Efficiencies in all online spend are information, online videos demonstrating the business services continuing into 2011 12, ensuring return on investment is available and testimonials from existing business customers.
maximised from all our different online traffic sources.
Online targeting opportunities are now more sophisticated enabling Online Customer Reviews us to target our core target audiences more effectively.
Online Consistent with our strategy of putting the customer at the heart of marketing budgets will remain fluid and be directed towards the our business, our online customer reviews continue to generate realmedia with the best return on investment.
time feedback from customers as well as providing positive word of mouth to prospective customers.
These customer reviews are now Sales Promotion being pulled into Googles local search results and continue to be a We have continued our sales promotion offer throughout the year powerful marketing asset to us.
of 50% off your first 8 weeks storage across all stores, coupled with The reviews indicate we are consistently delivering a very high a Price Promise for comparable local competition.
These two offers, standard of service: managed alongside dynamic pricing, will remain our pricing policy Over 4,300 reviews have been published for the year ahead.
55% have awarded a score of 5 out of 5 Our overall rating is 4.5 out of 5 Budget Our average customer service score is 4.7 out of 5 During the year the Group spent approximately 2.8 million 4.5% of revenue on marketing, up from 2.6 million in the previous year.
In our view, real time customer reviews which have been We have increased the budget for the year ended 31 March 2012 to independently and externally obtained are much more persuasive 2.9 million with a focus on driving our revenue through delivering to prospects than scripted testimonials.
more prospects to the website.
25 We continue to recognise the importance of communication and consultation with an annual spring conference, regular formal and informal meetings and quarterly newsletters and weekly operational updates.
In addition, the Directors and senior management spend a significant amount of time in the stores and are accessible to employees at all levels.
An annual Employee Attitude Survey provides management with key feedback and guidance as to where to focus their attention to further improve the working environment.
We had 301 full-time, part-time and casual employees in the business at the year end 2010: 287 employees and recruiting and retaining the right calibre people remains critical to the continued success of the Company.
Business Review continued We promote the individual development of staff through training and regular performance appraisals and delivered just over 830 days People training to employees in the last year, equating to an average of At Big Yellow we aim to provide a lively, fun and enjoyable working approximately 2.8 days training per employee.
In the stores, nearly environment, without losing our commitment to delivering the very two thirds of the managerial posts have been filled by internal best standards of customer service.
We encourage a culture of partnership within the business and Property and Development believe in staff participating in corporate performance through bonus During the year our property team has focussed on obtaining the schemes and share incentives.
Many employees benefit from an remaining self storage planning consents, building out selected sites HMRC approved Sharesave Scheme, which provides an opportunity within our development pipeline, and selling surplus land held in our to invest in the future success of Big Yellow at a discount to the balance sheet.
prevailing share price at the date of each invitation.
Our stakeholder We believe the continuing difficulties in the banking and capital pension scheme has been taken up by over two thirds of employees markets make access to capital required to fund growth more eligible to join and a voucher awards scheme is used extensively difficult and will slow down the growth in self storage store openings across the business to recognise and reward our staffs efforts and achievements.
We believe that we are in a relatively strong position with our freehold property assets, with the proven ability to We aim to promote employee wellbeing through a range of flexible access more funding when the opportunity presents itself.
working options which include flexitime, staggered hours, home working and sabbaticals.
We provide a comprehensive range of We now have a portfolio of 70 stores and sites of which 63 are medical support and advice though our occupational health providers currently open and a further 6 have planning consents, with planning and have arranged corporate gym membership on a national basis, negotiations ongoing at our site in central Manchester.
as well as a Cycle to Work Scheme.
Development Pipeline There are a further six freehold sites with planning for Big Yellow stores including Stockport within Big Yellow Limited Partnership to be developed.
We also have a 4.5 acre development site in central Manchester where we are in planning discussions for a mixed use scheme incorporating a new Big Yellow store.
The status of the development pipeline is summarised in the table below: Wholly owned sites Location Status Anticipated capacity New Cross, South East London Prominent location on Lewisham Under construction, 60,000 sq ft Way A20, London planned opening April 2012 Chiswick, West London On the A4, high visibility from Under construction, 75,000 sq ft M4 flyover planned opening May 2012 Gypsy Corner, West London Highly visible site on A40 Consent granted 70,000 sq ft in Acton, West London Enfield, North London Prominent site on the A10 Consent granted 60,000 sq ft Great Cambridge Road, London Guildford Central Prime location in centre of Guildford Consent granted 56,000 sq ft on Woodbridge Meadows Manchester Central Prime location on Water Street Planning under negotiation 50,000 sq ft in central Manchester to 70,000 sq ft Site within BYLP Stockport Prominent location visible from Under construction, 60,000 sq ft M60, Greater Manchester planned opening September 2011 26 We expect to open two stores in the current financial year.
Our wholly Financing Objectives owned store at Eltham, on the junction roundabout of the South Big Yellows financing policy is to fund its current needs through a Circular and the A20, opened in April: the Partnership store at mix of debt, equity and cash flow to allow us to build out the existing Stockport will open in September 2011. portfolio and achieve our strategic growth objectives, which we believe improve returns for shareholders.
The Group manages the construction and fit-out of its stores in-house, as we believe it provides both better control and quality, and we have We aim to ensure that there are sufficient medium term facilities in an excellent record of building stores on time and within budget.
The place to finance our committed development programme, secured total construction spend in the year was 19.6 million, of which against the freehold portfolio, with debt serviced by our strong 11.2 million was in the wholly owned Group.
Corporate Social Responsibility Risk Management The Board employs a Corporate Social Responsibility Manager, who The management of risk is a fundamental part of how we have reports to the Board through the Operations Director.
Our detailed controlled the development of Big Yellow since its formation in Corporate Social Responsibility report is on page 49.
Our policy on September 1998, and the opening of our first purpose-built store in Corporate Social Responsibility is set out on our website Richmond, London in May 1999.
The principal areas of risk that the bigyellow.
Group faces are considered below.
Our CSR programme for 2011 committed to focus on our most Self Storage Market Risk significant environmental challenge of energy efficiency and carbon The UK economy has continued its slow recovery from the recession.
In order to achieve these objectives we: The demand for self storage has slowed since the liquidity crisis increased the roll-out of our store lighting energy efficiency began in August 2007, however we believe that the structural need re-lamping programme.
41% of the estate is now converted: for self storage remains.
We saw an increase in demand in the reduced store carbon intensity emissions by 2.1%: financial year, with move-ins in our wholly owned portfolio up 14% on reduced Construction Fit Out carbon emissions by 63.5%: the prior year.
increased solar panel electricity generation by 20.6%: Self storage is a relatively immature market in the UK compared to increased renewable energy generation by 11.5%: and other self storage markets such as the United States and Australia, generated 255 MWh of solar electricity and 398 MWh of and we believe has further opportunity for growth.
Awareness of self cumulative renewable energy since 2008. storage and how it can be used by domestic and business customers is relatively low throughout the UK, although higher in London.
The Business Objectives rate of growth of branded self storage on main roads in good Big Yellow is the leading self storage brand in the UK YouGov Survey, locations has historically been limited by the difficulty of acquiring August 2010, with national brand awareness of three times that of sites at affordable prices and obtaining planning consent.
The lack of our nearest competitor.
The Group continues to invest in developing availability of credit within the economy has further reduced this rate quality assets at the premium end of the self storage market and to of growth since the start of the downturn.
build on our brand leadership nationally.
We intend to measure our progress by continuing to commission quantitative research each Our performance during the downturn has been relatively resilient, year.
We believe that the resilience of our performance is due to a combination of factors including: Our main strategic objective is to grow the occupancy in our stores from the current level of 59.3% to 85% over the medium term.
We will a prime portfolio of freehold self storage properties: achieve this through: a firm focus on London and the South East, which has proved more resilient during the downturn: an unwavering focus on customer service: the strength of operational and sales management: excellent operational and financial management: continuing innovation to deliver the highest levels of customer innovative and creative marketing: service: recruiting and retaining quality people in the business: the UKs leading self storage brand, with high public awareness: an entrepreneurial and passionate culture, with accessible and senior management encouraging innovation and dialogue strong cash flow generation and high operating margins.
throughout all levels of the business: and having stores located in visible, convenient and accessible Big Yellow only invests in prime storage locations, developing high locations.
quality self storage centres in the large urban conurbations where the drivers in the self storage market are at their strongest and the Our other key objectives are: barriers to competition are at their highest.
We have focussed the business on London and the South East, and other large metropolitan the selective build out of freehold stores in major urban cities, where we believe the drivers for and resilience of the product conurbations throughout the UK, but focussed principally on are strongest.
London: and mortgage financing secured against our prime freehold portfolio, and our Partnership with Pramerica.
27 Business Review continued Big Yellows demand profile in the year ended We have a large current storage customer base of approximately 31 March 2011 33,000 spread across the portfolio of open stores and many thousands more who have used Big Yellow over the years.
In any Other month, customers move in and out at the margin resulting in 6% Business storage 9% Student storage 6% changes in occupancy.
Despite the current economic environment, this has remained a seasonal business and Travelling 5% Moving rental typically we see growth over the spring and the summer months, sector with the seasonally weaker periods being the winter months.
Decluttering 19% 11% The performance in terms of occupancy, revenue and EBITDA of our stores can be seen from the Portfolio Summary on page 40.
Home improvements At 31 March 2011 the average length of stay for existing 6% customers was 18.8 months: an increase from 18.6 months in the prior year.
For the stores that have been open more than five Moving owned sector years, the average length of stay increases to 21.9 months.
For 38% all customers, including those who have moved out of the business, the average length of stay has remained at 8.5 months.
This translates into a loyal customer base.
In our 32 established store portfolio, 38% of our customers have been Proportion of current customers in the established storing with us for over three years.
A further 15% of customers stores by length of stay in these stores have been in the business for between one and three years.
38% That said, we have seen a small decline in the financial year of 3 years 40% or more the length of stay of customers who moved out during the year.
36% This fell to 7.6 months from 8.1 months for the year to 31 March 2010.
This is consistent with the improving demand from 15% customers using the product for relatively short periods of time, 1-3 years 17% linked in the main to house moves and home improvements.
19% Property Risk Less 47% Big Yellows management has significant experience in the than 1 43% year property industry generated over many years and in particular 45% in acquiring property on main roads in high profile locations and 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% obtaining planning consents.
We do take planning risk where necessary, although the more March 2011 March 2010 March 2009 distressed property market will in our view provide more opportunity to buy sites on a conditional basis.
The planning process remains difficult with some planning consents taking in excess of twelve months to achieve, although given we have planning consent on all bar one site, the risk to the Group has reduced significantly from prior years.
28 We manage the construction of our properties very tightly.
The Real Estate Investment Trust REIT Risk building of each site is handled through a design and build contract, The Group converted to a REIT in January 2007.
The Group is therefore with the fit out project managed in-house using an established exposed to potential tax penalties or loss of its REIT status by failing professional team of external advisors and sub-contractors who have to comply with the REIT legislation.
The Group has internal monitoring worked with us for many years to our Big Yellow specification.
procedures in place to ensure that the appropriate rules and legislation are complied with.
To date all REIT regulations have been complied with.
Treasury Risk The Group borrows in sterling at floating rates of interest and uses Human Resources Risk swaps to hedge its interest rate exposure.
The Group has derivatives Our staff are key to our success and we are exposed to a risk of high in place to ensure at least 50% of our bank borrowings are hedged, staff turnover, and a risk of the loss of key personnel.
We have developed the balance is left floating paying margin over LIBOR.
At 31 March a professional, lively and enjoyable working environment and believe 2011, we had fixed rate swaps in place over 69% of our outstanding our success stems from attracting and retaining the right people.
bank borrowings, including hedging of at least 70% of the investment We encourage all our staff to build on their skills through appropriate tranche of our senior debt facility, as required by our loan training and regular performance reviews.
We believe in an accessible documentation.
The hedging expires in September 2015, two years and open culture and everyone at all levels is encouraged to review beyond the expiry of the facility, thus providing interest rate risk and challenge accepted norms, so as to contribute to the performance mitigation when the facility is refinanced.
The Group does not hedge of the Group.
account its interest rate derivatives, all movements in fair value are Reputational Risk taken through the income statement.
The Group regularly monitors Big Yellows reputation with all its stakeholders is something we its counterparty risk.
value highly and will always look to protect and enhance.
We aim to The Group monitors compliance with its banking covenants closely.
communicate clearly with our customers, suppliers, local authorities and During the year it complied with all its covenants, and is forecast to communities, employees and shareholders and to listen to and take do so for the foreseeable future.
Big Yellows intranet and website are important Our portfolio is relatively high yielding and we believe a flexible avenues of communication for both employees and shareholders.
approach to our hedging is appropriate for our strategic aims, given our conservative balance sheet.
Security Risk The safety and security of our customers and stores remains a key Interest Cover and Balance Sheet Risk priority.
To achieve this we invest in state of the art access control The Group reviews its current and forecast projections of cash flow, systems, individual room alarms, digital CCTV systems, intruder and borrowing and interest cover as part of its monthly management fire alarm systems and the remote monitoring of all our stores out of accounts.
In addition, an analysis of the impact of significant our trading hours.
transactions is carried out regularly, as well as a sensitivity analysis We have implemented customer security procedures in line with assuming movements in interest rates and occupancy in the stores advice from the Police and continue to work with the regulatory on gearing and interest cover.
authorities on issues of security, reviewing our operational procedures regularly.
The importance of security and the need for Credit Risk vigilance is communicated to all store staff and reinforced through Our customers are required to pay a deposit when they start to rent training and routine operational procedures.
We have continued to a self storage room and are also required to pay in advance for their run courses for all our staff to enhance the awareness and four-weekly storage charges.
The Group is therefore not exposed to a effectiveness of our procedures in relation to security.
77% of our current customers pay by direct debit: however of new customers moving into the business in the last year 84% have paid by direct debit.
Businesses often prefer to pay by cheque or BACS.
During the recession, we did not see an increase in the levels of bad debts and arrears.
Our bad debt expense represents 0.12% of revenue in the year 2010: 0.17% of revenue.
Taxation Risk The Group is exposed to changes in the tax regime affecting the cost of corporation tax, VAT and Stamp Duty Land Tax SDLT.
We regularly monitor proposed and actual changes in legislation with the help of our professional advisors, through direct liaison with HMRC, and through trade bodies to understand and, if possible, mitigate or benefit from their impact.
29 Our lasting commitment to CSR has been established through green building design and investment.
Our future is in sustainably managed operations.
