Report of the Directors Group business review Floorspace under management Chart 25 In this Group business review we set 2 2.79 million m A 1.91 Retail Portfolio out how we are working to shape the B B 0.88 London offices future of property.
A This review looks at actions we took during the year to strengthen our business, culture and commitments.
We work with a wide range of businesses and organisations, from occupiers of our properties to joint venture partners, suppliers, investors and financial institutions.
While the latest promotions, offers and events in their centre.
Now called what we do affects a range of individuals and organisations, here we Customer Service DNA, we have rolled out the programme to seven of focus on four particularly important groups our customers, our our centres.
In addition to updating employees on centre news, we have employees, our community and our environment.
This is consistent used workshops to define the points of difference at each centre so our with the way we report on Corporate Responsibility.
employees can help bring the benets alive, helping to improve the shopping experience for consumers and further supporting our retail Our business model occupiers.
We plan to roll out the programme to smaller centres We are the largest Real Estate Investment Trust REIT in the UK during 2011. by market capitalisation.
We own, develop and manage commercial In London, we have reorganised the way our teams operate property through two business divisions the Retail Portfolio and the to further enhance how we support and serve occupiers.
We now have London Portfolio.
dedicated occupier teams based in Victoria Cardinal Place, SW1, Mid-town New Street Square, EC4 and West End and City One New Our customers Change, EC4.
Each team draws together individuals from financial Across the Group, Government is our largest customer, accounting for management and property management, which means occupiers get 7.8% of the rental income on our combined portfolio.
We expect the Governments share of our rental income to reduce over the next few access to a seamless service.
We also have an open door policy, with meeting rooms available so occupiers can come in at any time to discuss years as they vacate older buildings in Victoria which we are proposing to redevelop into new and attractive locations for businesses.
This initiative recognises the value of Our second largest customer is Accor Hotels, representing 4.5% face-to-face meetings and the initial response from occupiers has been of the combined portfolio, and our largest retail customer is Sainsburys, extremely positive.
Overall, we have seen a reduction in the number of retailers facing insolvency, but market conditions remain challenging for Customer satisfaction some retailers.
We have continued to help our retail customers nd new This year we again carried out a Real Service survey of retailers at and better ways to address tough commercial conditions.
Our Clearlet shopping centres to understand their perception of our service levels.
leases are helping to simplify leasing activity, and our Brand Empire We had good scores which improved on those achieved last year.
venture is helping to improve occupier mix at our centres by bringing Some of the key gures included: new retailers to the UK.
A new initiative has been the introduction of Overall satisfaction as a retailer up at 4.07 4.04 last year service charge presentations to retailers during the budgeting process.
Communication up at 4.05 3.95 This enables us to discuss our plans before budgets are nalised, which Responsiveness up at 4.21 3.95 provides retailers with an opportunity to query and inuence the final Willingness to recommend up at 98% 97% costs and related matters.
These sessions have been very well received.
One immediate change we have put into place is a new way to distribute service charge booklets, which used to be posted out on a CD.
They are We also achieved some very strong customer satisfaction scores now made available through a dedicated website and retailers can in London.
Here, some of the key gures included: access them when they need to.
Overall satisfaction up at 83.6% 74.8% last year During the year we renamed and extended our On Brand Communication up at 84.7% 76.0% training scheme.
We originally developed this to ensure that all of our Responsiveness up at 80.3% 72.2% employees at the White Rose shopping centre in Leeds could talk about Understanding the needs of the business up at 89.6% 72.8% Willingness to recommend marginally down at 80% 81%.
Top 5 UK REITs Table 24 Our people Mkt cap Our objective is to attract, retain and develop the brightest and best Rank Company name m people in our industry, enabling them to maximise their potential and 1 Land Securities Group PLC 5,647.7 2 British Land Co. PLC 4,893.9 make the greatest possible contribution to the Company.
We place great 3 Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC 3,290.1 emphasis on the development of talent, we work to provide excellent 4 Hammerson PLC 3,160.4 career opportunities and career development, we encourage open 5 Segro PLC 2,384.1 dialogue at all levels, and we support any employee who volunteers to Source: Datastream, as at 31 March 2011. provide additional support to local communities.
Land Securities Annual Report 2011 39 Group business review Top 12 occupiers Table 26 Once again, our annual employee engagement survey saw a good overall response rate of 82%.
Key findings from the survey % of 1 Group rent included: 2 Central Government 7.8 96% of respondents said I enjoy my job Accor Hotels 4.5 96% of respondents said In my team, we deliver excellence Royal Bank of Scotland 2.9 96% of respondents said Overall, I am proud to work for Deloitte 2.6 Land Securities Sainsburys 2.0 95% of respondents said My manager treats me with respect Arcadia Group 1.7 95% of respondents said I am confident the Group will meet K&L Gates 1.6 its objectives.
Dixons Retail 1.5 Bank of New York Mellon 1.5 Next 1.4 In addition to the benets we provide to our own employees, we also Boots 1.4 have a major effect on those employed by suppliers and contractors.
By Taylor Wessing 1.3 starting development early in 2010 we have helped to create many jobs Percentage of total portfolio 30.2 in the construction sector.
This, in turn, will lead to further employment 1.
Includes share of joint venture properties.
opportunities once our new schemes have opened.
Rent from Central Government excluding Queen Annes Gate, SW1 is 3.7%.
suppliers to ensure their people are appropriately trained and we expect all of our partners to uphold our high standards for health and safety, and our values.
We were also one of the first companies to sign up to the 10:10 campaign for carbon emission reductions.
We also donated Our communities one day of free advertising at Piccadilly Lights to the campaign.
We Our aspiration is that our buildings should be part of not apart from continue to focus on achieving BREEAM ratings in our developments the area and community in which they are located.
We want to be and on achieving a 30% reduction in emissions by 2020 in each of the more than a good neighbour: by investing in well-integrated and lasting areas of ofces, shopping centres and retail parks.
To help achieve this, employment, education and enterprise opportunities as well as we are working with occupiers in multi-tenanted buildings to create buildings we aim to help make our communities brighter, stronger shared agreements on emission reductions.
We are also working closely and more sustainable.
with a number of universities on research and education initiatives.
With each major development or asset management initiative, we take the time to consult with all interested parties well before the first Corporate Responsibility brick is laid.
We also engage with local authorities, community agencies How we support our customers, our employees, our community and our and voluntary groups to help us to deliver effective employment, environment helps set Land Securities apart.
We are proud of our record education and enterprise opportunities.
These range from running on Corporate Responsibility and take our commitments very seriously.
educational workshops and helping people get back into employment To read more about our approach to Corporate Responsibility and our to offering space in our shopping centres so that charities can promote performance this year, please go to p 62 to 67. their work.
Land Securities people like to do their bit too, whether its donating or raising money or volunteering their time.
In the process, they act as ambassadors for our business, and we help their efforts through the Land Securities Foundation.
This provides support for employees who volunteer, awards bursaries towards equipment for local communities, and runs our Give As You Earn scheme to encourage charitable donations from employees.
Our environment Our brief from the Chief Executive is to be the most sustainable property company in Britain.
No other property developer sets such tough targets.
No other developer has pioneered so many environmental initiatives.
We want to lead the way on sustainability, and be regarded as a key partner to local and national Government.
We were the first company in our sector to have an Energy Manager and first to have an Environment Manager.
We were the first to publish a standard environment report, and the only property company to take part in the Voluntary Emissions Trading Scheme.
We were the first to get the Carbon Trust Standard, and first to qualify for Environmental Management Standard 14001.
For the last four years we have also been at the top end of Dow Joness global super sector leaders table.
During the year we became a Planet Positive business.
This accreditation acknowledges the seriousness with which we approach sustainability issues, particularly the need to reduce carbon emissions 40 Land Securities Annual Report 2011
