SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 business review Our strategy London and the West End The objective of our strategy is to produce sustainable growth London is one of the worlds principal global cities.
It is the largest in net rental income from our investments over the long term.
city in Europe in terms of population and gross domestic product, This underpins the long term growth in the value of our property and is the fifth largest world city measured by GDP.
It is widely assets and is delivered to our shareholders through rising considered to be the worlds largest financial centre.
for Shaftesbury, Londons unique features and attractions bring more international visitors than any other city in the world.
We achieve this through our focus of investing exclusively in Londons West End, a location which in our experience has Within London, the West End offers an unrivalled diversity of demonstrated great resilience over many years.
It includes historic sites of world renown and has West End, we concentrate on central locations which have a unique reputation for culture in its galleries, museums and enduring appeal, vibrancy and creativity, and which continue facilities for performing arts, with 38 theatres in the West End to attract huge numbers of visitors from across the world.
In addition, the number and variety of its shops and restaurants is unmatched by any other city.
We invest in buildings which provide considerable management flexibility and in a mix of uses which reduce the long term impact The combination of these features attracts huge numbers of of obsolescence.
domestic and overseas visitors, which are an essential element of the local economy and bring great prosperity to the area.
Evolution of our strategy Recent research has indicated that some 200 million visits are made annually to the West End, of which 25% are from overseas We have followed a consistent strategy since the early 1990s, and 21% are from the rest of the UK outside the South East.
investing only in the heart of Londons West End.
In the economic Londons own population of eight million and the twenty million recession of 1990-1993, with its severe impact on real estate, we people who are easily able to visit for the day have always been realised that the unique features of the West End provided much important elements of overall visitor numbers.
greater long term resilience in tenant demand, rental growth and capital values than other locations either in London or the Deliberately, all our investments are close to Londons principal UK generally.
This arose from our experience with our then visitor attractions, and are concentrated in well-known locations.
modest holdings in Chinatown, where tenant demand and We work closely with a number of organisations and tenants to rental levels were sustained and capital values declined much support and co-ordinate projects and campaigns which promote less than in the wider market during that very challenging period.
London as a visitor destination to a global audience.
Since we adopted this strategy, our progress in delivering We focus on and foster distinctive villages, such as Carnaby sustained rental growth and out-performance in capital values and Chinatown.
In Covent Garden we have concentrated our underlines the exceptional qualities of our central locations.
investments in the districts of Seven Dials, Coliseum, Opera Quarter and St Martins Courtyard adjacent to Seven Dials.
Our wholly owned portfolio, entirely located in the West End, In addition, we are investing in Charlotte Street, a small but now extends to 12 acres of freeholds, across over 500 buildings, long established restaurant district, and more recently in Soho.
ft. of commercial and residential Here, in Berwick Street and neighbouring streets, rents are space.
Shops, restaurants, bars and leisure space now account modest and we see potential both to create clusters of for 71% of our current income, whilst offices provide 19% and ownerships and to instigate changes over the longer term.
The Longmartin joint venture, in which we have a 50% interest, owns a 1.9 acre island site in Covent Garden London has an extensive public transport system, which is with 269,000 sq.
essential for the movement of huge numbers of people into and around this populous city, and particularly the West End.
Our cumulative investment in our portfolio, including acquisitions All of our villages are located close to the West Ends principal and refurbishment expenditure, amounts to 969 million and is underground railway stations of Oxford Circus, Piccadilly now valued at almost 1.7 billion.
Circus, Tottenham Court Road and Leicester Square.
The transport network in London is now receiving substantial investment to further increase its capacity.
Improvements to underground lines are underway to enable trains to run at increased frequencies.
Importantly the Crossrail project is now underway, with the initial stages including the rebuilding and extension of the stations at Tottenham Court Road and Bond Street to create major interchanges close to our villages.
Once fully operational, Crossrail will increase Londons rail transport capacity by 10% and bring some 1.5 million more residents within 45 minutes of the West End and the City.
Although construction of such major schemes brings lengthy disruption, they are already a catalyst for regeneration and new investment in London and the West End, creating new links and bringing greater capacity and accessibility to the whole of Londons transport network.
12 12 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 business review Investment and management strategy Sustainability Our strategy is to establish clusters of ownerships in areas and Wherever possible we seek to preserve the fabric of existing in properties which have, or have potential for, predominantly buildings in order to extend their useful lives and improve retail and leisure uses.
These uses are an essential aspect of the their efficiency.
We believe this approach minimises the visitor-based local economy and, for the landlord, give rise to environmental impact of our business.
All our buildings are in Conservation Areas and many are listed, Using our extensive and detailed local knowledge gained over reflecting their collective grouping as well as their special many years, we identify areas which, although well located, are architectural and historic features.
The average age of our neglected and lack a cohesive strategy for uses and tenant mix buildings is over 150 years and some have parts which date back to attract footfall and tenant demand.
We acquire buildings which to the seventeenth century.
The historic nature of our buildings, are under-utilised or dilapidated.
The condition of these areas and the long established street patterns in our locations, most and buildings is reflected in initial rental levels which we consider of which were laid out by the early eighteenth century, combine are modest but offer the potential for us to create long term growth.
to give our areas a lively and cosmopolitan atmosphere.
We encourage a wide variety of suitable uses to ensure the The concentration of our holdings allows us to implement a economic viability of our buildings is improved and sustained.
consistent management strategy across each area and provides us with great flexibility to accommodate a variety of uses Our experience is that traditional London terraced buildings, appealing to a broad range of occupiers.
which form the majority of our portfolio, offer much greater flexibility than more modern properties.
Our refurbishment We achieve our objective of creating sustainable rental growth projects improve buildings to meet the requirements of todays from a low base through our innovative management approach of: occupiers, introducing contemporary uses and enhanced Implementing a comprehensive long term tenant mix strategy environmental performance.
for the dominant retail and leisure aspects of the area, creating distinctive destinations to bring greater footfall and prosperity: Community engagement Wherever possible, maximising retail and leisure uses We work closely with Westminster City Council and Camden within the lower floors of individual buildings.
We introduce Council, within whose jurisdictions all our properties are located, alternative uses for upper floors where appropriate, to avoid to improve the public realm in and around our villages.
the cyclicality and obsolescence of offices: We promote and contribute to the costs of up-grading streets, pedestrianisation and improving street lighting and public Restoring the fabric of often dilapidated buildings, respecting safety.
In our experience, by focussing on the needs of pedestrians, their traditional features, but extending their useful lives to the schemes which we support bring greater footfall and security.
meet the requirements of modern occupiers: They increase the time visitors spend in our villages, benefitting Working with local authorities and community stakeholders to the local community as a whole and bringing greater prosperity improve the public environment in and around our locations, to our commercial tenants.
to create safe and welcoming areas for tenants, their customers We recognise the importance of working with other stakeholders and employees, and local residents.
in the local community to support both charities based in our Our knowledge of the West End and our locations has been areas and initiatives associated with social issues, community accumulated over many years.
We take a consistent and long projects and the arts.
term view in the management of our holdings.
In our experience Details of our sustainability and community engagement our holistic approach to fostering and advancing all aspects of policies and activities are set out in Corporate Responsibility on the character of our villages enhances their appeal, bringing pages 37 to 41. greater footfall and demand from potential tenants.
All our investments are within a short walk of our office, so Risks associated with our strategy we are always close by to respond quickly to opportunities and Our investments are concentrated in the centre of Londons problems.
We have regular and open contact with our tenants, West End, so our prosperity and prospects are inextricably the local authorities and stakeholders in the local community linked to and dependent upon this small geographic area, its which provides us with important insights into their needs and local economy, visitor numbers and the policies of the authorities how best to tailor our plans and work together to achieve our which administer it.
The key risks identified by the Board inherent in property investment generally and specific to our strategy are set out in greater detail on pages 34 to 35.
13 13 x-iT PRoducTS of c. P. coMPAny & STone iSLAnd MuJi AMeRicAn APPAReL cRAzy BeAR coco fide MeR Lucy in diSGuiSe BenJA BAnGkok TABLeS oRLA kieLy fRed PeRRy The BLue PoSTS TeRMinAL d foRnATA PALM couRT BRASSeRie cAMBRidGe TheATRe weSc TAPAS BRindiSA LiTTLe wu ceST ici ALBAM donMAR wARehouSe exPeRiMenTAL ReckLeSS RecoRdS Rebecca Bloom PReTTy BALLeRinAS MiShkinS kATyA kATyA ShehuRinA chRoMe AcceSSoRieS SofRA SPud MdS MinT eASTPAk The kinGLy cLuB 14 14 15 15 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 business review Portfolio summary Market value % of Current gross m portfolio income m Wholly owned portfolio Carnaby 563.5 34% 26.9 Covent Garden 481.1 29% 22.7 Chinatown 401.1 24% 19.2 Soho 73.8 4% 2.9 Charlotte Street 38.5 2% 1.9 1,558.0 93% 73.6 Longmartin joint venture 120.5 7% 3.9 Total portfolio 1,678.5 100% 77.5 Shaftesbury Groups share Wholly owned portfolio Longmartin joint venture % of % of Area current gross Area current gross Number sq.
ft. which provide 34% of our Virtually all our buildings have a mix of uses.
Lower floors current gross income.
contain our most valuable uses of retail, restaurant or leisure whilst upper floors are either offices or residential or a As with our shops, we provide catering units in shell form.
Consequently, catering leases are often granted for terms of 25 years as long periods of tenure create an asset in which the Our wholly owned portfolio includes 317 shops extending to tenant is able to invest.
It is rare that we are able to secure 393,000 sq.
ft. which provide 37% of our current gross income.
vacant possession of restaurants or bars.
A combination of The average unexpired term of our shop leases is five years.
substantial investment by the tenant and restrictive planning We have a wide range of shop sizes and rents across the wholly policies for restaurants in the locations we have chosen to invest owned portfolio.
At 30 September 2011, 75 large shops i. e. those in make these leases valuable assets for the tenant as well as with a rental income over 100,000 per annum accounted for the landlord in our areas.
approximately 60% of our retail income at that date, whilst 242 smaller units contributed 40%.
These smaller shops complement When we do secure vacant possession of restaurants there is the larger units we have, adding to the mix and variety offered considerable demand from both experienced and new operators by our villages.
seeking to launch innovative concepts.
We let our retail accommodation in shell form.
Tenants are Offices within the wholly owned portfolio extend to 412,000 sq.
ft. responsible for fitting out units at their own cost.
We usually and produce 19% of our current gross income.
Offices are an integral offer a rent free period during their fit-out and start-up period part of our mixed use villages but we are conscious both of the but make no financial contribution to their costs.
relatively small size of our units, the cyclicality of office demand and the inevitable costs of obsolescence borne by us as landlord.
Our shop leases are structured to allow us to manage the mix of retailers within our locations.
We do this to foster the identity and In Carnaby, we have our relatively larger average size 1,500 sq.
ft., character of each area and ensure that our villages respond to more modern offices, which are occupied mainly by tenants in changing tastes and spending patterns.
As part of this strategy creative and fashion industries.
These businesses are particularly we encourage new retailers and concepts, through a combination attracted to the area by the concentration of similar businesses, of short and flexible leases.
and its proximity to many of their key contacts and customers.
In contrast, in Chinatown, our offices are much smaller average size 600 sq.
ft. but are essential to the local Far Eastern business community.
16 16 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 business review We have 392 apartments within our wholly owned portfolio, Our share of Longmartins capital expenditure, which this year extending to 264,000 sq.
ft. which produce 10% of our current amounted to 6.9 million, related principally to costs to complete gross income.
Over many years we have pursued a policy of the St Martins Courtyard scheme.
conversion of our smaller offices to residential, particularly those Our portfolio is dominated by retail and leisure uses, where we where it is not viable to refurbish them to standards expected provide space in shell form and the tenant is responsible for the by modern commercial occupiers.
costs of fitting out and obsolescence.
Consequently the capital There is good demand for residential accommodation in our expenditure we bear is modest in relation to the overall size and villages.
In our experience demand for apartments, rents and value of our portfolio.
In the wholly owned portfolio, capital occupancy levels in our locations are much less cyclical than for expenditure this year amounted to only 0.8% of its Market Value.
We fit out our apartments to a stylish but durable standard, Occupancy levels in the wholly owned portfolio have remained so their repair and renewal costs are usually low.
We are confident high throughout the year and tenant retention has been good.
of continuing good demand and rental growth over the long term.
New lettings and renewals of commercial leases totalled 4.9 million Other than in special situations, we generally let rather than sell this year, reflecting an overall level of activity similar to last year.
Although often we could realise their high capital The ERV of commercial space in the wholly owned portfolio held values by sale, in our view this would inhibit the management for or under refurbishment at the year end amounted to 1.0 million, flexibility we require to maximise the long term value of our equivalent to 1.3% of commercial ERV.
Of this, 0.5 million related buildings and villages.
ft. of offices in our scheme at 36 39 Carnaby Street, Longmartins portfolio comprises 23 shops, extending to 69,000 which will be completed in December 2011. sq.
ft. eight restaurants totalling 43,000 sq.
ft. Demand for all uses and across all of our locations has been of offices.
They are located in and around St Martins Courtyard, strong throughout the year and remains so.
Consequently the a mixed use scheme which was completed during the year.
level of vacancies has remained low and the total rental value In addition, Longmartins holdings include 75 apartments of available space has not exceeded 3% of total commercial ERV.
ft. At the year end the rental value of available vacant commercial space amounted to 2.2 million, representing 2.9% of the ERV of Portfolio activity during the year the commercial element of the wholly owned portfolio.
The The availability of suitable new investments in our prosperous letting of the 9,000 sq.
ft. of retail space in our scheme at 36 39 areas remains limited.
There is usually considerable competition Carnaby Street, which accounted for almost 1.0 million of this when properties are offered in the market from a variety of potential total, was completed in November 2011. bidders, often financed with substantial equity rather than debt.
At the year end only five of our 392 apartments were vacant and During the year, we acquired properties totalling 64.9 million ready to let, reflecting the good level of occupancy we have in Covent Garden, Soho, Chinatown and Charlotte Street.
A further 23 units, with an ERV of 0.6 Our acquisitions included fourteen restaurants and bars, million, were under construction.
ft. of offices and eighteen apartments.
Construction of St Martins Courtyard in the Longmartin joint Capital expenditure on the Groups portfolio over the year totalled venture was completed during the year and the scheme is now 19.2 million.
Of this 12.3 million arose in the wholly owned virtually fully let.
At the year end, only two shops with an ERV of portfolio and included 4.1 million in connection with our scheme 0.2 million remained to be let within the scheme, of which one at 36 39 Carnaby Street.
Other schemes included extending retail was under offer.
ft. of offices and restaurant space, creation of new apartments, refurbishing with an ERV of 0.5 million were under refurbishment.
offices, and contributions to public realm improvements across our villages.
Vacant commercial space at 30 September 2011 wholly owned portfolio Held for or under Restaurants % of refurbishment Shops and leisure Offices Total total ERV Estimated rental value - million 0.1 0.1 0.8 1.0 1.3% Area - 000 sq.
ft. 22 5 8 35 Number of units 15 4 17 17 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 business review CARNABY CARNABY IS THE LARGEST SINGLE VILLAGE IN OUR WHOLLY OWNED PORTFOLIO, REPRESENTING 34% BY VALUE.
OUR HOLDINGS, WHICH EXTEND ACROSS TWELVE STREETS, INCLUDE 126 SHOPS, 38 RESTAURANTS, CAFES, BARS AND CLUBS, 233,000 SQ.
FT. OF OFFICES AND 69 APARTMENTS.
Statistics Area % of current sq.
ft. gross Number 000 income Shops 126 172 50% Valuation 563.5 million Percentage of portfolio 34% Restaurants, cafes and leisure 38 80 13% Acquisitions during the year Offices 233 31% Capital expenditure during the year 6.8 million Capital value return 9.7% Residential 69 46 6% Carnaby is the largest single village in our wholly owned We have applied for planning consent for the second phase of portfolio, representing 34% by value.
Our holdings, which our 36 39 Carnaby Street scheme.
This project will involve the extend across twelve streets, include 126 shops, 38 restaurants, relocation of a restaurant from Fouberts Place to a new 6,500 sq.
ft. of offices and 69 apartments.
ft. unit to Kingly Street, which will be replaced by 8,500 sq.
In addition it will provide 7,000 sq.
ft. of offices and Carnaby is a world famous destination with an international twelve apartments on the upper floors.
Subject to receiving reputation for youth fashion.
Retail space accounts for 50% of the planning consent we expect that the scheme will commence villages current gross income.
Carnaby Street, the spine of in late 2012. the village, with its larger and more valuable shops, accounts for 69% of this income.
The pedestrianisation and repaving of Kingly Street was completed earlier this year.
As we expected, the improved environment is The success of the area reflects our long-established strategy bringing greater footfall and attracting new operators to this of actively managing tenant mix to maintain its distinctive focus, principally restaurant street.
The resurfacing of Ganton Street so that it constantly adapts and evolves to meet the rapidly west of Carnaby Street, a popular restaurant and bar location, changing tastes of its fashion-conscious customers.
We are also discussing improvements to the always seeking opportunities to introduce new retailers and eastern part of Ganton Street with Westminster City Council.
concepts and the wide variety and sizes of units we are able to offer makes this possible.
There has been good demand for offices in Carnaby this year.
Here, around 26% by floor area of offices is occupied by firms in Capital expenditure during the year totalled 6.8 million, the creative industries of publishing, advertising and films and which included 4.1 million in respect of our scheme at 36 39 22% by fashion-related businesses.
ft. of offices ERV 0.7 million were vacant, of which 16,000, At 30 September 2011 the only two vacant shops in Carnaby sq.
ft. was held for or under refurbishment.
The three floors of were under construction in our scheme at 36 39 Carnaby Street.
offices under construction at our scheme at 36 39 Carnaby Street In November 2011 we announced the letting of these two units totalling 9,500 sq.
ft. which have a total ERV of 0.5 million, will at a combined rent of 965,000. be available by December 2011 and already we are seeing good interest.
We have considerable unsatisfied demand for larger retail units, so we are advancing schemes to create bigger shops through changes of use and reconfiguration of buildings.
We have now received planning consent for parts of Lasenby House, which has an extensive frontage on Little Marlborough Street, to change the lower floors from offices to 5,000 sq.
ft. of retail space enabling us to extend our existing small shops which front Fouberts Place.
18 18 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 business review COVENT GARDEN OUR WHOLLY OWNED HOLDINGS IN COVENT GARDEN, IN THE DISTRICTS OF SEVEN DIALS, COLISEUM AND THE OPERA QUARTER, REPRESENT 29% BY VALUE OF OUR PORTFOLIO.
IN ADDITION, OUR 50% INTEREST IN THE LONGMARTIN JOINT VENTURES HOLDINGS, CENTRED ON ST MARTINS COURTYARD, REPRESENTS 7% BY VALUE OF OUR PORTFOLIO.
Statistics Wholly owned Area % of current sq.
ft. gross Number 000 income Shops 103 130 38% Valuation 481.1 million Percentage of portfolio 29% Restaurants, cafes and leisure 82 154 32% Acquisitions during the year 25.4 million Offices 103 15% Capital expenditure during the year 2.9 million Capital value return 7.1% Residential 162 116 15% Area % of current Longmartin joint venture sq.
ft. gross Number 000 income Shops 23 69 47% Valuation 120.5 million Percentage of portfolio 7% Restaurants, cafes and leisure 8 43 22% Acquisitions during the year Offices 102 7% Capital expenditure during the year 6.9 million Residential 75 55 24% Capital value return 5.9% Shaftesbury Groups share Shaftesbury Group has a 50% interest of the above Our wholly owned holdings in covent garden, in the districts of The final phase of Longmartins St Martins Courtyard project Seven Dials, Coliseum and the Opera Quarter, represent 29% by was completed in April 2011.
The scheme, which is fully let value of our portfolio.
in addition, our 50% interest in the longmartin other than two small shops, now has a working and residential joint ventures holdings, centred on st martins courtyard, represents population of around 850.
Other projects in adjacent buildings 7% by value of our portfolio.
Totalling 36%, these interests make are now in hand to refurbish 10,000 sq.
ft. of offices, to create Covent Garden our largest investment location.
a new small shop on Long Acre and to commence a rolling programme of improvements to a block of twelve apartments Our wholly owned portfolio includes 103 shops, 82 restaurants fronting Shelton Street.
ft. of offices and 162 apartments.
We are working with other owners to strengthen Covent Gardens Covent Garden has an atmosphere distinct from the rest of the appeal as a renowned shopping and leisure destination.
Its historic street patterns and buildings and wide mix welcome the changes being introduced in and around the Piazza of uses and attractions, give it an often bohemian feel.
It is home in Covent Garden, which complement our nearby holdings.
to half of the West Ends theatres and also has a large and flourishing residential community.
Our strategy is to foster and encourage this diversity and eclectic character.
We have increased our ownership in Covent Garden this year, with purchases totalling 25.4 million.
They included four restaurants, four shops together with offices totalling 10,000 sq.
ft. where we have identified opportunities to implement changes of use.
19 19 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 business review CHINATOWN OUR HOLDINGS IN CHINATOWN REPRESENT 24% BY VALUE OF OUR PORTFOLIO.
THE 68 RESTAURANTS WE HAVE IN THIS VILLAGE PRODUCE 63% OF ITS CURRENT GROSS INCOME.
ft. gross Number 000 income Shops 60 58 23% Valuation 401.1 million Percentage of portfolio 24% Restaurants, cafes and leisure 68 196 63% Acquisitions during the year 18.5 million Offices 43 7% Capital expenditure during the year 0.6 million Capital value return 4.7% Residential 86 61 7% Our holdings in Chinatown represent 24% by value of our There are several important projects close to Chinatown which portfolio.
the 68 restaurants we have in this village produce are bringing long term benefits to the area as a whole: 63% of its current gross income.
During the year a major new high quality hotel opened at the Chinatown is unique in its concentration of restaurants and its junction of Wardour Street and Coventry Street, replacing the central location, close to Piccadilly Circus and the theatres and vacant former Swiss Centre: cinemas in Shaftesbury Avenue and Leicester Square.
Our Leicester Square is undergoing an extensive refurbishment by holdings are at the heart of the West Ends leisure economy Westminster City Council at a cost of 15 million.
This scheme which is notable for its bustling late night culture.
Restaurateurs will enhance this important West End landmark and also are attracted both by the long hours of trading as well as the provide permanent infrastructure for hosting film premieres: large numbers of visitors every day of the week.
In 2012 the Hippodrome, on the corner of Charing Cross Road Over 50 years this district has become ever more popular with and Leicester Square will re-open as a major new leisure and Far Eastern businesses.
Today its restaurants offer cuisine from entertainment venue.
many regions of China as well as from countries across South All of these projects, together with our own plans for East Asia.
We actively encourage this diversity as it improves improvements to adjacent streets, will greatly enhance the choice and quality.
public environment and draw yet more visitors to this important Our shops and offices in Chinatown are almost entirely part of West End.
occupied by East Asian businesses.
Many of our apartments are occupied by those who work in the late night economy and who appreciate living close by.
Purchases during the year totalled 18.5 million and included five restaurants and a shop.
Unusually one of the restaurants was acquired with vacant possession.
It was quickly pre-let whilst we were carrying out repairs to this listed building.
20 20 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 business review SOHO OUR HOLDINGS ACROSS OUR SOHO VILLAGE, WHICH WE HAVE BEEN ASSEMBLING SINCE 2008, NOW REPRESENT 4% OF OUR PORTFOLIO.
OUR INVESTMENTS WERE INITIALLY CENTRED ON BERWICK STREET BUT WE HAVE NOW WIDENED OUR INTEREST TO INCLUDE NEARBY STREETS.
ft. gross Number 000 income Shops 24 25 22% Valuation 73.8 million Percentage of portfolio 4% Restaurants, cafes and leisure 11 24 33% Acquisitions during the year 16.6 million Offices 24 23% Capital expenditure during the year 1.9 million Capital value return 3.8% Residential 43 27 22% Our holdings across our Soho village, which we have been We have acquired more properties during the year at a cost of assembling since 2008, now represent 4% of our portfolio.
16.6 million including five shops and three restaurants.
As our our investments were initially centred on Berwick Street but ownership increases throughout Berwick Street we are we have now widened our interest to include nearby streets.
implementing a programme of refurbishments along with a cohesive strategy to retain and enhance the traditional mix of Berwick Street itself is situated in the heart of Soho and is often uses in this area.
referred to as Sohos Local High Street.
It attracts good footfall despite a generally dilapidated environment, compounded by The most dilapidated buildings, which are in and close by the empty buildings, and the decline in its once busy market.
southern end of Berwick Street, are mainly in public ownership.
Ownerships and tenant mix have been fragmented for many We welcome the investment by others in these large buildings years and as a consequence rental levels are low.
We aim to and in the adjoining public realm, which needs to be contribute to the revival of the street through our management regenerated if the area as a whole is to return to long term strategies that have been successful elsewhere in the West End.
At the north end of the street the new Crossrail interchange now under construction at Tottenham Court Road, with an entrance on nearby Dean Street, should be a catalyst for regeneration.
21 21 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 business review CHARLOTTE STREET OUR HOLDINGS IN AND AROUND THE SOUTHERN END OF CHARLOTTE STREET REPRESENT 2% BY VALUE OF OUR PORTFOLIO.
ft. gross Number 000 income Shops 4 8 5% Valuation 38.5 million Percentage of portfolio 2% Restaurants, cafes and leisure 13 29 57% Acquisitions during the year 4.4 million Offices 9 17% Capital expenditure during the year 0.2 million Capital value return 8.3% Residential 32 14 21% Our holdings in and around the southern end of Charlotte Street Already a lively commercial and residential district, Charlotte represent 2% by value of our portfolio.
Street is close to several important projects which will over time bring even more footfall.
These include the residential-led This geographically small and close-knit neighbourhood has a development of the former Middlesex Hospital, the concentration of restaurants and a cosmopolitan atmosphere.
redevelopment of the nearby Royal Mail sorting office as well as For several years we were outbid when properties became the significant regeneration being planned around the enlarged available but recently more properties have come to the market Tottenham Court Road station.
Acquisitions this year, which totalled 4.4 million, included two restaurants and a shop.
Although this is the smallest of our villages, we remain committed to further investment in this vibrant district.
22 22 ciRQue du SoiR LeonGS LeGend PReTTy GReen VieTnAMeSe ReSTAuRAnT MoTheR MASh fiReTRAP Mnini ST John hoTeL william dunbar The coVenT GARden AcAdeMy of fLoweRS cARTe BLAnche euPhoRiuM BAkeRy Mw BuffeT cAneLA oneiLLS zeBRAno MennuLA STRAdA The MAke uP SToRe ku BAR 55dSL Rice BARRicA coS MeLA BenefiT foRnARinA ToP of The Town douBLe ShoT coffee coMPAny GoLden PAGodA TRiyoGA MiSATo howieS GoLden dAy 23 23 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 business review Future portfolio activity Results We continue to pursue acquisitions across all our villages, Our EPRA adjusted profit before tax amounted to 29.2 million, seeking buildings which already have, or offer the potential for, compared with 22.3 million in the previous year, an increase of predominantly retail and restaurant uses.
The profit on ordinary activities before taxation reported are properties which can add to the restaurant and leisure in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income amounted to element of our portfolio.
The concentration of our investments 115.7 million 2010: 171.9 million.
often allows us flexibility in maximising the benefits of the Rents receivable across the Group adjusted for lease incentives valuable and restricted planning consents associated with have increased this year from 65.7 million to 75.4 million, a rise of catering uses.
The timing of our acquisitions is always 9.7 million.
Income from acquisitions during the year contributed unpredictable and opportunistic.
In the wholly owned portfolio rents invoiced increased We regularly review our portfolio to identify commercial by around 7.5% this year compared with the previous year, after properties or apartments which are no longer part of our core eliminating the impact of property acquisitions and disposals strategy and where disposal would not adversely impact the 2010: 3.0% year-on-year increase.
value and long term opportunities in our portfolio.
Trading conditions in the West End have remained buoyant so There is considerable demand for larger retail units and we are tenant defaults over the year have been minimal, with a charge progressing a number of schemes, particularly in Carnaby, to meet in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for irrecoverable these requirements.
Inevitably there will be some short term loss debts of 0.3 million 2010: 0.5 million.
The amount of vacant of income as we secure vacant possession for our schemes.
space in our portfolio has remained low throughout the year, reflected in a charge for empty rates of only 0.2 million As we have done for many years, we continue to seek alternative 2010: 0.2 million.
uses for our smaller and poorer quality offices, usually converting many of them to residential accommodation.
We have identified Our share of the rental income in the Longmartin joint venture schemes which could potentially add a further 90 apartments has increased this year by 2.1 million to 4.3 million as a result over the next three years.
of the completion and substantial letting of the St Martins Courtyard scheme during the year.
Its income will rise further in We continue to work with Westminster City Council and Camden the current financial year with the benefit of a full years occupancy.
Council to advance further public realm improvements in and around our villages.
Works to improve the eastern part of Ganton The Groups property outgoings rose this year by 0.7 million to Street in Carnaby and Mercer Street, adjacent to St Martins 8.8 million 2010: 8.1 million.
The increase was due in part Courtyard in Covent Garden, have commenced since the year to the non-recoverable costs associated with St Martins Courtyard, end.
In 2012 new public realm schemes will be delayed to which opened to the public in November 2010 and achieved minimise disruption during the period leading up to and during virtually full occupancy in April 2011. the Olympics.
In the current financial climate, local authorities As we have noted in the past, we are bearing a greater ability to fund new schemes may be restricted, requiring a proportion of service charge expenditure in respect of smaller greater contribution from the private sector.
offices and shops, as well as from the increasing amount of residential accommodation in our portfolio.
Our management activity often has an impact on the level of non-recoverable property costs.
For example: We do not capitalise property outgoings or interest incurred during the period when space is held vacant pending the start of our schemes or during the period of works: We may increase the marketing expenditure which we bear to promote our villages both to domestic and overseas retailers and visitors at times of pressure on consumer confidence and spending.
Total administration expenses include a charge of 1.6 million 2010: 1.7 million in respect of equity settled remuneration.
This comprises an accounting charge in respect of share options of 1.2 million 2010: 1.3 million and a charge for employers national insurance liability on share awards and share options of 0.4 million 2010: 0.4 million.
The provision for annual bonuses has increased this year by 0.8 million to 2.0 million reflecting the Groups good performance.
24 24 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 business review Interest payable, including settlements under interest rate swaps, Dividends amounted to 27.8 million, compared with 27.2 million in the Distributions charged in the Group Statement of Changes in previous year.
Our bank debt fell over the year as a whole by Shareholders Equity this year amounted to 25.7 million 2010: 21.4 million to 434.9 million at 30 September 2011, as expenditure 22.2 million, or 10.75p per share 2010: 9.75p.
There was an on acquisitions and capital projects for the year of 79.3 million increase of 10.7% in the amount declared per share and a 9.9% was offset by the net Share Placing proceeds of 99.8 million.
increase in the number of shares in issue arising from the Short term interest rates have remained at unprecedentedly Share Placing in March 2011, which increased the 2011 Interim low levels throughout the year.
The cost of settlements under our Distribution paid in July 2011.
360.0 million of interest swap contracts amounted to 14.8 million A final dividend in respect of the year ended 30 September 2011 this year, a decrease of 0.3 million compared with last year.
of 5.75p per share, amounting to a distribution of 14.4 million, Our unhedged floating rate bank debt continues to benefit from will be proposed at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
This will these low rates, with a current marginal cost of additional result in total distributions in respect of the financial year of drawings of less than 1.75%.
Net finance costs were covered 2.05 times by operating profit The interim dividend was paid, and final dividend will be paid, before investment property disposals and valuation movements entirely as Property Income Distributions.
Based on the interest cover covenants and broadly requires us to distribute a minimum of 90% of net rental definitions contained in our banking agreements, net interest income, calculated by reference to tax rather than accounting payable was covered 2.4 times by net property income 2010: 2.1 rules.
Our distributions are in excess of this minimum amount.
times, compared with the minimum ratio of 1.5 times we are We expect to maintain steady growth in our dividends, fully required to maintain.
We comfortably exceed the minimum ratio covered in future by adjusted annual post-tax profits.
of net rental income for properties in the REIT group against attributable interest payable of 1.25 times required under REIT Finance legislation.
Our strategy is to secure flexible long and medium term debt The current market expectation that interest rates will remain at finance together with non-speculative hedging of the interest historically low levels for some time has resulted in an increase rate exposure on a substantial portion of our floating rate debt.
in the fair value deficit of our long term interest rate swaps of This finance strategy is intended to match our funding with our 24.1 million to 104.6 million at the year end.
This non-cash assets which are held for long term investment, and to provide accounting provision, which is excluded in the calculation of reasonable certainty of finance costs whilst limiting the Groups our banking covenants, continues to be volatile, decreasing in exposure to adverse movements in interest rates.
the first half by 37.4 million, only to rise in the second half by The Board keeps under review the level of current and forecast 61.5 million.
We can see no commercial benefit at present in debt and the Groups strategies regarding the appropriate levels terminating any of our interest rate hedges, which would of debt and equity finance, the maturity profile of loan facilities involve crystallising this accounting provision.
However we and interest rate exposure and hedging.
continue to monitor opportunities to restructure our swaps as In March 2011 we strengthened our equity base with an issue of market sentiment changes.
shares by way of a Share Placing.
We issued 22.7 million shares, The tax charge on the EPRA adjusted profit for the year was equivalent to approximately 9.9% of our issued share capital at 0.4 million 2010: 0.1 million and arises solely in our joint the time, at 4.50 per share which produced net proceeds after venture.
Our 50% interest in Longmartin is outside the Groups issue costs of 99.8 million.
These new funds, which in the short REIT business, so that our share of its results continues to be term have repaid part of our bank debt, provide us with the subject to provisions for corporation and deferred tax.
capacity to continue the expansion of our portfolio.
EPRA adjusted diluted post-tax earnings per share for the current The nominal value of Debenture and bank borrowings at the year amounted to 11.9p compared with 9.7p last year, an increase year end totalled 495.3 million, a reduction of 21.4 million over of 22.7%.
The unadjusted diluted post-tax earnings per share the year.
Cash outflows during the year on acquisitions amounted shown in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the to 64.0 million and expenditure on the Groups portfolio totalled current year amounted to 47.0p compared with 73.0p last year.
Revenue operations after net interest payments The EPRA adjusted net asset value at 30 September 2011 of produced a net cash surplus of 30.1 million, compared with 1,164.0 million equates to a diluted net asset value of 4.63 per 26.4 million in the previous year.
Tax payments totalled share 2010: 948.4 million equivalent to 4.14 per share, an 4.6 million 2010: 7.4 million, which included 3.8 million in increase of 215.6 million.
Our Share Placing in March 2011 respect of the final instalments of our 2007 REIT conversion charge.
accounted for 99.8 million of the increase in shareholders funds during the year, equivalent to approximately 0.01 per share.
Unadjusted shareholders funds at the year end shown in the Group Balance Sheet totalled 1,053.7 million, an increase over the year of 190.0 million.
The unadjusted diluted net asset value per share amounted to 4.19 2010: 3.78.
25 25 George Bernard Shaw 26 26 PeckhAM Rye JAeGeR London nickeL Soo Lee GARden cAfe PyRuS PLuM VALLey f TRouPe G-STAR GoSh!
Bexy LAdy henTSch MAn The PowdeR RooM BoSS oRAnGe SToRe dAhLiA honG konG BuffeT BASe LeViS food foR ThouGhT duo PoLPo BoB Soho hk dineR ReBeccA hoSSAck GALLeRy deheSA GiLdAS TRyST JAck wiLLS PizzA exPReSS MeRc fLAT PLAneT dARiMeyA TiMe2 Pixi 27 27 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 business review Gearing at the year end was 43% 2010: 55%, calculated by At 30 September 2011, the fair value of the Groups interest rate reference to our EPRA adjusted net asset value referred to swaps represented a liability of 104.6 million 2010: 80.5 million.
above and the nominal rather than book value of our Debenture Our strategy of taking long term, fixed rate swaps provides and net bank debt.
The ratio of the nominal value of Debenture certainty in fixing a substantial part of our debt.
However, and net bank debt to the Market Value of our property assets particularly in the current environment of unprecedentedly was 30% 2010: 35%.
low interest rates and the uncertainty in debt markets, it results in great volatility in this non-cash mark-to-market provision.
We monitor our overall committed facilities at all times to ensure we have sufficient resources to meet our future cash flow commitments The deficit arising on the fair value of the Groups long term with comfortable headroom and we operate well within our Debenture debt, which is not reflected in our results, amounted banking covenants.
Any new prospective commitments, such to 11.4 million.
The reduction in the deficit of 2.2 million reflects as property acquisitions, are considered in the light of funding higher market credit spreads, offset by a market expectation that currently available to the Group.
interest rates will rise more slowly than previously anticipated.
At the year end committed bank facilities totalled 575 million, The Group has no legal obligation to crystallise these non-cash unchanged over the year, of which 140.7 million was undrawn fair value deficits by early refinancing of its fixed rate debt or 2010: 119.3 million.
We have 375 million of our facilities maturing early termination of its interest rate hedges, but may consider in 2016, 125 million in 2020 and 75 million in 2021, giving a doing so where there is a clear economic benefit to the business.
weighted average maturity of 6.3 years 2010: 6.6 years.
We The Board monitors both actual and forecast performance maintain a regular dialogue with existing and prospective lenders against the financial covenants contained in the Groups bank with a view to ensuring our facilities continue to reflect the long facilities and Debenture trust deed.
Each of our facilities is term nature of our investment strategy.
secured against designated property assets and in addition The average margin over LIBOR we paid on amounts drawn from each of the lenders, including the Debenture trustee, has a our bank facilities at the year end was 0.85%.
If we drew all of shared floating charge over the assets of the Company and our facilities in full, the weighted average margin we would pay certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries.
These margins, fixed throughout the term of the The outstanding Debenture stock of 61.0 million is secured by facilities, are much lower than would be obtainable for similar a first charge on property assets, where we must maintain arrangements in the current banking environment.
Unless the a minimum value of 150% of the stock outstanding, and where current general scarcity of debt finance abates, we would expect the net rental income has to match the coupon of 8.5%.
We are that our margins will increase as we extend or refinance our comfortably in excess of these covenants based on assets present arrangements ahead of their contractual maturity.
We have hedging in place on 360.0 million of our 434.3 million Our banking covenants are structured on a Group-wide basis of floating rate bank debt, fixed at rates between 4.59% and and are broadly similar for each of our facilities.
The financial 5.15% excluding margin with a weighted average rate of covenants, together with their status at 30 September 2011, 4.87%.
The hedging contracts have a weighted average maturity were as shown in the table below.
Based on the results for the year ended 30 September 2011, At the year end, reflecting both our hedged and unhedged net property income could fall by approximately 25 million bank debt, the weighted average cost of bank borrowings equivalent to 37% of this years Group net property income including margin was 5.02%, compared with 4.74% at the before the interest cover covenant is reached.
Based on the year previous year end.
Including our long term Debenture debt, end property valuations and debt levels, property values across our overall weighted cost of debt at 30 September 2011 was the Group would have to decline by around 50% before we 5.39% 2010: 5.13%.
The increase in our average cost of debt reach our loan to value or gearing covenant limits.
The actual reflects the reduction in unhedged floating rate debt resulting future headroom on covenants will be affected by a number of from the proceeds of our Share Placing.
factors, including future acquisitions, expenditure commitments and valuation movements.
Bank covenants and status at 30 September 2011 Financial covenant Covenant level Status at 30 September 2011 Ratio of Group net property income to Group net interest payable Minimum of 1.5:1 2.4:1 Actual borrowings from each lender as a percentage of property assets 30% based on total bank borrowings charged as security Not to exceed 66.7% available assets as across the Group Percentage of Group borrowings compared to Group shareholders funds adjusted to exclude any fair value accounting provisions for interest rate derivatives Maximum of 175% 43% 28 28 Le BeAJoLAiS eneRGie & kiLLAh MiMco ikkyuSAn PReT A MAnGeR VAnS MyunG GA BouLeVARd BRASSeRie SuPeR SuPeRficiAL koPAPA PyLoneS oRion SAcRed cAfe MAde in BRAziL kuA AinA TAo TAo Ju SweeT couTuRe ARenSki GALLeRy PoSTe MiSTReSS nike SuGARLeSQue MoR wAn chAi coRneR SudA wRiGhT BRoTheRS Soho BeRToReLLiS MAde in iTALy The enduRAnce MiSAn fABRicS Bo derek BooTS PASTeLLe MAGMA BookS The ShASTon ARMS cARRy Me hoMe 29 29 ALBARh ThAi Tho fifi wiLSon BeRGhAuS BARBouR heRiTAGe chez GeRARd hi SuShi izAkAyA LeViS VinTAGe cLoThinG zeST PeekABoo VinTAGe ViTAL inGRedienT yeAR zeRo yeAR zeRo The noRTh fAce ThinGS BRiTiSh The LofT Jo Joy eVeRLey y eVeRLey LA GeLATeRie y yo oT ToPiA oPiA fAT fAce fouR SeASonS PJS BAR & GRiLL Adee PheLAn oRcS neST MAGMA chA chA Moon kowLoon Beyond The VALLey Mae west noTeS MuSic & coffee PePe JeAnS LiTTLe SiciLy kidRoBoT coTe BiSTRo new MAyfLoweR 30 30 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 business review The Board is satisfied that the Groups performance relating to Performance and benchmarking the achievement of growth in rental income and estimated rental The table on page 4 summarises our performance this year values in the current year has more than met its expectations.
This year rents across all uses have throughout the year As explained in previous years, we have been unable to identify generally met or exceeded valuers estimates.
Like-for-like a published property performance index which relates specifically growth in rents receivable of 7.5% has been significantly above to a portfolio of mixed use buildings such as ours, or recognises the Groups recent average growth rate.
restaurant uses, an increasingly important element of our The amount of vacant space across the portfolio has remained investment strategy, as a component.
We have therefore used for very low throughout the year.
Where space has become vacant, comparison purposes the IPD UK Monthly Indices which track void periods have generally remained at acceptable levels movements across all main commercial property categories although the Group continues to experience delays due to throughout the UK on a monthly basis.
Shaftesbury is a problems beyond its control, for example in the planning constituent of the FTSE 350 Super Sector Real Estate Index.
process or through the failure of utility companies to meet their Taking into account acquisitions and capital expenditure during service obligations.
the year, our portfolio grew in value by 7.2% over the year, out-performing our IPD benchmark, which reported general The future capital growth of 1.7%.
Against a background of great uncertainty in financial markets and the wider economy, Londons West End has continued to We expect our properties, which have a consistent record of prosper.
Subdued consumer and business confidence apparent greater stability in values, rising income and rental values and elsewhere is not evident in our locations, where we continue limited obsolescence, will continue to out-perform the wider to benefit from strong demand for all our uses.
market over the long term.
The major events which London will host in 2012 may well bring Our portfolio recorded a total return of 11.3% for the year, some short term disruption to the West End but are expected to exceeding the total return of 8.7% recorded by our IPD attract many visitors and will advertise London to a global benchmark.
The degree of our out-performance of this index audience.
reflects the lower yield profile of our property assets.
We are not complacent and we never take the prosperity of the We recorded a positive total shareholder return for the year West End for granted.
However we remain confident that the ended 30 September 2011 of 10.0% compared with the FTSE 350 enduring appeal of London and its unique features and Super Sector Real Estate Index which recorded a decline of 0.4%.
unrivalled attractions, together with our innovative and Key performance indicators enterprising management approach, will ensure our resilient portfolio continues to out-perform in the challenging economic The key financial objective of the Group is to deliver outperiod ahead.
performance over the long term in the growth of its net asset value.
Fundamental to this objective is sustained long term rental growth from our property assets and a focus on uses Brian Bickell Chief Executive which minimise costs of obsolescence which over time lead to 30 November 2011 improvement in their capital value.
The Groups key financial performance indicators measure its portfolio performance, both in terms of capital value and total returns, against the publicly-available IPD UK Monthly Index which, as explained above, tracks movements across all main commercial property categories throughout the UK on a monthly basis.
The Groups performance against this index is set out on page 4.
The rental prospects of the Groups portfolio are the key driver of long term performance.
The key non-financial performance indicators related to rental income growth used within the business measure are: the extent to which rents achieved meet or exceed the rental values estimated by the Groups external valuers at their last valuation and: the ability of management to maximise the occupation of the Groups properties and, where vacancies arise, minimise the time that properties are vacant and not producing income.
In the case of properties being refurbished, the void period monitored includes time spent in designing schemes, obtaining planning consents, carrying out physical works and marketing up to the point of completing lettings.
For vacant properties which are ready to let, marketing periods are monitored and assessed.
