SECTION 2 BUSINESS REVIEW OPERATING BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW We have made progress against our Cross-channel sales continue to represent strategic agenda despite the challenging a significant, profitable revenue opportunity, market conditions.
Overall we remained consistent with our mid-sized stores and ahead of our markets, successfully centralised infrastructure.
The priority now is grew our profitable web sales, improved on developing extended ranges and services the results of Darty France and have plus starting to grow web sales at the taken action to improve performance Developing businesses.
The Group size is being leveraged in a Group strategy number of aspects.
In sourcing, further The Groups strategy is to push market progress has been made in product licensing differentiation by rolling out the Darty and own brand products.
Common IT concept, build a true European network, platforms are being developed across the grow profitable cross-channel sales and smaller businesses, including the web.
Group operationally leverage the Group size.
benchmarking exercises have also been Progress has been made in 2010 11 against introduced for the brands, store stafng levels this strategic agenda and further progress and product profitability.
Thierry Falque-Pierrotin Chief Executive will be made in 2011 12.
Darty France The benets of the Darty concept are clearly In France, Darty had a strong start and end demonstrated by the improved market to the year in the World Cup and digital switch positions and profitability of Darty France over periods.
Overall, Darty outperformed a and Vanden Borre in Belgium.
The concept market estimated to be slightly negative, with is being launched at BCC in The Netherlands market share gains particularly in vision.
Total with a new management team and support revenue grew by 4.6 per cent compared to from Vanden Borre.
Implementation of the the same period last year, and by 2.0 per cent processes that underpin the Darty concept on a like-for-like basis.
Overall, Darty outperformed will also play a key part of the turnaround a market estimated to be plans we have for Comet.
Gross margin was stable throughout the slightly negative, with market year, and with an improved cost to sales The European network is being built out as ratio, retail profit increased by 11.9 per cent share gains particularly in we grow the store networks in Italy and to 149.2million, resulting in an improvement vision.
Total revenue grew Turkey, which are substantial markets where in retail profit margin from 4.8 per cent to by 4.6 per cent compared we currently have less than one per cent 5.1per cent.
As expected, Darty Box market share.
In addition, restructuring achieved break-even and had 310,000 to the same period last year, action has largely been completed in Spain, subscribers at the year end.
and by 2.0 per cent on a and we are now building on a rebranded, like-for-like basis.
RANGE Our stores have a carefully selected range of products, with the fully expanded range being available online.
10 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 2 BUSINESS REVIEW 14 regional service centres to two sites, The Darty website continued to be enhanced Comet reducing the warehouse network from three with downloadable e-books and a gaming Comet saw a positive start to the year with to two as part of a retender of logistic services centre and delivered excellent growth, a strong World Cup campaign and successful and has reduced head ofce headcount.
increasing sales by 27.8 per cent to nearly delivery of a one-off multimedia initiative.
An exceptional charge of 19.9 million was 10per cent of total product sales.
The record trading over the Christmas and New Year period failed to offset the earlier incurred during the year, with annualised During the period the Darty concept was weakness in the market and tougher trading benets expected to be 11 million.
developed further with in-store enhancements: conditions in the final quarter, post the a further eight stores having the successful VATincrease.
The actions taken in the year to improve kitchen offer, taking the total number of Comets performance all delivered positively: stores with the offer to 29: a cookware range Overall, Comet lost a small amount of market and internet and 3D TV displays were rolled share in a market estimated to have been at, Dedicated accessories areas were out to stores: and enhanced sales force particularly in large white goods, against a introduced into 190 stores.
Overall sales training incorporating e-learning modules very strong performance in the prior year.
penetration for this high margin product were introduced.
As a result total revenue was 1,537.9 million, category increased by 210 basis points.
a fall of 6.8 per cent in constant currency Updated small kitchen appliances and Subscription-based services have started compared to the same period last year and health and beauty displays were to be developed.
These included a monthly a fall of 7.7 per cent on a like-for-like basis.
introduced into 100 stores during the year.
multimedia support subscription, Pack This contributed to overall small domestic Serenity and Darty Mobile, initially for existing After a solid first half, web-generated sales appliances penetration increasing by Darty Box subscribers.
A start has also been saw some disruption following the launch of 70basis points.
made in developing the opportunity presented a new software platform in the second half.
significant actions were taken across by its 15 million customer database, As a result web-generated sales grew 2.5 per the store portfolio, with 44 core store with targeted emailing campaign during cent for the period to represent approximately rets, delivering on average 14 per cent the television digital switchover.
15 per cent of total product sales.
sales and 12 per cent gross margin uplifts against a control group of stores.
To support the further enhancement of the Gross margin remained under pressure The seven rets which have traded for Darty service a new marketing campaign through the year, both from sales mix of TVs more than a year are delivering a positive was introduced at the start of 2011, and multimedia at the start of the year, the like-for-like sales performance.
highly promotional peak season and overall three new stores were opened and competitive environment.
The store portfolio was further developed continued strong focus on costs, with total The Comet brand was refreshed and during the period with one new store, costs down nearly 7 per cent, but this could relaunched in September with new four refurbishments and four relocations.
not fully offset the revenue and margin in-store point of sale material and staff The development programme will be pressures, resulting in a loss for the year uniforms.
This was supported by new, accelerated in 2011 12 with four new of 8.9 million.
differentiated press and TV campaigns stores, six relocations and seven Come and Play which have been refurbishments, including the roll-out In addition to the day-to-day cost positively received.
management, Comet is consolidating its Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 11 SECTION 2 BUSINESS REVIEW OPERATING BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW SERVICE Connectivity Darty France has monthly multimedia support subscriptions to give its customers peace of mind.
This action provided a platform to develop stores since February with revised oor and accelerate plans to turn the Comet congurations to optimise space allocation business around.
Further action in addition between product categories.
So far this has to the restructuring programme is now being led to a 150 basis points increase in margin taken to build on the Comet position of: in the test stores.
One hundred stores are to be recongured in the financial year, with the strong brand awareness: majority before peak season.
significant market share, particularly in large white goods: Following the action taken in the year Comet a consistent store network supporting had only two stores at the year end with a Comet is well placed to carve a cross-channel approach and new web store contribution below break-even and a platform: and further 31 stores with a store contribution a clear position in a growing efficient back ofce infrastructure to diluting the targeted Comet retail profit cross-channel market support the services strategy.
Seventeen of the stores will be closed providing all the benets of the or exited, ten will be right sized and seven These plans have been designed and will be retained and refurbished in the next traditional local independent their implementation has started with three years.
This, coupled with a certain good advice, edited ranges, a new streamlined and strengthened geographic density of stores being required and high level of service.
for a successful cross-channel strategy, leads to a continual reshaping of the store portfolio.
In terms of commercial policy, a specic focus The priority this year will be to close nine is being put on arresting margin erosion, with stores and right size seven stores.
Most of more effective management of discounting, the underperforming stores are being stock promotion and management of end of marketed, which could potentially speed up life products.
Margin enhancement measures the overall process.
There are no new stores are being developed from further focus on the in the pipeline.
small domestic appliances and accessories initiatives and from optimising selling space Comet is now further developing its web front allocation, capitalising on the direct product end and is in a position to leverage fully the profitability work that has been completed new platform.
Enhancements to be made across the Group.
Comet has trialled four include intelligent product recommendations, 12 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 2 BUSINESS REVIEW personalisation, bespoke product pages market estimated to be slightly positive, with and quick checkout facilities.
Transactional market share gains in all product categories.
capability will also be added to Comets BCC in The Netherlands and Datart in the mobile app in addition to the Click and Czech Republic were impacted by difficult Collect functionality already available.
Comet trading conditions in the first half with now aligns web and store prices on products improving trends thereafter at BCC and stable common to both channels.
As a result, total revenue increased range of products is being introduced for web by 3.7 per cent in constant currency and by sales to allow Comet to price match pure play 2.0 per cent on a like-for-like basis.
This range depth and authority online is being supported by new Web-generated sales continued to grow The new management team dropship vending agreements and the very strongly, up over 45 per cent during at BCC, fully supported by number of products available will be more the period, and now represent 8.6 per cent Vanden Borre, is implementing than four times the one available in stores, of total product sales.
with no stock risk to the business.
the Darty concept with an The segment delivered a very small decline improved price, choice and With its strong brand awareness, consistent in gross margin and stable cost to sales over enhanced service proposition store portfolio, leading back ofce and service the year, resulting in a fall in retail profit to infrastructure, Comet is well placed to carve 15.5 million, compared with 16.1 million for supported by a new marketing a clear position in a growing cross-channel the same period last year.
Retail profit margin communication plan.
market, providing all the benets of the reduced to 1.9 per cent compared with traditional local independent good advice, 2.1per cent last year.
Selective investment edited ranges, and high level of service was made in the store development but supported by the efficiency of national programme with a total net three new stores infrastructure and extensive web offering.
This and four refurbishments in the year.
A total of five new stores and four refurbishments are platform puts Comet in an excellent position as it continues to build its store and service planned for 2011 12.
For 2011 12 Vanden offering to be the trusted electrical specialist.
Borre will continue to enhance its differentiated position with the opening of a multimedia call Other established businesses centre and the launch of monthly subscription Vanden Borre in Belgium continued to multimedia support packages.
It will also demonstrate the strength of the Darty refresh its communication to develop concept with a strong outperformance in a awareness of the Contrat fide Conance.
EXPERT Over 26,000 employees contribute to help and advise customers to make the right choice of product or service.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 13 SECTION 2 BUSINESS REVIEW OPERATING BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW The new management team at BCC, fully Gross margin continued to improve and Outlook supported by Vanden Borre, is implementing overall losses reduced from 33.1 million The Group anticipates all its markets will the Darty concept with an improved price, to 30.8 million.
remain challenging for the current financial choice and enhanced service proposition year.
Trading since the year end has been Darty Italy accelerated its store expansion supported by a new marketing communication tough and weaker than our expectations: plan.
Actions are also being taken on the cost programme with the opening of 11 new however, from improved market positions base through a restructuring programme for stores during the period, taking the total to in most of its markets, further cost measures which related exceptional charges were taken 28.
A further four are planned for 2011 12, in all countries with specic restructuring in the year of 2.8 million which are expected extending to the east of its Milan base.
Darty at Comet, BCC and Darty Spain and the to deliver 4 million of annualised savings.
Turkey continued to build scale with four new strength of its cash generation and balance stores in the period, including outside of sheet, the Group is well prepared for these Developing businesses Istanbul, taking the total to 21, with a further conditions.
The Group remains focused on Total revenue for the Developing businesses, four planned for 2011 12.
As these two delivering its strategic plan further rolling out Darty Italy, Darty Turkey and Darty Spain, businesses evolve from start up operations, its specialist business model and improving increased by 5.0 per cent to 377.0 million the senior management and commercial and profitability across the Group.
and by 3.8 per cent in constant currency, store processes are being strengthened.
representing market share gains in Italy Given the positive impact of the World Cup and Turkey plus more recent market out In Spain, restructuring action has been and the one-off multimedia initiative in the performance in Spain.
Forty stores have now UK in the first half of last year, the balance of basis, sales fell by 7.9 per cent through been rebranded to Darty and a marketing sales, profit and cash ow between the first a combination of ongoing difficult market campaign has now commenced around the and second half will be more weighted than conditions in Spain and the disruption during Contrat fide Conance to establish the Darty usual towards the second half.
the rebranding to Darty, strong sales brand and highlight its differentiated position performance in Turkey last year aided by tax in the market.
Further work has been completed Thierry Falque-Pierrotin Chief Executive incentives and a more recent slowing of the on reshaping the store portfolio with three new market in Italy.
Overall web-generated sales stores and four closures in the year.
As we increased by over 80 per cent, but this focus predominantly on the regional strength represented less than 1 per cent of total of the portfolio in Madrid and Galicia, one product sales, and will now become a focus new store, six closures, four refurbishments of the businesses in 2011 12. and two relocations are planned for 2011 12.
The six closures of stores not viable to rebrand to Darty predominantly took place at the start of the new financial year.
For these closures and other cost saving measures, related exceptional charges were taken in the year of 8.2 million which are expected to deliver 3 million of annualised savings.
14 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 2 BUSINESS REVIEW Revenue of 10.1million 2010: 12.2 million Group revenue was 5,917.3 million, an plus IAS 19 notional pension interest of increase of 2.2 per cent on a reported basis 3.7million 2010: 6.7million.
and 0.7 per cent in constant currency, compared with the same period last year.
In December 2010 the Group signed a On a like-for-like basis revenue decreased committed 455 million five year revolving by 1.8 per cent.
This performance reects credit facility, replacing the existing a strong first quarter with successful delivery 500 million facility.
The new facility reduced of our World Cup campaigns followed by a the interest charge by around 0.5 million toughening trading environment thereafter, in the financial year.
particularly in the UK and Spain.
As a result of our strategy to enhance our online Exceptional net finance costs were presence, web-generated sales increased 0.6million 2010: income 3.2 million.
by 17 per cent to represent 10.7 per cent This comprised 4.2 million exceptional of total product sales.
finance income relating to fair value movements, profits on disposal and release Retail profit of provision of other investments, less Dominic Platt Finance Director Group retail profit fell by 2.7 per cent to 4.8million exceptional finance costs 107.0 million from 110.0 million last year, consisting of a write-off of fees from the a decline of 2.9 per cent in constant currency, previous revolving credit facility.
representing a 0.1 percentage point decline Financial review in retail profit margin to 1.8 per cent.
This profit before tax performance reected increased profits at Adjusted profit before tax was 93.2 million 2010 11 2009 10 Change % Darty France and reduced losses at the 2010: 91.1 million and reported profit Total sales 5,917.3m 5,789.1m 2.2 Developing businesses offset by the losses before tax and after interest was 60.7 million Retail profit 107.0m 110.0m 2.7 at Comet.
Adjusted PBT 93.2m 91.1m 2.3 profit before tax 60.7m 77.8m 22.0 Operating profit and exceptional items Taxation Adjusted EPS 10.9c 10.6c 2.8 Reported operating profit of 75.1 million The adjusted effective tax rate on profit before Basic EPS 6.0c 8.4c 28.6 included exceptional costs of 30.9 million exceptional items, including the share of joint Dividend 7.0c 6.6c 6.1 relating to restructuring programmes at venture and associates tax was 38.8 per Comet, BCC in The Netherlands and Darty cent 2010: 36.3 per cent.
The increase in 1 Excludes the share of joint venture and associates Spain, for which the related cash outow adjusted effective tax rate was due to the interest and taxation, the effects of valuation gains and losses on options to acquire non-controlling interests, during the year was 4.3 million.
A further change in the geographic mix of profits.
profit on disposal of business operations, exceptional 2million cost and 17 million cash outow The overall tax rate was 50.0 per cent restructuring costs, amortisation and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets and exceptional is expected in 2011 12.
The increase in the finance costs.
overall rate compared to the increase in the Financing income and expense adjusted effective tax rate is due to the The net interest cost before exceptional incremental tax effect of exceptional items was 13.8 million 2010: 18.9 million, on the geographic mix compared to the tax comprising net interest on nancing effect of profits before exceptional items.
CHANNELS Delivering success Darty Frances retail profitability grew despite subdued market conditions, with web sales accounting for nearly 10 per cent of total product sales.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 15 SECTION 2 BUSINESS REVIEW OPERATING BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW SERVICE Home installation We deliver market-leading support and care throughout a products life, from research through purchases to delivery, installation and after-sales support.
Earnings per share Year to Year to Adjusted earnings per share were 10.9 cents m 30 April 2011 30 April 2010 2010: 10.6 cents and basic diluted earnings Cash generated from operations 242.5 253.0 per share were 6.0 cents 2010: 8.4 cents Interest and tax paid 46.0 64.2 due to the exceptional charges.
Net cash ow from operating activities 196.5 188.8 Cash ow Net capital expenditure and investments 130.2 87.6 Net cash ow was 33.3million 2010: Dividends paid 36.6 29.1 81.1million with increased net cash ow Other 3.6 9.0 from operating activities offset by higher Net cash ow 33.3 81.1 capital expenditure and dividends paid to Translation differences 3.4 1.6 shareholders.
Capital expenditure increased primarily as a result of the core refurbishment Movement in net cash 29.9 82.7 programme at Comet and accelerated store opening programme at Darty Italy.
Free cash ow, which we measure as the revolving credit facility was 230 million.
face of the Groups balance sheet.
The cash generated from operations less net As at 30 April 2011, 60 million of the facility corresponding deferred tax asset is recorded capital expenditure and investments, was was drawn down, with an average drawing in non-current deferred tax assets.
112.3million, down from 165.4million through the financial year of 120 million.
in the previous year, primarily reecting the The UK dened benefit scheme, the Comet increase in capital expenditure.
Pensions Pension Scheme, which has 5,300 members, The IAS 19 net pension liability fell from was closed to new accruals in September Net cash 85.0million to 71.9 million.
During the past year an Enhanced Closing net cash was 121.0 million is split 45.9 million from the UK 2010: Transfer Value programme was completed as compared to 91.1 million on 30 April 2010, 58.0million and 26.0 million for France well as an exercise to buy out the remaining including 72.7 million of pledged funds for 2010: 27.0 million.
In accordance with salary link.
This exercise reduced liabilities by the UK extended warranty and service IAS19 the total pension deficit is included 21.4 million for a company cash payment of contract schemes.
Peak borrowing under as a liability in retirement benets on the 7.3million excluding expenses and scheme 16 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 2 BUSINESS REVIEW asset transfers of 13.6 million.
There is Other financial matters an accounting deficit on an IAS 19 basis Change of reporting currency as at 30April 2011 of 45.9million As previously announced for the 2010 11 2010: 58.0million.
financial year, the Group has changed its reporting currency from sterling to euros.
This In addition, the triennial revaluation of the provides a better reection of the underlying EXPERT UK dened benefit scheme was completed performance of the Group as nearly two Online support during the year.
This resulted in a reduced thirds of total revenue and over 100 per cent Group web-generated sales, up 17 per cent to deficit of 49 million.
Annual funding will of the retail profit are generated in euros.
nearly 11 per cent of total product sales, generating remain at 6.1 million per annum with Dividends are offered in either sterling or 580 million revenue.
a view to closing the deficit by 2018. euros with reference to euro earnings.
In France, the main pension benets are Financial risk management provided through the state system.
The Kesa Group treasury manages liquidity and Group is also legally required to pay lump exposure to funding, credit, price, interest sums retirement indemnities to employees rate and foreign exchange rate risks.
Group when they retire from service.
In addition, treasury uses a combination of derivative and there is a supplementary funded dened conventional financial instruments to manage benefit plan for a few top executives these underlying financial risks.
This plan is operations are conducted within a framework funded, in part, through invested assets and of Board-approved policies and guidelines, insurance policies.
The remainder of the which are recommended and monitored by liability is unfunded and payments to retiring the Treasury Committee.
These policies and employees are met by direct payments by the guidelines include bank exposure limits and Company.
As of 30 April 2011, the unfunded hedge cover levels for each of the key areas liability was 26.0 million 2010: 27.0 million.
The Board and Treasury Committee receive regular reports covering Dividends the activities of Group treasury.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 4.75 cents per share, bringing the total The main elements of treasury activity and dividend to 7.0 cents per share.
The related risks are outlined below: ex-dividend date will be 14 September 2011, the record date 16 September 2011 and the Liquidity and funding payment date will be 7 October 2011.
It is the policy of the Group to maintain sufficient committed financial resources to meet its business objectives.
The interest rate, currency and maturity proles of the Groups borrowings are disclosed in Notes 2and 22 to the financial statements.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 17 SECTION 2 BUSINESS REVIEW OPERATING BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW The Groups principal facility is a 455 million Treasury policy requires that all transactional Capital management revolving credit facility expiring in 2015. foreign exchange risk relating to committed The principal sources of capital to fund transactions must be hedged.
The gain or the Groups operations are equity, bank Currency loss on the hedge is recognised at the same borrowings and operating leases on The Group publishes its financial statements time as the underlying transaction.
Group policy is to borrow in euros and conducts business in several centrally to meet funding requirements: foreign currencies.
It is therefore subject Interest rate risk funds are then lent or contributed as to foreign currency exchange risk due to The Group is exposed to the risk of equity to certain subsidiaries.
exchange movements affecting the Groups uctuation in interest rates on its borrowings transaction costs and the translation of and manages this exposure using interest In considering the balance of sources of results and underlying net assets of its rate swaps.
The treasury policy requires finance used by the Group, the Group seeks foreignsubsidiaries.
that at least 30 per cent, but no more to maintain nancing from equity, debt and than 70 per cent, of long-term debt in the property leases relative to earnings and cash The Group hedges a substantial proportion Group must be at a xed rate and this will ows at levels consistent, over time, similar of its exposure to uctuations on the be applied when there is a need for longer to companies rated investment grade translation into euros of its foreign currency term borrowings.
by publicly recognised rating agencies.
net assets by minimising the net assets held in non-euro currencies.
Exchange differences Credit risk Going concern arising on the retranslation of net assets Interest rate swap agreements, foreign The Directors have performed a review held in currencies other than the functional exchange contracts and deposits transacted of revenue and profit forecasts, expected currency of the entity are recognised in other by the Group are only entered into with cash ows, available borrowing facilities and comprehensive income.
counterparties possessing a long-term credit expected compliance with related covenants.
Group treasury regularly This has provided reasonable expectation The Group adopts a centralised approach monitors the credit exposure of the Group that the Kesa Electricals Group has to foreign exchange risk management.
to its counterparties and the credit ratings adequate resources to continue in operational Permission of Group treasury is required of those counterparties on a monthly basis.
existence for the next financial year and the before a foreign exchange transaction may be foreseeable future.
Any foreign exchange transaction must be demonstrably linked to an underlying Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt exposure and the hedge is monitored through the going concern basis in preparing the the life of the transaction to ensure it remains financial statements.
Dominic Platt Finance Director 18 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11
