Business Review Directors Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business review market, where Select accounted for 29.1% Sales and markets of our sales during the year.
We are In 2011, the global demand for edible particularly pleased that the branded collagen casings continued to increase, Rgenwalder Mhlen-Wrstchen introduced albeit with considerable variations between in September 2010 with Select casing markets and regions.
Developed markets continues to grow, whilst an innovative were generally subdued, reflecting the poultry-based wiener in Select has passed economic situation.
In emerging markets, earlier stages of evaluation to the point where there is long-term growth arising from it is now distributed in more than 30 leading increasing disposable income and urbanisation, generating stronger demand discount stores in southern Germany.
Current estimates indicate In the UK, strong supermarket discounting that the global market for collagen grew by and promotion of certain segments led to a as much as 10% in 2011, with China again slight reduction in the share of sausages making a significant contribution to this.
The resultant effect on Devros sales volumes was offset by For Devro, with a strategy of seeking value improved UK pricing and the opportunity to and profitable sales, total volume growth export a greater proportion of our UK during 2011 was 4.6%.
This was largely due production to meet growing demand in to the growing demand for Select casings, a other markets.
highly innovative product introduced in 2010, specifically designed for developed In the USA, lower disposable incomes and markets to replace sheep gut in premium Peter Page Chief Executive increased pork costs, due to high corn sausages.
In 2011, 4.3% of Devros edible prices, led to a significant move from fresh collagen sales volume was Select casings.
sausage in edible casings to extruded, 2011 is the fourth year in non-cased meat products as part of a The product development and marketing succession that Devro has low-price frozen meal.
However, this was efforts that we have devoted to Select compensated for by a large beefstick increased operating profits worldwide form the first part of our strategy manufacturer completing the transition from to grow sales in established markets, where before exceptional items, co-extrusion to collagen casing resulting in the total demand for sausages is not while also making significant an increase in sales of collagen casing.
increasing but where there are still Whilst this had a small, adverse impact on capital investments in significant opportunities to replace sheep our sales of collagen gel used in cogut at good prices, especially where Devro capacity for the future.
The extrusion, we increased sales of gel to other already has well-established distribution continued progress is very key accounts and we continue to be arrangements and sales teams in place.
optimistic about the longer-term prospects pleasing, with 2012 set to be Throughout the world, supply of top quality for collagen gel as a substitute for plastic sheep gut was constrained in 2011, another year of growth and and cellulose casings.
resulting in further price increases.
development in line with our Natural and climatic events have affected long-term strategy.
In Japan, retail prices of food products have demand in some markets.
Australia and been held constant and as a result this has New Zealand, both large markets for fresh encouraged a transition from gut to sausage, have been adversely affected by collagen.
In this market Devros total rainfall, floods and earthquakes.
Australian volumes increased 30% over 2010, entirely volumes declined slightly but in New due to Select manufactured at our plant in Zealand, despite the earthquakes, Devro Australia.
Introduced to customers in volume remained stable, in part attributable January and February, the first retail product to the six-week Rugby World Cup.
was listed with Japans largest supermarket chain in June, and now 12 customers are The second part of our strategy for growth regularly manufacturing products with Select in sales is to gain volume in emerging casings from Devro.
The rate of progress in markets where the combination of rising this very challenging market is impressive, populations, higher disposable incomes, with several more opportunities ready to be urbanisation, and industrialisation of food developed in 2012 and 2013. manufacturing provide real opportunities for collagen casing.
In Europe, Select casings manufactured at our Scottish and Czech plants are now being Latin American volumes and average prices sold to over 40 customers in 13 countries, continued to rise as distributors succeed in from the Baltics and Scandinavia to Russia developing new accounts and in expanding and Ukraine.
A prime objective for Select is existing business.
to increase Devros share of the German 05 | Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Business review continued Eastern European sales increased and installation work at all sites.
Overall, our significantly, in large part due to the ongoing output of saleable collagen casing was success of FINE casings manufactured at unchanged from prior year, although recent our plant in the Czech Republic.
Sales in capital investment projects added nearly 4% Russia grew further, as Devro maintained a to capacity compared with 2010.
Current market-leading position and locally capital investment work will add capacity in manufactured supply appeared to have 2012 and 2013 equivalent to a further 8% of been curtailed.
2010s capacity in each of these two years, as previously announced.
The overall market growth in China moderated slightly compared to the rates of In order to maintain margins, part of our expansion in the three previous years.
This strategy is to optimise the use of existing was due to food price inflation directly linked assets, and this is achieved by improving to higher pork prices, and also a small performance through a combination of work number of food related scares.
The process activities involving operators, and long-term prospects for China remain modifications to remove constraints and attractive.
On the former, continuous representative office in Beijing and improvement projects using techniques strengthened the sales and technical team such as 5S and Six Sigma have continued in Hong Kong, enabling a much higher level to provide benefits.
Low cost capital of activity throughout South East Asia.
projects in Scotland and Australia have Volumes in Thailand, Indonesia, South raised productivity and reduced marginal Korea, Taiwan and the Philippines all costs on older lines.
The commitment and benefitted from more promotional and enthusiastic involvement of so many technical activity.
Although 2011 sales operators and shift leaders has made these volumes in China were very limited, Devro continuous improvement projects a valuable products have been introduced to, and contributor to our profitability and it is greatly trialled at, all of the leading sausage appreciated by the Board.
manufacturers, with a view to developing business in 2012 and 2013.
Capital expenditure of 4.6 million has been invested in a new line in the USA, using The third part of our strategy for sales high-speed technology developed in growth is to achieve higher average prices Europe.
During 2012, this installation will be per unit of edible collagen sold.
In 2011, the developed and evaluated in anticipation of average price increased 4.2%, as a result of further investments.
several factors, including the higher proportion of Select in our total sales, a 12 million of investment at our Bellshill continuing shift in the mix of markets, factory funded the replacement of some of products, and customers, and negotiated the oldest lines with our newest high-speed technology.
The attraction of this type of price increases with customers and distributors.
We are acutely aware of the modernisation investment is that it installs cost pressures faced by our customers, and proven, bespoke process equipment within always seek to find ways of adding value in existing infrastructure, to be managed and proportion to any cost increases resulting operated by experienced colleagues, leading to the benefits of both lower unit from price rises.
costs and higher volumes of output.
Devro has a diverse product portfolio.
Among various changes in the product mix, it is worth At our plant in Jilemnice, in the Czech noting that 3.2% of 2011 edible collagen Republic, we completed substantial preparatory works so that, in 2012, the sales came from gut conversions achieved in 2009 and 2010, and a further 3.9% of sales original edible casing manufacturing hall can volumes in 2011 came from gut conversions undergo a full programme of replacement achieved during the past year.
and modernisation, again with proven technology being placed within existing Operations and manufacturing infrastructure.
2011 was a challenging time for Devros manufacturing operations, with extreme The final part of our manufacturing strategy weather-related events in the early part of is to reduce unit costs.
Whilst improved the year, and a large amount of engineering yields and productivity make a large 06 06 Business Review Directors Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information contribution to this, we are seeking any from faster and less complex financial opportunity to improve in this area.
During reporting, better visibility and consistency 2011, we installed a natural gas powered of inventory data, and a single demand co-generation plant at Bathurst in Australia.
planning and sales forecasting system.
This generates electricity through a turbine and generator, and provides steam for the I am very pleased that every one of our manufacturing process.
It is expected to manufacturing locations was accredited to reduce energy costs in Australia, and in FS22000, the new global standard for food reducing CO emissions by 30%, it will bring hygiene management systems throughout 2 our Australian operation in line with the food chain.
As the only collagen casings the requirements of forthcoming legislation.
manufacturer with this demanding accreditation, it is a clear sign of Devros Safety commitment to providing customers and My top priority is that Devro should be a consumers with the highest possible levels safe place to work, for employees, visitors of assurance in food safety.
Huge efforts by all employees have contributed to a much At the end of September we completed the higher level of awareness, and I am very sale of our Hamburg-based distribution pleased with the progress we have made.
This business unit Whilst statistics such as Lost Work Day was a legacy from a 1990s acquisition, and Injury rates and Severity levels tell part of the as 80% of its sales revenue came from story, our real measure is Safe Days non-Devro products, it did not fit with our Worked when no injury leading to absence strategy for developed markets.
Earlier in the year we work closely with the acquirer during a achieved a period of 111 Safe Days, and transition phase in 2012, when Devro will from July to December we had a run of 163 establish direct sales arrangements more in Safe Days worked.
I am very encouraged line with our strategy of working closely with and, again, am very grateful for everyones key accounts.
Personally, I keep in touch with Safety issues by accompanying Behavioural Outlook Audits whenever I visit a plant, by taking We expect 2012 will be another year of time to meet and hear from colleagues who sales growth, as the Select projects have suffered a time-loss injury at work, and continue in Japan and Europe, and as we promptly receiving reports of all incidents increase volumes sold to emerging markets.
Pricing, as always, will be a challenge, with customers under pressure from retailers, Corporate activities and competitors taking the opportunity to There were several developments and offer lower prices.
achievements which were completed at a corporate or group level.
Manufacturing capacity will rise in line with recent investments and input costs should At the end of 2011 we introduced a new be manageable, although increases are corporate identity.
During 2012, this single expected, particularly in energy in the UK marque will come to represent the one and Czech Republic.
As always, every effort global company philosophy at Devro, and it will be made to maintain margins through will replace the four brands and logos productivity and process improvements.
arising from the legacy of acquisitions and past corporate developments.
To support In 2012, there will be further investment in this change, Cutisin s. r. o. was renamed as Research, Product Development, and Devro s. r. o. during the year as our regional Process Technology, in order to ensure that business unit for Continental Europe.
we continue to deliver shareholder returns in the current year and beyond.
Throughout 2011, many colleagues from all regions and disciplines have worked late and over weekends as they completed the upgrade and transfer to a single ERP system.
Now that this is completed, work will begin in 2012 to ensure that we benefit Peter Page Chief Executive 07 | Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
