Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 10 cHIEF EXEcUTIVES OPERATING AND BUSINESS REVIEw cautiOnary stateMent The Chief Executives Operating and Business review and the Financial reviewhave been prepared solely to provide additional information to shareholders.
They contain statements that are forward looking.
These statements are made by the Directors in good faith based onthe information available to them up to the time of approval of this report.
Such statements should be treated with caution due tothe inherent uncertainties and risks associated with forward looking information.
gOing cOncern The Groups business activities together with its financial position and the factors likely to affect its future development and performance are described within the Chief Executives Operating and Business review andin the Financial review on pages 22 to 25.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with a broad spread of customers across different geographic areas and industries.
NIGEL BOND GrOUP MANAGING DIrECTOr As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Directors have also considered the Groups forecasts and projections in the light of the we were able to produce record uncertain macroeconomic environment.
After making enquiries, the underlying profits of 59.5 million, Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence improving the underlying return on for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
salesof the Group to 18.9 per cent.
lOng-terM strategy and business Objective The Domino Group Domino is a world leading supplier of coding and marking products and provides a broad range of solutions to meet customers needs for product identification and traceability.
Our strategy is to continue to build the Groups product portfolio through innovation and acquisition and to provide our global customer base with superior products supported by the most comprehensive service and after sales infrastructure in our industry.
Domino designs, develops and manufactures industrial coding, marking, labelling and printing equipment for the high-speed printing of variable information onto products and packaging.
Our industry-leading product range includes printers, controllers, consumables and fluids for a broad spectrum of materials, as well as high quality after sales support and customer care.
Around 40 per cent of the Groups revenues come from sales of new equipment, the balance being generated from consumables and services to the customers using our equipment.
Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 11 Our businesses and distributors in the developing economies in Europe and those in Asia, the Middle East, Africa and South America all had good years, with excellent growth recorded in some individual countries.
NIGEL BOND GrOUP MANAGING DIrECTOr The Groups products are sold worldwide: we have representation SALES M in over 120 countries.
Approximately 45 per cent of the Groups turnover is in Europe, 35 per cent in Asia and Africa and 20 per 350 centin the Americas.
We serve customers in a broad range of market sectors.
300 trading review Following the difficult trading conditions in most parts of the world during 2008 and 2009, I commented in the Annual report 12 months ago that we had seen a recovery in most geographic regions and 250 market sectors for our products during 2010.
We entered 2011 with a level of market demand and stability that we had not experienced during the previous three financial years.
Our objective for 2011 was 200 to build on the progress of 2010, maintain the track record of growth 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and sustain the new levels of underlying returns achieved in the previous 12 months.
During the difficult years of 2008 and 2009 the Group still producedrecord levels of sales and profitability each year, and in nd 2010we recorded our 32 year of top line growth and improved the underlying return on sales to over 18 per cent.
We won a number of UNDERLYING PRETAX PROFIT M business awards, including company of the year at the Uk plc awards in 2010.
In the second half of 2010 we started to reinvest in the sales and 60 marketing resource levels of the business.
During the recession we invested heavily in research and 50 Development, culminating with a 36 per cent growth in development costs in 2010 as we brought to market our new range of Continuous 40 Ink Jet CIJ, laser and thermal printers.
These products were first exhibited in Paris in November 2010 and have been launched progressively around our global sales network.
30 Following the successes of 2010 we entered 2011 in optimistic mood 20 and produced encouraging levels of growth in sales and profits during 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 the first half year.
As the second half progressed, global economic issues started to surface once again, uncertainty in the financial stability of Europe impacted confidence levels around the world and we saw a slowdown in the rate of order conversion on capital equipment projects.
By the end of the year, the optimism of early 2011 had been replaced by conditions not too dissimilar to 2008, but with some differences, not least the rate of consumption of fluids and consumables by our customers remaining in line with our expectations, indicating production output levels holding up.
In 2008 we saw a decline in this key business metric.
Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 12 cHIEF EXEcUTIVES OPERATING AND BUSINESS REVIEw cONTINUED During the year we added a further 60 new positions in the sales, service and marketing functions taking the total additions to 130 since the beginning of 2010.
NIGEL BOND GrOUP MANAGING DIrECTOr Against this changing set of conditions, in 2011 we were still able to investMent in ten Media rd produce our 33 consecutive year of sales growth, achieving top line improvement every year since the Company was incorporated.
Sales Domino joined with NewMarket Impressions LLc to form a new company to develop and deploy grew to 314.1 million, up 5 per cent.
We were able to produce record proprietary food safety and traceability technologies for the US egg industry.
This new venture, TEN Media, will produce a marking and coding system that marks certified fresh dates and trace underlying profits of 59.5 million, improving the underlying return on codes onto the shells of individual eggs.
Traceability regulations require that if any egg within a sales of the Group to 18.9 per cent.
In uncertain market conditions we supermarket carton is damaged, the entire box must be discarded.
This means as many as 5 billion eggs annually are wasted!
TEN Medias new technology will print traceability information directly have again demonstrated the resilience and strength of our business on each egg, so that only the damaged ones need to be removed.
Domino will be the sole supplier model, based upon our reputation for quality and service and of the of both laser and ink jet coding equipment and also fluids and after market services.
value of our global sales and service network.
Geographically 2011 was a very mixed year.
Our businesses and distributors in the developing economies in Europe and those in Asia, the Middle East, Africa and South America all had good years, with excellent growth recorded in some individual countries.
Conditions in the more developed economies of Europe were far more difficult and in some, for example France and Spain, we did not achieve the levels ofbusiness we had anticipated when the year started in much brighter circumstances.
However, in contrast to that general statement, our Ukand German businesses both reported strong growth.
The results of our North American sales subsidiaries were disappointing, partly driven by market conditions, but internal management difficulties early in the year also held back progress.
These issues are now behind us and we are more optimistic about the year ahead.
Nonetheless, our US results were down on the prior year and remain below pre-recession levels.
Our non-Domino brand businesses also had a mixed year.
Continued demand for wire, cable and extrusion in the automotive and building products sectors helped Wiedenbach, our specialist ink jet printer business, grow its business by over 20 per cent.
Mectec had a strong year with double digit revenue growth and Citronix volumes grew well ahead of market rates, improving their overall global market share.
Purex and APS had less positive years: in the case of the former down to difficult conditions in its end markets: in the case of APS due to a slower uptake of its technology than anticipated, although we remain confident in its longer-term prospects.
During the year we added a further 60 new positions in the sales, service and marketing functions taking the total additions to 130 since the beginning of 2010.
This has helped expand our capacity in several important markets.
The combination of the full year effect of the additions in 2010 along with those added this year means selling and distribution costs grew by 11 per cent compared to the corresponding period last year.
In 2012 we do not expect to increase headcount significantly other than to meet the requirements of the TEN Media contract see below.
Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 13 new inK prOducts A NEW FAST-DrYING, HIGH PErFOrMANCE BLACk INk FOr USE ON A WIDE rANGE OF PLASTIC-BASED SUBSTrATES FOr OUr WOrLD LEADING A-SErIES rANGE OF CIJ PrINTErS.
THE 299Bk BLACk INk OFFErS ExCELLENT PErFOrMANCE AND rEADABILITY qUALITIES ON A HOST OF CHALLENGING PLASTIC MATErIALS WHErE GOOD ADHESION AND SCrATCH rESISTANCE ArE OFTEN DIFFICULT TO ACHIEVE.
We are pleased with the performance in the year of the new The impact of differing growth rates between printer and after market productswe launched in November 2010 and the follow on products sales and improved margins on the newer products meant we were launched at the Interpack exhibition in Dsseldorf in May 2011.
We are ableto increase our overall rate of gross margin to over 50 per cent.
optimistic that, with the majority of training and awareness programmes Wecontinue to benefit from the restructuring programme we completed, we have excellent prospects for these products in 2012.
In undertook in 2009, with more volume across fewer operating locations addition to the headline printer launches at the two major shows, 2011 enabling a favourable recovery of fixed costs.
However, we do now has been an exciting year for new ink and fluid product launches, with need to increase capacity, and the Board has approved new fluid and products for a number of the newer packaging materials launched, on printer facilities in both China and India, where volumes are now in both the CIJ and Thermal Ink Jet TIJ platforms.
We plan to introduce excess of levels built into the plans when our original buildings were an even more significant number of new fluids products in 2012 as we constructed over 10 years ago.
This year we built an extension on to seek differentiation and leadership.
our PALM facility in Sweden to cope with the growth in volume since we acquired the business in 2006.
The new range of Thermal Transfer Overprinting TTO products has been very well received by customers: the latest new product in this We have applied for planning permission to extend our main range will be available from the beginning of 2012.
The products have manufacturing facility in Cambridge.
We will not know the outcome some unique features and valuable benefits to customers enabling ofthis until early in 2012. growth in our share of the markets which demand this technology.
Our new range of lasers has allowed us to strengthen our market position in In April the Group invested $50 million for a 15 per cent equity key sectors.
Together with the new range of CIJ printers and extensions interest in TEN Media, a business based in California set up to to our ranges of TIJ printers and Print and Apply Labelling Machinery provide safety compliance and traceability data to the egg industry, PALM, we have built a competitive and comprehensive product initially in the USA, but eventually worldwide.
In the period since the range over the recent period.
research and Development expenditure investment was made we have been working closely with our partner was marginally lower this year than in 2010, a reflection of development to define the product requirement and system specifications as well phases rather than a reduction in projects or effort.
We continued as support their sales and marketing effort.
We expect first orders toinvest in core platform developments throughout the year: this from the venture in 2012. investment underpins our programme to reduce product range complexity in the future.
We should see the benefits of this work start I am writing this report at a time of great uncertainty in both the to roll out in 2013 providing a further enabler to improve operational eurozone and in global economies.
Predicting the future is never easy: efficiency and operating margins.
itis even more difficult in periods of such uncertainty which undoubtedly will impact customers investment decisions.
However, throughout the In the past two years we have been investing in the development of a period of 2008 to 2011, whenever we have faced difficult external range of digital label printers as an extension to our Digital formerly conditions, our fundamentals of service, product quality and decisive Commercial Printing business.
These products enable label producers management have ensured we continue to flourish and I am confident to generate short run, variable, high-quality labels for use in the food, about the long-term prospects for the Group.
In the fourth quarter we installed and invoiced our first units following extensive testing and validation of this technology.
We expect to place significant quantities of printers in 2012, worth several million pounds, based upon positive initial feedback on speed and print quality.
As mentioned at the beginning of my report, the market conditions NIGEL BOND GrOUP MANAGING DIrECTOr changed as the year unfolded.
However, sales of after market products 12 December 2011 achieved our budgeted levels for the year: we saw no discernible decline in the usage of our products in the field.
Overall after market revenues grew by 6 per cent over the prior year.
Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 14 Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 15 GROwTH IN ASIA DOMINOS MAIN PLANT IN cHINA PUDONG, SHANGHAI DOMINO HAS cONTINUED TO REALISE THE BENEFITSFROM ITS LONGTERM cOMMITMENT TOkEYEMERGING MARkETS New products have helped deliver recordresults in Dominos china business.
Our growth continues to outperform GDP and we hold a leading position in themarket.
we are pleased that, in recentsurveys, coding and marking users in china haveplaced Domino ahead of all competitors with respect to brand recognition, reliability and quality.
HENRIk LUNDSGAARD MANAGING DIREcTOR IN cHINA
