Supplier relationships The relationships with our suppliers are an increasingly important factor in Business review allowing us both to maintain high standards of product availability for our customers and to anticipate future customer needs.
We purchase some 550,000 products from around 2,500 major suppliers throughout the world with a groupwide focus on global purchasing agreements.
Our offer to electronics and maintenance engineers is valuable to many of our suppliers, who would Revenue grew by 21% year otherwise find the small order and immediate dispatch requirements of such customers difficult and costly to satisfy.
on year with all regions eCommerce eCommerce, representing around 49% of sales in the year, provides the delivering double digit Group with the ability to reach a broad customer base and critically to reach sales growth.
our target electronics customers who are conducting a greater proportion of their product research online.
The channel also allows us to extend and promote our online offer rapidly.
Online merchandising is being used to highlight to customers relevant products and information during their online journey providing improved customer experience and revenue opportunities.
We are increasingly focusing on the provision of online customer services giving our customers the flexibility they want to manage their business Nature of the business relationships with us online.
Electrocomponents is the worlds largest high service distributor of electronic Employees and maintenance products.
The Group operates in 32 countries and sells to The skills and support from our employees is extremely important to the most of the remaining countries of the world via third party distributors.
During the year we employed around 5,800 employees worldwide.
The Group satisfies the small quantity product needs of its customers who are The geographic split of our employees is: 1,900 in the UK, 1,300 in typically electronics or maintenance engineers in business.
A large number of Continental Europe, 800 in North America, 900 in Asia Pacific and 900 high quality goods are stocked, which are dispatched the same day that the in the Groupwide Processes.
The average customer order value is around 140 although Infrastructure the range of order values is wide.
The Group has a large number of customers The Group recognises that the provision of a high service level is from a wide range of industry sectors with diverse product demands.
This extremely important to our customers.
Three areas of our infrastructure means that the Group manages tens of thousands of orders for customers are particularly important: across the world each working day.
Systems: All our businesses in Continental Europe together with our Strategy UK business operate on a single integrated regional platform.
We continue to implement our strategy and have identified five areas to drive Operating on this robust and integrated platform enables us the Groups future performance.
A more detailed explanation of the strategy to improve efficiency, share best practice and reduce our and the progress that we have made on each of these areas is provided in the risk profile.
Our Asia Pacific and North America businesses Simon Boddie, Group Finance Director Chief Executives Review.
operate from separate systems and in North America we are progressing well in the planned replacement to their current Strengths and resources systems during the first half calendar 2012.
Brands Facilities: The Group has a well developed warehouse network across The Group has two brands.
The most significant of these is RS which is used all our markets to support our customer needs.
The operations all over the world, except in North America, where the Allied, brand is used.
and coordination at our warehouses is managed by our cross Geographic footprint group Supply Chain process to ensure an efficient and cost Our operating companies provide our high service offer across countries effective use of our assets.
representing around 80% of the worlds GDP.
The Groups distributors serve eCommerce: The Group operates from a single website platform supporting Russia, Southern Europe, the Middle East and South America representing a the RS businesses in the UK, Continental Europe and Asia further 10% of the worlds GDP.
This gives us the ability to roll out new developments Customer relationships across these regions, maximising the benefits to our customers.
We supply around 1.6m customers from a wide range of industrial sectors.
Allied, the Groups North American business, uses a separate We have relationships with both the end users who use our products and web platform.
also with the companies for whom they work.
Our customers are typically electronics and maintenance engineers.
18 Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review Supplier relationships The relationships with our suppliers are an increasingly important factor in Business review allowing us both to maintain high standards of product availability for our customers and to anticipate future customer needs.
Our Asia Pacific and North America businesses Chief Executives Review.
Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 19 Business review continued Profitability Revenue Operating performance and key The Groups return on sales grew by 2.0% points to 10.1%.
Return on capital performance indicators employed has increased by 7.5% points to 24.2%, which is approaching the Operating Performance 2011 2010 Groups medium term target of over 25%.
Revenue 1,182.2m 972.6m Profit before tax 1,182m Gross margin 47.1% 48.1% Headline profit before tax was 114m, an increase of 39.6m 53% over last Headline contribution 248.0m 190.7m year.
All regions contributed to this increase with International contribution increasing by 39.1m 36% and the UK increasing by 18.2m 22%.
The Group Process costs 128.2 m 111.5 m contribution increase was partially offset by 16.7m 15% higher Process Headline operating profit 119.8m 79.2m Return on Capital Employed costs and 1m higher interest costs.
The increased interest charge was Interest net 5.8 m 4.8 m impacted by the decision made last year to fix a proportion of the Groups debt Headline profit before tax 114.0 m 74.4m for a longer period.
Foreign exchange movements reduced operating profit by % Free cash flow 57.4m 71.9m around 2m compared to the prior year principally due to the strengthening of 24.2 Sterling against the Euro.
Headline earnings per share 18.0p 11.8p 1 increase of 7.5% points Dividend per share 11.5p 11.0p Reported profit before tax increased by 38m year on year with the 39.6m increase in headline profit before tax being reduced by the absence this year of one-off income of 1.6m.
Key Performance Indicators 2011 2010 Earnings per share 2 Group sales growth 21.0% 5.0 % Headline earnings per share of 18.0p increased 53% year on year in line with 2 International 25.3% 4.7 % the increase in headline pre tax profits.
2 UK 12.1% 5.6 % Dividends eCommerce revenue share 49% 43% The Board intends to recommend the payment of a final dividend of 6.5p per 3 Headline Group return on sales 10.1% 8.1% share to be paid on 22 July 2011 representing an 8% increase.
As a result the 4 Headline ROCE 24.2% 16.7% total dividend for the financial year will be increased by 5% to 11.5p per share.
Stock turn per year 2.7x 2.8x The Group maintained a high level of pay out during the recession recognising 5 Revenue per head 000 204 176 the importance of dividends to shareholders.
As a result of the strong financial performance of the business and our confidence in the Groups prospects, Number of customers millions 1.6 1.5 the Board is proposing to recommend an increased final dividend for the year.
Net debt to headline EBITDA 1.1x 1.6x The business has significant opportunities to invest for growth and therefore 6 Interest cover 23.4x 19.6x intends to maintain a strong balance sheet.
1 2011: includes 5p interim and 6.5p proposed final dividend Cash flow 2 Underlying revenue growth, adjusting for currency and trading days The Groups free cash flow for the year of 57.4m, representing 73% of 3 Headline operating profit expressed as a percentage of revenue 4 Headline operating profit expressed as a percentage of net assets plus net debt profit after tax, was lower than the previous year by 14.5m.
This movement 5 Revenue on a like for like basis 2011 and 2010 adjusting for trading days and foreign exchange was caused by the increase in the Groups profits offset by the 41.7m 6 Based upon headline EBITA: Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation inc. government grants net investment in working capital during the year, due to the strong sales performance and stock turn reducing by 0.1 times to 2.7 times.
This small Business performance reduction in stock turn reflected the businesss drive to both maintain its high Revenue service levels and also to invest in additional stock to drive sales performance Group revenue of 1,182.2m exceeded 1bn for the first time in the Groups in its international markets.
Revenue grew by 21% year on year with all the Groups regions delivering double digit sales growth.
The sales growth was 25% in the In 2012 we are planning to invest further to drive sales growth including International business and 12% in the UK.
Within the International business an additional 10m stock investment in China and capital expenditure Continental Europe grew by 22%, North America by 34% and Asia Pacific up from 22m to higher expenditure in the region of 35m.
Electronics was the fastest growing product category with growth expenditure in 2012 is expected to include the costs of implementing of 30% and eCommerce revenue grew by 37%.
a new system in North America and further investment in the Groups strategic initiatives including eCommerce.
Gross margin Gross margin at 47.1% was stable through the year.
Year on year gross margin Financial position declined by 1% point with the principal drivers being the strong growth of At 31 March 2011 net debt was 160.7m, which was 11.4m lower than the lower margin North American business and gross margin declines in the last year, due to free cash flow of 57.4m exceeding dividend payments UK and International businesses principally due to increased sales to large of 47.9m, with the balance of the movement largely being due to foreign customers, growth of new revenue streams and prior year electronics exchange.
At 31 March 2011 the Group had committed debt facilities and price repositioning.
loans of 298.6m with undrawn committed facilities of 133.4m.
Costs Year end net debt comprised gross borrowings of 167.0m currency split: Headline operating costs as a percentage of sales reduced by 3.0% points 59m US Dollars, 53m Sterling, 37m Euros, 10m Japanese Yen and the as the business delivered strong operating leverage.
Headline operating costs, balance in other currencies and financial assets of 6.3m.
The currency at constant foreign exchange, grew by 11.6% year on year as volume related mix is designed to help hedge the Groups translation exposures.
The peak costs increased in line with sales and the business invested in sales and month-end net borrowing during the year using monthly exchange rates marketing initiatives to drive performance.
These impacts were partially offset was 176.9m.
by the cost reduction initiatives which included the catalogue cost reduction programme, Supply Chain cost reductions and ongoing reduction of offline costs.
Revenue per head increased by 16% to 204,000.
20 Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review Profitability Profit before tax The Groups return on sales grew by 2.0% points to 10.1%.
Return on capital employed has increased by 7.5% points to 24.2%, which is approaching the Groups medium term target of over 25%.
Profit before tax 114m Headline profit before tax was 114m, an increase of 39.6m 53% over last year.
The contribution increase was partially offset by 16.7m 15% higher Process Headline earnings per share costs and 1m higher interest costs.
The increased interest charge was impacted by the decision made last year to fix a proportion of the Groups debt for a longer period.
Foreign exchange movements reduced operating profit by around 2m compared to the prior year principally due to the strengthening of 18.0p Sterling against the Euro.
increase of 53% Reported profit before tax increased by 38m year on year with the 39.6m increase in headline profit before tax being reduced by the absence this year of one-off income of 1.6m.
Earnings per share Headline earnings per share of 18.0p increased 53% year on year in line with the increase in headline pre tax profits.
Dividends The Board intends to recommend the payment of a final dividend of 6.5p per share to be paid on 22 July 2011 representing an 8% increase.
As a result the total dividend for the financial year will be increased by 5% to 11.5p per share.
The Group maintained a high level of pay out during the recession recognising the importance of dividends to shareholders.
As a result of the strong financial performance of the business and our confidence in the Groups prospects, the Board is proposing to recommend an increased final dividend for the year.
The business has significant opportunities to invest for growth and therefore intends to maintain a strong balance sheet.
Cash flow The Groups free cash flow for the year of 57.4m, representing 73% of profit after tax, was lower than the previous year by 14.5m.
This movement was caused by the increase in the Groups profits offset by the 41.7m net investment in working capital during the year, due to the strong sales performance and stock turn reducing by 0.1 times to 2.7 times.
This small reduction in stock turn reflected the businesss drive to both maintain its high service levels and also to invest in additional stock to drive sales performance in its international markets.
In 2012 we are planning to invest further to drive sales growth including an additional 10m stock investment in China and capital expenditure up from 22m to higher expenditure in the region of 35m.
The capital expenditure in 2012 is expected to include the costs of implementing a new system in North America and further investment in the Groups strategic initiatives including eCommerce.
Financial position At 31 March 2011 net debt was 160.7m, which was 11.4m lower than last year, due to free cash flow of 57.4m exceeding dividend payments of 47.9m, with the balance of the movement largely being due to foreign exchange.
At 31 March 2011 the Group had committed debt facilities and loans of 298.6m with undrawn committed facilities of 133.4m.
Year end net debt comprised gross borrowings of 167.0m currency split: 59m US Dollars, 53m Sterling, 37m Euros, 10m Japanese Yen and the balance in other currencies and financial assets of 6.3m.
The currency mix is designed to help hedge the Groups translation exposures.
The peak month-end net borrowing during the year using monthly exchange rates was 176.9m.
Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 21 Business review continued The Groups main sources of finance are a syndicated multicurrency facility made of dedicated internal sales teams to more speedily and effectively from ten banks for US$97m, 102m and 47m maturing in September 2012 manage customer queries and needs.
The centrally co-ordinated marketing and US$150m of Private Placement notes, split US$65m maturing June 2015 team have continued to promote the business offer with mass marketing and US$85m maturing June 2017.
Cross currency interest rate swaps have activities across the business exploiting the huge customer audience and been put in place to swap $60m of the Private Placement notes from fixed acquiring more customers and growing customer order frequency by more US$ to floating and US$40m from fixed US$ to floating.
The introduction across the region of around 37,000 new market leading International revenue International electronics products has been supported by cross region marketing campaigns 2 Restated Growth Growth 1 and the use of the Groups online marketing resources such as DesignSpark 2011 2010 reported underlying and DesignSpark PCB.
In Germany these electronics product launches and Revenue 825.9m 654.9m 26.1% 25.3% supporting initiatives have been very successful with particularly strong 826m Gross margin 46.2% 47.2% electronics sales growth.
Operating costs 235.6 m 201.8 m 16.7 % 15.7 % We have further developed our maintenance offer across Continental Europe Contribution 146.3m 107.2m 36.5% 38.5% with a particular initiative to create a common product offer across the region.
Contribution % of This activity is now substantially complete and this unique and broad pan International revenue growth revenue 17.7% 16.4% European offer has already delivered increased sales.
1 Adjusted for currency: revenue also adjusted for trading days eCommerce grew by 34% during the year and exited with a revenue share of 2 See Note 2 to the Group accounts 59% up from 53% last year.
This strong performance was driven by increased % search engine marketing and improved quotes functionality.
Sales force The International business represents 70% of Group revenue and comprises 25.3 activities have also been directed towards increasing customer visits to the three regions: Continental Europe 50% of the International business, North underlying regions web sites together with promotional campaigns growing customers America 32% and Asia Pacific 18%.
During the year, underlying revenue increased by 25% with Continental Europe Significant activities during the year included the launch of the web site in increasing by 22%, North America by 34% and Asia Pacific by 21%.
Switzerland and, in January, of the Eastern Europe business.
The Eastern Gross margin was stable across the year, however year on year the Europe business is a full eCommerce offer providing customers in Poland, the International gross margin declined by around 1.0% points.
This decline was Czech Republic and Hungary with local language and priced web sites.
These impacted by the strong growth of the lower gross margin North America offer over 550,000 electronics and maintenance products with the same day business and gross margin reduction in the Continental Europe region due to despatch that is offered to our other customers in the European region.
To date the successful growth of new revenue streams such as larger orders together customer reaction has been very positive with sales to both local and larger with growing sales to larger customers attracting higher customer discounts.
The International business has delivered cost leverage, with costs as a North America percentage of sales reducing by 2.3% points year on year.
Contribution 2 Restated Growth Growth increased by 36% year on year and the International contribution margin 1 2011 2010 reported underlying increased 1.3% points to 17.7%.
Revenue 262.3m 191.5m 37.0% 33.5% Continental Europe Continental Europe contribution Contribution 42.5m 24.9m 70.7% 66.6% 2 Restated Growth Growth Contribution % of 1 2011 2010 reported underlying revenue 16.2% 13.0% Revenue 413.6m 350.0m 18.2% 22.3% 1 Adjusted for currency: revenue also adjusted for trading days Contribution 90.5m 75.8m 19.4% 24.6% 90.5m 2 See Note 2 to the Group accounts Contribution % of Allied, our North American business, reported strong underlying sales growth revenue 21.9% 21.7% of 34% during the year.
This sales performance, combined with ongoing 1 Adjusted for currency: revenue also adjusted for trading days cost control and the businesss operating cost leverage, resulted in a 71% 2 See Note 2 to the Group accounts increase in contribution 67% at constant foreign exchange.
Contribution as a percentage of sales increased 3.2% points to 16.2%.
Our business is the largest high service distributor in Continental Europe and comprises ten markets.
The largest of these are France, Germany and Italy and During the year, the Allied management team has continued to implement its the remaining businesses are Austria, Benelux, Eastern Europe comprising longstanding and consistently executed strategy.
This has involved particular Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary, Republic of Ireland, Scandinavia, focus on further developing customer relationships through the unique sales Spain and Switzerland.
office network, accelerating customer acquisition, adding new products and growing eCommerce revenue.
During the year Europe reported strong underlying revenue growth of 22% and contribution growth of 19% 25% at constant foreign exchange.
The benefits Sales and marketing activities are centred on the businesss unique network of costs reducing as a % of sales were partially offset by the gross margin of 54 sales offices.
These included targeted joint sales and marketing customer reduction due to the growth in large customer revenues driven by around calls and visits with suppliers which have resulted in the business winning an 30 large customer account wins and the growth of new revenue streams increasing number of new customer accounts with the final quarter acquisition including larger orders.
rate running at around 50% higher than 18 months earlier.
The pan European focus of the regional management team has been a key During the year, Allied added a further 28,000 new products to its portfolio with driver in supporting the efficient and rapid application of effective sales and nine new suppliers including Hoffman, Kingbright and APEM.
The business has marketing initiatives across the entire region.
Recent activities have involved continued its focus on building its brand awareness with national and cable the territory sales forces moving to a more customer portfolio approach with television campaigns to exploit Allieds strong product areas.
increased targeting of customers where sales potential has been identified.
Other improvements to salesforce effectiveness include greater use being 22 Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review made of dedicated internal sales teams to more speedily and effectively eCommerce revenue growth in manage customer queries and needs.
The centrally co-ordinated marketing Continental Europe team have continued to promote the business offer with mass marketing activities across the business exploiting the huge customer audience and acquiring more customers and growing customer order frequency by more % than 10%.
34 The introduction across the region of around 37,000 new market leading underlying electronics products has been supported by cross region marketing campaigns and the use of the Groups online marketing resources such as DesignSpark and DesignSpark PCB.
In Germany these electronics product launches and supporting initiatives have been very successful with particularly strong electronics sales growth.
We have further developed our maintenance offer across Continental Europe with a particular initiative to create a common product offer across the region.
This activity is now substantially complete and this unique and broad pan European offer has already delivered increased sales.
eCommerce grew by 34% during the year and exited with a revenue share of 59% up from 53% last year.
This strong performance was driven by increased search engine marketing and improved quotes functionality.
Sales force activities have also been directed towards increasing customer visits to the regions web sites together with promotional campaigns growing customers order values.
Significant activities during the year included the launch of the web site in Switzerland and, in January, of the Eastern Europe business.
The Eastern Europe business is a full eCommerce offer providing customers in Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary with local language and priced web sites.
These offer over 550,000 electronics and maintenance products with the same day despatch that is offered to our other customers in the European region.
To date customer reaction has been very positive with sales to both local and larger multinational customers.
North America North America revenue growth 2 Restated Growth Growth 1 2011 2010 reported underlying % Revenue 262.3m 191.5m 37.0% 33.5% Contribution 42.5m 24.9m 70.7% 66.6% 33.5 underlying Contribution % of revenue 16.2% 13.0% 1 Adjusted for currency: revenue also adjusted for trading days 2 See Note 2 to the Group accounts North America contribution as Allied, our North American business, reported strong underlying sales growth of 34% during the year.
This sales performance, combined with ongoing % of revenue cost control and the businesss operating cost leverage, resulted in a 71% increase in contribution 67% at constant foreign exchange.
Contribution % as a percentage of sales increased 3.2% points to 16.2%.
16.2 During the year, the Allied management team has continued to implement its longstanding and consistently executed strategy.
This has involved particular increase of 3.2% points focus on further developing customer relationships through the unique sales office network, accelerating customer acquisition, adding new products and growing eCommerce revenue.
Sales and marketing activities are centred on the businesss unique network of 54 sales offices.
These included targeted joint sales and marketing customer calls and visits with suppliers which have resulted in the business winning an increasing number of new customer accounts with the final quarter acquisition rate running at around 50% higher than 18 months earlier.
During the year, Allied added a further 28,000 new products to its portfolio with nine new suppliers including Hoffman, Kingbright and APEM.
The business has continued its focus on building its brand awareness with national and cable television campaigns to exploit Allieds strong product areas.
Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 23 Business review continued eCommerce revenue grew by 80% with eCommerce revenue share exiting at eCommerce revenue growth UK 39% compared to 32% last year.
This performance has been driven by a more 2 in North America Restated Growth Growth 1 than doubling of search engine marketing, links to relevant social networking 2011 2010 reported underlying sites and increasing use of online email campaigns and prize draws.
As web Revenue 356.3m 317.7m 12.1% 12.1% traffic has increased so has the businesss investment with increased web site % Gross margin 49.0% 50.1% capacity, improved online quotes functionality and recently the introduction of 80 Operating costs 72.8 m 75.6 m 3.6% 3.6% market leading search engine functionality.
underlying Contribution 101.7m 83.5m 21.8% 21.8% The project to replace the legacy system in Allied with a new SAP based Contribution % of ERP system is progressing well with a planned go live date in the first half revenue 28.5% 26.3% of calendar year 2012.
The delivery team includes our North American employees, Group Information Systems function and employees from the 1 Revenue adjusted for trading days rest of the Group with experience of the Groups earlier ERP projects.
This 2 See Note 2 to the Group accounts implementation will give the business a more robust platform for growth as The UK continued to grow throughout the year reporting underlying sales well as delivering operating benefits.
The total cash cost estimate remains at growth of 12% and operating costs reduced by nearly 4% as a result around 15m with planned cost expenditure during the coming financial year of continued cost management.
Consequently the business reported of around 3m and 9m capital expenditure.
22% contribution growth and a 2.2% point increase in contribution as a Asia Pacific percentage of sales to 28.5%.
Contribution at over 100m is now above Asia Pacific revenue 2 pre-recession levels.
Restated Growth Growth 1 2011 2010 reported underlying The UK management team has successfully leveraged the Groups strategy, Revenue 150.0m 113.4m 32.3% 20.7% in particular the electronics offer and growing eCommerce channel, as well Contribution 13.3m 6.5m 104.6% 77.6% as further developing new revenue streams whilst closely controlling its costs.
150m Contribution % The electronics offer has been further improved with 37,000 new market of revenue 8.9% 5.7% leading products supported by technical marketing campaigns promoting our market leading online tools including 3D CAD, DesignSpark and DesignSpark 1 Adjusted for currency: revenue also adjusted for trading days 2 See Note 2 to the Group accounts PCB.
These initiatives, together with the benefits of the UKs specialised sales Asia Pacific contribution growth force, resulted in electronics being the best performing category.
The Groups business in Asia Pacific is the regions market leader operating across twelve countries with around 900 employees complemented by local eCommerce revenue grew by 24% during the year, with eCommerce revenue % language web sites.
share exiting at 57% up from 52% last year end.
This strong performance 77.6 was driven by a number of initiatives.
These included increased search engine During the year the region reported underlying sales growth of 21% which underlying marketing bringing more customers to the UKs web site, promotional activities together with operating leverage created a more than doubling of contribution with, for example, value for money flags being used throughout the customer 78% at constant foreign exchange.
Contribution as a percentage of sales journey to increase order conversion rates and targeted campaigns increasing increased by 3.2% points to 8.9%.
We have continued to develop initiatives to further strengthen our number one New revenue opportunities have been developed with the UKs flexible pricing position in the region.
In Japan we have benefited from our larger electronics offer, which satisfies larger customer orders at competitive prices, proving product range and last years semiconductors price repositioning to drive sales successful with customers using this service growing at more than double the growth of 29%.
In Australasia the sales and marketing teams have successfully rate of the rest of the business as a whole.
focused on sales opportunities with larger corporate customers and the growing resource sector.
Underlying gross margin was stable through the year.
The businesss success in developing new business through large customer accounts, new revenue eCommerce revenue grew by 42% during the year, with eCommerce revenue streams and prior year electronics price repositioning, together with the share exiting at 51% up from 35% last year end.
This performance was driven effect of weaker Sterling resulted in a year on year decline in gross margin by ongoing investment in improved functionality including online quotes and of 1.1% points.
additional payment methods which together with increased search engine marketing increased the number of online customers by the year end by The business has continued to focus on cost control and efficiency which has around 60%.
During the year eCommerce supported the regions expansion led to operating costs reducing by around 20% over the last five years.
with a new local language web site being launched in South Korea to a positive This year, despite the significant increase in sales, operating costs have local customer reaction.
reduced by around 3m principally due to lower catalogue print volumes in line In China our electronics products had strong growth with semiconductor with increasing online usage and other print efficiencies, benefits from recent integrated circuits sales increasing by 79% year on year.
To extend freight carrier changes and the warehouse site specialisation last year together our leadership position in the huge Chinese market we opened a new with lower pension costs.
This investment will enable a ca.
50,000 increase in locally stocked product lines, enhancing the local service offer, and in the Processes next financial year it is anticipated that 10m of additional stock will be made Change Change 1 available in the warehouse.
2011 2010 reported underlying Our business in Japan was not directly impacted by the earthquake that hit the Process costs 128.2 m 111.5 m 15.0 % 14.6 % country in mid March and our team has worked hard and continued to operate Costs % of revenue 10.9 % 11.5 % the business and meet customers and suppliers needs.
In the second half of 1 Adjusted for currency March sales in Japan, which represent around 3% of the Group, were at similar levels to the previous year.
24 Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review UK revenue growth UK 2 Restated Growth Growth 1 2011 2010 reported underlying % Revenue 356.3m 317.7m 12.1% 12.1% 12.1 Gross margin 49.0% 50.1% Operating costs 72.8 m 75.6 m 3.6% 3.6% Contribution 101.7m 83.5m 21.8% 21.8% Contribution % of UK contribution % of revenue revenue 28.5% 26.3% 1 Revenue adjusted for trading days 2 See Note 2 to the Group accounts % The UK continued to grow throughout the year reporting underlying sales 28.5 growth of 12% and operating costs reduced by nearly 4% as a result of continued cost management.
Consequently the business reported 22% contribution growth and a 2.2% point increase in contribution as a percentage of sales to 28.5%.
Contribution at over 100m is now above pre-recession levels.
The UK management team has successfully leveraged the Groups strategy, in particular the electronics offer and growing eCommerce channel, as well as further developing new revenue streams whilst closely controlling its costs.
The electronics offer has been further improved with 37,000 new market leading products supported by technical marketing campaigns promoting our market leading online tools including 3D CAD, DesignSpark and DesignSpark PCB.
These initiatives, together with the benefits of the UKs specialised sales force, resulted in electronics being the best performing category.
eCommerce revenue grew by 24% during the year, with eCommerce revenue share exiting at 57% up from 52% last year end.
This strong performance was driven by a number of initiatives.
These included increased search engine marketing bringing more customers to the UKs web site, promotional activities with, for example, value for money flags being used throughout the customer journey to increase order conversion rates and targeted campaigns increasing customer order values.
New revenue opportunities have been developed with the UKs flexible pricing offer, which satisfies larger customer orders at competitive prices, proving successful with customers using this service growing at more than double the rate of the rest of the business as a whole.
The businesss success in developing new business through large customer accounts, new revenue streams and prior year electronics price repositioning, together with the effect of weaker Sterling resulted in a year on year decline in gross margin of 1.1% points.
The business has continued to focus on cost control and efficiency which has led to operating costs reducing by around 20% over the last five years.
This year, despite the significant increase in sales, operating costs have reduced by around 3m principally due to lower catalogue print volumes in line with increasing online usage and other print efficiencies, benefits from recent freight carrier changes and the warehouse site specialisation last year together with lower pension costs.
Processes Change Change 1 2011 2010 reported underlying Process costs 128.2 m 111.5 m 15.0 % 14.6 % Costs % of revenue 10.9 % 11.5 % 1 Adjusted for currency Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 25 Business review continued The Groupwide Processes principally comprise Maintenance, Electronics, Under IAS 19, the combined gross deficit of the Groups defined benefit New electronics products eCommerce, Supply Chain and Information Systems.
Between them these schemes was 5.4m at 31 March 2011.
This balance comprised a 4.8m Processes have responsibility for the identification, introduction and sourcing deficit in Germany, 0.4m deficit in the Republic of Ireland and 0.2m deficit of the Groups products, managing supplier relationships, developing the in the UK.
Groups eCommerce strategy and development, managing the Groups The largest defined benefit scheme is in the UK where the accounting 37,000 stock both quantity and location and the Groups worldwide IT infrastructure.
valuation as at 31 March 2011 disclosed a surplus of 24.9m, which was an During the year, the Processes accelerated their activities delivering an improvement of 35.1m on last year.
This improvement was principally caused increasing number of initiatives to support the delivery of the Groups strategy.
by reducing liabilities due to weaker mortality assumptions following a detailed review, increased discount rates and lower inflation assumptions together The Electronics division introduced 37,000 new products from strategic with actuarial gains caused by member experience and returns on assets suppliers including Panasonic, Tyco Electronics, Texas Instruments and Analog being higher than expected.
The 24.9m surplus has not been recognised Devices, and in July launched the Groups market leading online design tool in the Group accounts, as per IFRIC14, which results in a small 0.2m deficit.
The Maintenance team has focused on growing markets introducing new Process, Control and Automation The triennial funding valuation of the UK defined benefit pension scheme as products and products required in renewable energy applications.
Across at 31 March 2010 has now been completed and disclosed a deficit of 1.6m.
Europe the Maintenance offer was levelled up to create an unequalled and A recovery plan has been agreed with the Pension Scheme Trustees and common offer across the entire region driving further sales growth.
consequently the Group made 0.75m deficit recovery contributions to the pension scheme during the financial year ended 31 March 2011 and will The new leadership of the Groups eCommerce team has renewed the make contributions of around 0.3m per annum for the next four years.
strategic focus on transforming the customer experience and placing eCommerce at the heart of our business and its sales and marketing Principal risks and uncertainties strategies.
The eCommerce team launched five new web sites during Governance the year across South Korea, Switzerland, Poland, Hungary and the Czech The Group has well established risk management and internal control Republic to support the Asia Pacific and European regional growth strategies.
processes for the identification, assessment and management of the strategic, During the year the team introduced a number of new and innovative operational, financial and compliance risks likely to affect the achievement applications.
These included the launch on the iPad of the Groups already of the Groups corporate and strategic objectives.
popular eTech magazine for electronics design engineers.
This is an industry first, providing a new way to display product information with additional detail, The risk management process images and video animation.
More recently, during April, we launched RS The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups risk management Partsfinder: an easy to use plug in browser enabling instant access to the process with the Audit Committee reviewing its effectiveness.
This provides an even easier mechanism for engineers to find, management of risk is delegated to the Group Executive Committee GEC buy and design with the components that they need.
who are accountable for the implementation and management of risk mitigation activities.
Supply Chain maintained the businesss high service levels to customers whilst controlling stock and reducing costs as a percentage of sales.
During the year, The GEC conducts a formal review and assessment of the potential risks to the the team implemented market leading stock forecast and planning systems Groups strategy at the start of each financial year, and prioritises the agreed together with supporting team structures and managed changes to a number risks according to an assessment of the Groups risk tolerance limits.
The of freight providers and more recently the moving of the Shanghai, China output of this process is reported to the Board for review.
warehouse to a new larger location.
All agreed Group risks have an allocated Executive Committee risk owner The Groups Information Systems Process oversees and manages the Groups who is responsible to the GEC for developing a risk plan that identifies the transactional systems and eCommerce platform.
During the year the team has risk scenarios, documents the risk exposures and monitors performance.
also provided support and assistance to our North American business who are The GEC receive scheduled updates on the major business risks and review progressing with activities to implement its new SAP based ERP systems in new or developing risks for their potential effects on the business.
The Board the first half of calendar 2012. receive scheduled summaries of the prioritised Group major risks from the Process costs as a percentage of sales reduced by 0.6 % points as the respective GEC risk owners during the year, together with updates to the business benefited from the leveraging of the fixed cost base.
The continued Groups risk register.
investment in the implementation of the electronics and eCommerce All operational businesses complete an annual combined risk and controls strategies, together with increased variable costs associated with the strong profile, which feeds into the overall risk assessment process that is International sales growth and new product introductions resulted in Process reviewed by the GEC, and by the Audit Committee in the annual Risk costs increasing by 14.6% at constant exchange rates.
The results of the risk assessment are factored into the audit plan to focus audit testing on key controls within the business.
Taxation The Groups effective tax rate was 31% of headline profit before tax, which Principal risks and uncertainties was the same as the prior year.
The Groups current effective tax rate includes The table on pages 28 and 29 presents the principal risks to the achievement the effect of a significant and continuing increase in the deferred tax liability of the Groups strategic objectives as identified through the risk management due to the tax amortisation of overseas goodwill.
This deferred tax liability is process described above.
not expected to crystallise in the foreseeable future.
This combined with the The risks are described in terms of their likely impacts and opportunities, the impact of the phasing of tax payments means that the effective tax rate was measures that are applied in monitoring the risk, and the mitigating actions that significantly higher than the cash tax rate of 19%.
form the main elements of the risk plan.
Pension The senior executives responsible for the management of risks are required The Group has defined benefit pension schemes in the UK, the Republic of to report on progress with their respective risk plans to the GEC and the Board, Ireland and Germany.
All these schemes are closed to new entrants and in to ensure the risk and the mitigating actions are appropriate and proportionate.
Germany the pension scheme is closed to accruals for future service.
26 Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review The Groupwide Processes principally comprise Maintenance, Electronics, Under IAS 19, the combined gross deficit of the Groups defined benefit eCommerce, Supply Chain and Information Systems.
Groups eCommerce strategy and development, managing the Groups The largest defined benefit scheme is in the UK where the accounting stock both quantity and location and the Groups worldwide IT infrastructure.
Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 27 Business review continued Risk Impact Key Risk Measures Mitigating actions Pricing Threat Gross margin Dynamic pricing strategy Customers value the high service model less in a price Pressure on gross margin Value for money VfM performance Adapt sale prices in response to and in anticipation sensitive market.
of external factors Lower sales if we do not act quickly Competitor price matching coverage The risk is that our competitors close the service gap and Increase price matches with competitor products Opportunity Frequency of price reviews become more competitive on price.
Differentiated by industry leading service levels Continued focus on customer service RS Brand sales growth Sales opportunity for value RS brand products Monitor and maintain customer service On Time in Full performance indicators Macro Economic Conditions Threat Free cash flow Strong balance sheet The improving global economic conditions remain vulnerable to major Reduced sales Available headroom in banking covenants and facilities Significant headroom to the Groups banking covenants shocks such as a further banking crisis or sovereign debt defaults.
and facilities Lowering of operational leverage Working capital metrics The Groups sales and profits could be exposed by a worsening Cost management Excess stock Costs of global economic conditions and a loss of business confidence.
Geographic spread of business Bad debts increase Working capital management Funding shortfall Opportunity Focus on markets served by smaller competitors Customers reduce stock holding and use RS to source and supply components Risks from the implementation of the Allied ERP system Threat Project milestones monitored through formal project Specialist consultancy support embedded in the The implementation of the new ERP platform in the Allied business Steering Group with Executive Committee oversight implementation team Project costs are higher than anticipated holds inherent risks as with any project of this scale, including the Project costs and benefits reviewed by Steering Group Approved project governance procedures in place Project does not deliver expected business benefits potential distraction from business as usual activities.
Project risks and major risks logs monitored by Group Close review and monitoring by Allied management team, Project deadlines are not achieved with executive committee oversight Opportunity Benefits management process Provides a robust platform for business growth and the development of new service opportunities Improved management information Customer acquisition, retention and frequency of spend is Threat New customer acquisition Customer acquisition campaign insufficient to meet strategy objectives Insufficient numbers of new customers Average order frequency Brand awareness programmes in new markets The business does not attract sufficient numbers of new customers, Development of new customers behind target Metrics on new customers purchasing behaviours Development programme to influence new customer and is unable to develop new and existing customer behaviour to purchasing behaviours increase order frequency at a sustained level.
Average order frequency does not improve Customer retention metrics Improvements to the eCommerce customer journey Unable to achieve sustainable sales growth Customer satisfaction survey Targeted and relevant mass marketing programmes Opportunity Increased sales and profitability Continuing high levels of new product introductions Sustained growth in market share Web conversion rate Product data quality and content reduces eCommerce Threat Ongoing programmes to improve product data and content quality effectiveness eCommerce sales are not optimised Sales credits Customer expectations and experiences monitored through The risk is that current information and data structures inhibit the customer surveys Poor customer experience relative to competitors Proportion of product data cleansed future effectiveness of the eCommerce offer.
Localisation of product hierarchies Competitors are quicker to innovate and develop new web functionality Customer satisfaction survey The risk anticipates increasing market demands for faster rates of new Governance structure for new product introductions product introductions, price changes and provision of comprehensive Opportunity product information.
Increase of eCommerce sales Improve cross selling within the eCommerce offer Better search and find attracts new customers 28 Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review Risk Impact Key Risk Measures Mitigating actions Pricing Threat Gross margin Dynamic pricing strategy Customers value the high service model less in a price Pressure on gross margin Value for money VfM performance Adapt sale prices in response to and in anticipation sensitive market.
Increase of eCommerce sales Improve cross selling within the eCommerce offer Better search and find attracts new customers Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 29
