BUS BuS BuSineSS RevieW 642m 67m Revenue OPeRATinG PROFiT At Go-Ahead we are committed to providing high quality, reliable services for our passengers in the many areas in which we operate OUr BUs HiGHliGHTs AT A GlAnCE 2011 Bus highlights Bus revenue by operating company 2011 2011 2010 2011 m 2010 m Total bus operations Go-Ahead London 290.0 296.5 Revenue m 642.4 629.5 Go North East 89.3 86.2 Operating profit m 67.1 63.7 Metrobus 80.4 77.6 Margin 10.4% 10.1% Go South Coast 75.5 74.2 Brighton & hove 50.2 49.7 Deregulated bus Oxford Bus 34.2 34.4 Revenue m 290.9 273.4 Plymouth Citybus 18.0 9.6 Operating profit m 33.7 27.2 Konectbus 4.3 1.3 Margin 11.6% 9.9% Thames Travel 0.5 0.0 Total Bus 642.4 629.5 Regulated bus Revenue m 351.5 356.1 Operating profit m 33.4 36.5 2011 revenue split Margin 9.5% 10.2% 2.8% 0.7% 0.1% 5.3% Revenue growth 7.8% Deregulated 5.1% 7.4% 9.0% Regulated 2.3 % 1.3 % 6.5% 11.8% 45.1% volume growth 12.5% Deregulated passenger journeys 2.3% 4.7% 8.7% Brighton & Hove 13.9% Regulated miles operated 0.6 % 0.8 % 7.4% Go-Ahead London Oxford Bus Go North East Plymouth Citybus Before amortisation and exceptional items.
On a like-for-like basis, adjusting to 52 weeks in 2010 Metrobus Konectbus and excluding acquisitions.
Go South Coast Thames Travel Our brands konectbus konectbus The Go-Ahead Gr The Go-Ahead Group plc oup plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2011 Accounts 2011 36 36 our buS perforMance Go-Ahead is one of the UKs leading bus operators.
We are the largest operator in London, with around 21% market share, and operate in Oxford, East Anglia and southern, south east and north east England.
We also operate a yellow school bus joint venture in North America Bus services are an essential form of travel in our cities and rural areas.
For some people, it is their only means of transport and for others it is a positive choice because it is cost effective, reliable and convenient.
Go-Ahead understands what passengers value from our services and that is why delivering quality is at the forefront of everything we do.
Getting that right is why we have continued to see growth.
Our core strategy We are a passenger focused business providing quality services in predominantly urban areas across the UK.
While many of the markets in which we operate have common features, each has its own unique characteristics.
That is why we employ locally based management teams who have a thorough understanding of their local markets.
All of our companies have local identities and branding which we believe our passengers value.
We take an active role in the communities we serve so that our companies are part of their local communities.
This enables our businesses to respond quickly and appropriately to changing local needs.
Our aim is to grow our market share of the UK bus industry organically and through value adding bolt-on acquisitions, particularly outside London, where we believe there is considerable growth potential.
While our focus is the UK transport market, we continue to look at opportunities overseas.
We are now one year into Our key achievements for 2011 the operation of our yellow school bus joint venture in North Record operating profit achieved in America and we have established ourselves as a reliable and the financial year credible operator in the market.
Passenger numbers and passenger The uK bus market revenue growth across all deregulated The use of public transport is growing, and within that market, operations the bus is the most frequently used mode of transport in the Acquisition of Thames Travel during 1 UK.
Around 5.2 billion passenger journeys are made each year the year on UK bus networks.
Introduction of The Key across more of our bus operations 1 Department for Transport, June 2011. www.
com 37 Performance Review BUS BUSINESS REvIEW CONTINUED 2 The london market Regulated market London bus market share The majority of public transport journeys in London take place 2% 5% on the bus, over two billion a year compared with around one Go-Ahead 21% 9% 1 billion on the London Underground.
The short to medium term Arriva prospects in this market are positive.
In its latest business plan, TfL Stagecoach stated that mileage in the London bus network would be protected, 13% ComfortDelGro following the Comprehensive Spending Review in October 2010.
With buses being such a vital form of transport, combined with FirstGroup congestion charging and a limited ability to expand the tube 20% RATP network, we expect the London bus market to remain very resilient 14% Abellio in the long term.
16% Other The rest of the uK Deregulated market Bus services outside London are comprised of commercial routes 3 UK deregulated bus market share and tendered contracts and are run by private operators.
The short to medium term prospects in this market are good as an FirstGroup 24% increasing number of people switch from private car to bus travel.
Stagecoach 31% We are introducing smartcard technology across our networks Arriva to make travel even easier and more convenient.
We believe this, National Express combined with an increased marketing focus, will further enhance prospects over the next 12 months.
Go-Ahead Others 6% 20% Our business model 7% Go-Ahead operates in the UK bus market through nine business 12% units: Go-Ahead London, Go North East, Go South Coast, Metrobus, Brighton & hove, Oxford Bus Company, Plymouth The UK bus market is comprised of two models: the London Citybus, Konectbus and Thames Travel.
market which is regulated by Transport for London TfL : and the rest of the UK which is deregulated and largely operated The Group has around 21% of the London bus market, through 4 on a fully commercial basis.
Its operations in the rest of the UK give around a 6% share of the deregulated UK bus market.
The bus market has remained resilient and has indeed grown despite the wider economic conditions the UK faces.
Our london operations Go-Ahead has been a major player in the London bus market The costs of motoring continue to rise, while bus fares on our since the early 1990s.
We currently have a market share of around services continue to offer excellent value.
With the cost gap 21%, operating over 100 bus routes and carrying approximately between car and bus continuing to grow, an increasing number one million passengers a day.
of former car users are switching to the bus.
Our success in the London bus market is the result of our strong and experienced management team who are committed 1 Transport for London, September 2010. to running high quality, frequent bus services in the capital: and 2 Go-Ahead analysis.
our network of well located freehold depots, through which we 3 Go-Ahead analysis.
4 Around 70% of Metrobus operations are in the regulated, London market.
are able to achieve cost efficiencies.
KEEPING OUR PASSENGERS INFORMED Across our businesses we have seen some pioneering use of social media to keep customers informed of service updates in a real time environment, particularly useful during the heavy snow in January 2011.
Customers used sites such as Facebook to check key which services were running and to add commentary themselves to keep other customers updated.
Go North East, in particular, was commended for its use of social media during this time with the initiativeS number of Facebook fans jumping from 6,000 to 30,000 in just two weeks.
thiS year Customer Relationship Management CRM and social media are areas that we will continue to develop across the Group.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 38 Transport for london All London bus routes are regulated by TfL which issues tenders for route contracts.
These contracts are typically five years long with a potential two year extension based largely on performance.
They are awarded to private operators on a cost per mile basis.
TfL contracts are price index adjusted, designed to offset inflationary increases in costs.
As a result, operators profits are typically not impacted by inflationary changes.
Quality incentive Contracts In addition to earning revenue per mile, we also generate revenue through good performance.
TfL sets performance targets called Quality Incentive Contracts QICs to incentivise high quality service provision.
Operators receive cash bonuses when targets are met and are penalised if performance falls short.
We consistently rank highly in TfL performance league tables.
In 2010, our QIC bonus revenue totalled 12.3m, comprised of 8.8m earned against QIC1 targets based on punctuality and 3.5m through QIC2 targets based on factors such as bus driver attitude and bus cleanliness.
Quality incentive bonuses earned in the financial year just ended totalled 8.0m.
This decrease is due to two, previously reported factors.
In March 2010, TfL withdrew QIC2 as a cost saving measure, as such all QIC revenue reported for the financial We have seen growth in passenger numbers across all of our bus operations in the year just ended was derived from QIC1.
In addition, the ability to year to 2 July 2011. earn QIC1 bonuses has declined in the period as more challenging performance targets have been introduced.
As a result of this strategy we have not been significantly exposed to local authority spending cuts.
The rest of the uK We focus our operations in the rest of the UK on dense, urban We have good relationships with local authorities which are key operations where we offer high quality, frequent and convenient to our success as an operator in this market.
services that are excellent value.
Our locally focused, passenger oriented businesses are able to respond swiftly to the individual 2011 performance overview needs of the communities they serve.
Our companies set their The performance of our bus operations was strong, with own fares on a commercial basis but work closely with local operating profit at record levels.
authorities and other stakeholders to provide services to Revenue increased by 2.0%, or 12.9m, to 642.4m 2010: meet local demand.
629.5m, consisting of 17.6m or 2.8% from acquisitions and a local authorities decrease of 1.3% due to this year being one week shorter than All of our companies outside of London operate on a largely the comparative period.
Like-for-like growth was a net 0.4%, with commercial basis with less than 10% of our services being growth across the deregulated businesses of 4.1% being offset by an expected and previously reported reduction of 2.4% in our London operations.
Operating profit was 67.1m, increasing in the year by 3.4m or MAKING TRAvEL SIMPLER FOR OUR PASSENGERS 5.3% 2010: 63.7m, marking a return to the record profit levels Go-Ahead has introduced The Key, our achieved in 2009.
Of this increase 2.6m was due to acquisitions Group-wide smartcard designed to provide with like-for-like increases in our deregulated business being largely best value tickets to regular customers, offset by reductions in our regulated operations.
into more of our businesses.
The Key makes travelling simpler for our passengers, saving Operating profit margin increased to 10.4% 2010: 10.1% them time and money.
despite a fall in the operating margin in our regulated business.
This years operating profit has benefited from a like-for-like Combining this with significant advances in reduction in costs for the commodity cost of fuel of 6m and CRM software means we better understand increases in the Bus Service Operators Grant BSOG receivable our customers and are better placed to from implementation of ITSO Smartcard technology in our cross sell products across the business and deregulated fleet.
However, these benefits have been largely offset inform customers of special offers by additional duty costs and increased accident claim costs of 6.3m.
Our regulated operations have seen the highest claims cost increases and we are now undertaking a detailed review of operating procedures and claims cost management.
com 39 Performance Review BUS BUSINESS REvIEW CONTINUED Go-Aheads London bus depots Hertfordshire Essex Eneld Barnet Harrow Waltham Haringey Forest Buckinghamshire Redbridge Havering Brent Hackney Camden Islington Barking and Dagenham Newham Tower Hamlets Ealing Hillingdon Slough London Thurrock Southwark Belvedere Greenwich Hounslow Windsor and Bexley Maidenhead Wandsworth Richmond Lewisham Lambeth Merton Kingston Upon Thames Bromley Sutton Croydon Kent performance, excluding acquisitions, remained strong.
Revenue 2009 10 acquisitions growth was achieved in each of our deregulated businesses.
East Thames Buses was acquired from Transport for London Regulated revenue has reduced by 4.6m, of which 3.5m relates by our Go-Ahead London operation in October 2009.
In to QIC2 which was withdrawn in this financial year.
We have the same month, our Metrobus subsidiary acquired Arrivas maintained a strong discipline in cost control and this remains horsham depot which operates a mix of regulated routes a priority with initiatives focusing on both procurement and and deregulated services.
Plymouth Citybus, a high quality urban business which operates We continue to use around 115 million litres of fuel each year from a centrally based freehold depot was acquired by the and have hedged all of our expected fuel requirements at 41p per Group in December 2009. litre ppl compared with an average price of 47ppl in 2010.
The In March 2010, we acquired the entire share capital of Konectbus total fuel rebate provided through BSOG was 42 ppl, in addition in Norfolk and Go North East acquired the hexham operations to which we received an additional 8%, or 2ppl, in our deregulated of Arriva at the same time we sold our Ashington depot to Arriva.
businesses for the introduction of ITSO Smartcard technology.
Deregulated bus operations Our local management remain responsible for local wage negotiations to ensure that we continue to pay market rates All of our operating companies reported continued underlying and match reward with ongoing productivity improvements.
The revenue growth, resulting in a revenue increase of 7.4% of which 2011 year costs included 5.2m of pension costs 2010: 5.4m.
acquisitions represented 4.2%, offset by a 1.9% fall due to the shorter period with like-for-like growth totalling 5.1%.
Passenger Total depreciation for the division was 38.1m 2010: 35.5m journeys increased by 4.7%, of which acquisitions represented 4.3%, and net capital expenditure was 35.7m 2010: 39.6m.
The a 1.9% fall due to the shorter period and like-for-like growth was average age of our deregulated fleet remains one of the youngest 2.3%, with the majority of the increase from fare paying passengers.
Revenue growth trends remained positive in the second half of Acquisitions the year with like-for-like growth of 5.0%, marginally below that This year has seen continued benefits from acquisitions made of the first half where like-for-like growth was 5.2%.
Like-forduring 2010 in the regulated and deregulated businesses and they like passenger numbers also increased in each of our operating are included within acquisitions data until the first anniversary of companies with a total second half increase of 2.8% compared each entity becoming part of the Group.
Subsequent to this point to a first half increase of 1.8%.
their results are deemed to be like-for-like.
Operating profit margins in the deregulated bus division have 2010 11 acquisition increased from 10% last year to 11.6%.
On 24 May 2011 we purchased the entire share capital of Thames We believe understanding our customers is a key driver to our Travel, a high quality operator based in Oxfordshire.
With annual business, as is providing a safe and reliable service.
During the year turnover of around 5.5m Thames Travel will be run as a stand-alone our deregulated services saw punctuality at 90% 2010: 90% with operation overseen by management at Oxford Bus Company.
some operating companies achieving higher than 95%, despite the Before amortisation and exceptional items.
adverse weather conditions in the early part of this calendar year.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 40 Operating margins have decreased from 10.2% last year to 9.5% largely due to reductions in QIC bonuses.
north American joint venture In August 2010 our 50:50 North America joint venture with Cook Illinois began two contracts in St Louis, Missouri to run approximately 120 buses.
Our investment in the joint venture is through a combination of debt and equity and totals US$6.2m 3.9m provided through a US$10m revolving credit facility held in the UK.
Whilst the result for the year was a break even position we believe we have a good foundation for profitability on these contracts going forward.
While the 2011 tendering round has not secured new work for the joint venture, we will use the experience we have gained in the 2012 tendering round.
Outlook We anticipate that the performance of our bus divisions will remain strong into the next financial year.
In our deregulated Our locally focused businesses can respond to the needs of our customers.
business, retaining customers who have switched from private cars will be a priority, together with further growth in passenger numbers.
Our regulated operations have started the year well Regulated bus operations with new contract wins and no losses.
We will work to maintain Our regulated bus operations in London performed well.
Reduced our high rankings in TfL league tables.
QICs and lower contract margins were largely offset by effective cost control.
Revenue declined by 1.3% in the year, acquisitions In May 2011, the Competition Commission issued its provisional represented 1.8%, a 0.8% fall due to the shorter period, which findings and notice of proposed remedies in response to its leaves a like-for-like reduction of 2.3%.
Contracted mileage was inquiry into the UK local bus market.
No fundamental change marginally behind 2010, declining by 0.8% to 72.2 million miles, of to the regulatory structure of the bus industry is currently which an increase of 1.6% came from acquisitions, a 1.8% fall due being proposed.
to the shorter period resulting in a like-for-like decrease of 0.6%.
In April 2012 the 20% reduction in BSOG will be enacted.
This QIC bonuses reduced to 8.0m 2010: 12.3m, of this reduction will result in a financial impact in the year to 30 June 2012 of 3.5m was from QIC2 incentives for driver quality and bus around 1.6m, as the reduction in the grant will be partly offset incentives which were withdrawn by TfL during the previous year.
To mitigate these reductions going Our strong performance means we continue to earn QICs where forward, contract tender bids in London will be adjusted and available and continue to perform well in the TfL quality league deregulated operations will introduce efficiency improvements tables, operating in excess of 99.6% of our target mileage before and yield benefits to offset the reduced subsidy.
We anticipate that the strong demand for our services will Revenue trends were in line with our expectations with negative continue and we continue to seek opportunities to develop growth in the second half of 0.3% compared to a first half our business organically and acquisitively.
Our ability to tender effectively is supported by our depot capacity in London: 85% of our depots are freehold, which provide a strong base for contract renewals as this reduces factors such as dead mileage the distance travelled between the beginning end of a route and the depot.
During 2011, we retained contracts for 270 peak vehicle requirements PvR, won new work for 137 PvR and lost 47 PvR.
2011 12 has started positively on both contract wins and retentions with no losses to date.
The decommissioning of articulated buses by TfL, that was announced in 2010, has been confirmed and all of these vehicles will be removed from service by September 2011.
Certain routes have been retendered and re-awarded to us using double deck vehicles.
We have continued the process of accelerating the depreciation on these vehicles to a nil residual value with an exceptional charge for the year of 3.0m 2010: 2.6m.
We are seeking opportunities to utilise these vehicles elsewhere in the Group.
