REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Homebase business review Homebase continues to be well positioned as the UKs leading home enhancement retailer.
Operational review Improving value Developing ranges Homebase continues to improve its value Homebase is constantly updating its customer position: through its Value product range, offering and looking to enhance its product best buys, bulk deals and other promotional mechanics.
Actions taken have improved the choice through range reviews that bring in new and improved products.
customer perception of Homebases value, with Decorating projects continue to drive footfall the number of customers actively satis ed with to Homebase and its planned range reviews will prices having signicantly improved over the last continue to increase the emphasis on affordably two years.
During the year an Homebase has extended its Value range to more than 500 lines, offering essential products enhanced ooring and tiling offer was introduced in about 100 stores, with an increased space at low prices.
The creation of more bulk buy allocation allowing more choice and increased discounts in the DIY categories has continued in quantities to be maintained.
A range review the year with more than 800 opportunities to was also undertaken in lighting, with 450 new take advantage of competitive pricing on larger product lines being added.
In its gardening purchase quantities.
Promotions continue to category new Qualcast models have been added offer value to customers, with improved and a Jamie Oliver collection of Grow Your Own targeting during seasonal periods on relevant lines introduced, as well as a new range of BBQs.
categories, underpinned by the customer Homebase continues to develop its ranges benets from the Nectar programme.
in big ticket, including the Schreiber branded bedroom proposition and a new range of Loyalty programme premium, design-led kitchens, which are being The Homebase Nectar scheme was introduced trialled in four stores.
in May 2009 and represents a clear advantage over competitors through its ability to drive Read about Homebases Expanding installation services loyalty from the schemes broad customer corporate responsibility Homebases installation services support the appeal.
Homebase has more than seven million activities online at big ticket offer and provide the customer with active Nectar customers, in what is a costwww.
com a complete home enhancement solution.
effective scheme to operate with a participation The kitchen installation service, which is rate of more than 60% of Homebase sales.
independently certied by MORI, achieves a The data captured from customers using the customer recommendation rate of over 90%.
Nectar card enables Homebase to extract From this success the service has been expanded insight to improve the customers shopping to include bathrooms and bedrooms.
Nectar continues to provide installation was rolled out nationwide in time increased customer reach and better customer segmentation to allow more targeted direct for the 2011 New Year peak trading period.
The tted bedroom furniture offer under the marketing programmes.
Schreiber brand was rolled out into about a The Homebase Value range further 100 stores and is now available in has been extended to over approximately 200 stores.
500 products There are now more than 800 bulk-buy discounts in DIY categories 18 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2011 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Homebase key performance indicators Sales m Number of stores 11 11 1,551 341 10 10 1,572 349 09 345 09 1,513 08 1,569 08 331 07 1,594 07 310 Non-mezzanine With mezzanine Sales decreased by 1.4% or 21m in total, with an increase big ticket sales During the financial year eight stores were closed, reducing the portfolio to 341. driven by growth in bathrooms and bedrooms.
Reecting the general market Eleven Midi Rets were completed during the financial year and there are plans conditions, sales for the remaining categories were marginally down.
to invest in a further 30 Midi Rets over the next three years.
fide nition: Income received for goods and services.
fide nition: Total number of stores at year-end.
Mezzanine stores contain a mezzanineSource: Audited financial statements.
selling oor which is typically used to display kitchens, bathrooms and furniture.
Net closed space reduced Sales per square foot based on total year-end selling space increased to 99.
The sales by 1.1% with eight stores closed during the period.
reduction in previous years was driven by the combination of a difficult DIY market and the impact of store mezzanine and garden centre space which is dilutive to fide nition: Annual percentage change in sales.
Like-for-like sales are calculated on stores sales densities.
This trend has reversed in the last two years, aided by an improved that have been open for more than a year: The contribution to sales from net new space is the trading environment.
sales performances for the first 52 weeks trading of any newly opened stores less the sales performances for the last 52 weeks of any stores that have been closed.
fide nition: Annual sales divided by year-end total selling space.
Source: Audited financial statements measured internally.
This was a result of a marginally negative sales performance being more than offset by a further reduction in costs.
fide nition: Benchmark operating profit is dened as operating profit before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, store impairment and onerous lease charges or releases, exceptional items and costs related to demerger incentive schemes.
FOR ALL CHARTS, 2007 IS ON A 52-WEEK PRO FORMA BASIS.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2011 19 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Homebase business review continued Extending multi-channel Developing the store portfolio Internet sales, including the new Reserve & During the financial year eight stores were closed Collect service, grew by 51% in the period and taking the portfolio to 341.
The opportunity for now account for 4% of sales.
The Stock Check new store openings will continue to be examined and Reserve & Collect functionality has now and, in addition, a small number of closures, been introduced to all stores.
The strong relocations or downsizes will be sought as part of increase in unique visitors to the website, the ongoing management of the store portfolio.
co. uk, was also driven by the The low cost Midi Re t programme Keep up to date with Homebase Get into Gardening customer community continues to successfully address stores in which via our new reporting centre, site, the Homebase online DIY advice centre, a mezzanine cannot be installed, by achieving available online at the launch of an iPhone app, the availability the broader home enhancement offer and www.
com of online in-store promotions and email improved store standards.
Eleven Midi Re ts reports marketing campaigns.
were completed during the financial year and Further online initiatives are planned and there are plans to invest in a further 30 Midi include improved search and navigation features, Rets over the next three years.
Back in Stock notication and more online tools to aid co-ordination and visualisation.
Homebase offers 38,000 products to support the home and garden enhancer using inspirational roomsets and an installation service to extend its presence into big ticket items.
20 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2011 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Financial review Sales in the 52 weeks to 26 February 2011 Homebase continues to improve decreased by 1.4% in total: net closed space reduced sales by 1.1% with eight stores closed its value position, through its Value during the period, while like-for-like sales declined by 0.3%.
An increase in big ticket sales range, best buys, bulk deals and other was driven by growth in bathrooms and bedrooms.
Reecting the general market promotional offers.
Actions taken conditions, sales for the remaining categories were marginally down.
over the last two years have resulted The gross margin rate was maintained year-on-year.
A decline of around 50 basis in a significant improvement in the points driven by the net impact of adverse currency and increased shipping costs was customers perception of value.
offset by improvements of around 25 basis points from stock management bene ts and around 25 basis points from a reduced level of promotional activity.
Total operating and distribution costs were reduced by around 15m or 2%.
Total sales decreased by 1%, equivalent to a potential cost reduction of around 10m, with underlying cost ination at around 1% or 10m, there was therefore around 2% or 15m of cost productivity.
Benchmark operating profit for the 52 weeks to 26 February 2011 was 47.6m, an increase of 6.4m or 16% on the previous years 41.2m.
52 WEEKS TO 26 FEBRUARY 2011 27 FEBRUARY 2010 Sales m 1,550.7 1,571.9 Benchmark operating pro t m 47.6 41.2 Benchmark operating margin 3.1% 2.6% 0.3% 2.7% Like-for-like change in sales New space contribution to sales change 1.1% 1.2% Total sales change 1.4% 3.9% Gross margin movement c. 0bps Down c. 350bps Benchmark operating pro t change 16% 177% Number of stores at year-end 341 349 Of which contain a mezzanine oor 186 190 Store selling space at year-end million sq ft 15.6 16.1 Of which garden centre area 3.6 3.7 mezzanine oor area 1.8 1.9 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2011 21
