THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION chief executives review 5 Aligning our global view DELIVERING GREAT HOTELS GUESTS LOVE Preferred Talented Best-in-class brands people delivery Responsible business practice INVEST IN GROWTH Grow market share Sustainable margin growth 2011 will always be noted as the year the ihG owners Association changed its name.
From iAhi, the owners Association to ihG owners Association.
while that change may not look InterContinental Alliance Resort opened 3.
BeSt-in-clASS deliveRy significant from the outside, to the during 2011, we continue to expand leaders of this organisation and to our We continue to leverage our global scale Holiday Inn Club Vacations and we ihG partners, it signifies our partnership and the power of our systems to drive a entered into a joint venture to launch in a way that our old name did not.
greater share of industry demand into the Holiday Inn Express brand in India.
our new name reflects our representation our hotels.
We do this by ensuring our In 2012 we will launch two new brands of ihG brands across the globe.
the distribution channels are aligned with to exploit untapped profitable market former name stood for international the needs of our guests, whilst driving the segments, in the midscale segment in Association of holiday inns, and since most profitable revenues for our owners.
the US and in the upper upscale segment the mid-1980s, we have represented In 2011, 69 per cent of total rooms revenue in China.
We have had a significant amount more than just that one brand.
now our was booked through IHGs channels or of interest from our owners in relation to name reflects the breadth of work the direct to hotels by our 63 million Priority these new brands and are very excited Association fosters on behalf of all Club Rewards members.
about the opportunities they will bring.
we are deeply grateful to Our innovations continue to lead the Bill deForrest, our immediate past industry.
During the year we introduced our 2. tAlented PeoPle chairman, for his passion to move our Best Price Guarantee, designed to drive Our brands represent a promise to our rebranding forward.
more guests to book through our direct guests.
It is our people who deliver that Reflecting on the past year, i see it as a websites.
We are also a founding member promise and bring each brand to life.
year of strengthened alignment with ihG of roomkey.
com, the first industry-owned So aligning all 345,000 people working in to better serve our owners.
our volunteer online hotels search engine, launched in our hotels and corporate offices around leaders and our ihG partners operate January 2012, and our mobile apps now the world as brand ambassadors is from a shared foundation of mutual generate close to $150 million annually critical to our success.
respect and a shared understanding from a standing start two years ago.
We need our people to deliver consistent that our decisions have real impact Looking ahead, whilst there is considerable brand experiences to our guests which for every hotel and owner worldwide.
uncertainty in some markets of the world, requires significant effort and innovation we are aligned to improve return on the hotel industry is well-positioned to and the engagement of our third-party investment and the value of our assets benefit from long-term trends with hotel owners.
This is a big task but we while growing shareholder value.
continuing demand in emerging markets have made great progress over the past and China in particular.
We remain few years with an innovative and effective confident in IHGs ability to deliver approach.
We have launched our suite of high-quality growth through gains in both Glenn Squires People Tools which help our owners and market share and margins, due to our 2012 Chairman managers to hire, train, involve and preferred brands, outstanding people, IHG Owners Association recognise the best employees for their geographic diversity, robust balance brands, and more recently piloted a sheet and resilient business model.
unique approach to revitalise the back of house space in our hotels.
Our efforts in this area have been For information on the rewarded and for the first time IHG IHG Owners Association, has been placed in Fortunes 100 Best go to www.
org Richard Solomons Companies to Work For in the US as chief executive well as winning a host of other awards.
