Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials Business and financial review Introduction Segmental analysis This business and financial review sets out descriptions Segmental analysis is provided for the groups core of each of the groups business segments, their activities in the Natural Resources, Power & Process markets, strategy and significant factors affecting and Environment & Infrastructure previously Earth & performance for the year ended 31 December 2011.
It Environmental divisions, as well as for non-core should be read in conjunction with the information on Investments and other activities.
our markets and sectors page 8, our services page Amounts and percentage movements relating to 16 and our Vision 2015 strategy page 18.
It includes continuing segmental earnings before net financing comments on movements in the income statement, income, tax and intangible amortisation EBITA balance sheet and cash flow statement and on matters are stated before corporate costs of 34 million that may have an impact on the groups future financial 2010: 36 million and pre-tax exceptional costs performance.
The review provides a broader of 6 million 2010: income of 11 million.
The perspective of AMECs businesses to enable a more segmental analysis for the year ended 31 December informed judgement to be made of the groups 2010 has been restated for certain changes to the financial performance and prospects.
Certain reporting allocation as explained on page 71. forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, operations and results of AMECs The average number of employees for the years ended businesses are contained in the review.
These 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 stated in statements involve risk and uncertainty because they this review includes agency staff and 2010 figures have relate to events and depend upon circumstances that been restated in line with the changes to reporting will occur in the future.
There are a number of factors allocations.
that could cause actual performance or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
The review is provided solely to provide additional information to assist in the assessment of the groups strategy and future prospects.
It should not be relied on for any other purpose.
Basis of presentation and discontinued operations The following analysis is based on the results for continuing operations before intangible amortisation and exceptional items but including joint venture profit before interest, tax and intangible amortisation EBITA.
During 2011, the basis of preparation has been revised to present the results to the nearest million rather than to one decimal place.
Calculated numbers, such as EPS and margin rates, continue to be based on the underlying numbers to one decimal place precision.
In accordance with IFRS 5, the post-tax results of discontinued operations are disclosed separately in the consolidated income statement.
The cash flows of discontinued businesses are fully consolidated within AMEC up to the date of sale.
International Financial Reporting Standard 5: Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 27
