28 KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM Business review Introduction Strategically positioned Kentz continues to grow its addressable market through ongoing geographic expansion, new service offerings and an expanded client base.
Backlog Overview Operating environment US$m Kentz is a global supplier of specialist solutions to While energy associated stocks were hit during 2011 the oil and gas, petrochemical and mining and by a number of credit rating agency downgrades and metals sectors.
In the year ending December 2011, ongoing European debt concerns, the longer-term 372 626 the Company generated revenues of US$1.37 billion outlook for the energy and resource services sector and profit before tax of US$79.4 million.
Kentz employed an average of 14,000 people over Kentz is currently involved in a number of significant the course of 2011 in 29 countries.
It delivered resource and energy projects in the world.
Just a few 1,403 52.5 million man-hours with a total recordable are: Kearl Oil Sands in Canada, PNG LNG in the incident ratio of 0.35, through its three main business Southern Highlands of Papua New Guinea: the Specialist EPC lines: Specialist Engineering, Procurement and development of the Jubail II infrastructure in Saudi Construction Construction EPC Services: Construction: and Arabia: ongoing development at Sakhalin I in Technical Support Technical Support Services.
Far East Russia: and the Gorgon LNG project in Services Western Australia.
Kentzs business model is based on delivery of mechanical, electrical, controls and instrumentation The IMFs baseline petroleum price projection for engineering, and construction and management 2012 is broadly unchanged since September 2011 services in some of the most remote locations on at US$99 a barrel, making the development of most earth.
It generates a significant proportion of revenues global oil reserves financially viable.
Oil and gas through repeat business with its strong, blue-chip exploration and production is increasing in new and client base.
Kentzs ability to deliver in challenging locations, mainly for International Oil Companies At the end of December 2011, the Groups backlog IOCs and National Oil Companies NOCs, has led of work stood at US$2.4 billion 2010: US$1.6 billion to a significant demand for our services and we and its pipeline of prospects was in excess of expect this to continue.
Kentz continues to grow its addressable market through ongoing The International Energy Agency IEA has reported geographic expansion, new service offerings and that global oil demand is forecast to climb to 89.9 an expanded client base.
million barrels per day mbpd in 2012, an increase of 0.8mbpd on the year.
It is encouraging that 2012 capital expenditure for many of our IOC and NOC clients has again been increased for upstream exploration and production projects.
business review KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM 29 Moma Sands Shutdown Crew, Moma Sands Expansion Project, Mozambique, 2011 Current Prospects Operational overview In January 2011 Kentz was awarded a US$30 million US$m The Middle East remains a significant area of contract by Abu Dhabi Gas Industries Ltd GASCO operation for Kentz despite revenues in the region for the replacement of the existing emergency dropping marginally for the period.
The civil unrest in shutdown ESD system and associated field 767 early 2011 in certain parts of North Africa and the instrumentation at Habshan 0 and Habshan 1 plants.
1,325 Middle East did not have any material impact on our The works will be completed throughout two major business and we have continued to secure notable shutdowns: one delivered in 2011 and the second contracts in the countries in which we operate.
It is a strategic initiative to pursue more asset enhancement services including brownfield 1,813 The award of a Framework Agreement with Qatar engineering, maintenance and turnaround, and Shell GTL Limited at the Pearl Gas to Liquids GTL operations support.
Specialist EPC plant at Ras Laffan Industrial City, Qatar, was very Page 36 for further details on Technical Construction encouraging.
The Agreement covers services for SupportServices Technical Support plant change requests over the next three years, Services with a two-year extension option.
This latest award Further awards secured in the period include a follows Kentzs successful completion of a number procurement, construction and commissioning of multi-million dollar contracts over the past five contract worth in the order of US$33.6 million by years on the Pearl GTL Project in which all three of Bariq Mining Limited and a US$32.7 million contract Strategic Prospects our Global Business Units have been involved.
for the reduction area electrical and instrumentation US$m Page 24 for client project lifecycle on the Maaden Alcoa Aluminium Joint Venture, both in Saudi Arabia.
Kentzs first international project was 1,175 Very often, once Kentz teams are mobilised to a in Saudi Arabia in 1977 and it is rewarding to be project and delivering for the client, we see significant winning work in the early stages of the expansion of growth in the scope and services that we are asked its mining and metals sector.
This featured strongly in our business 1,857 again for 2011 with 30% of order intake coming from Projects in the mining and metals industry have been natural growth in existing contracts.
growing as a proportion of Kentzs revenues.
For the full year 2011 they accounted for 24% of revenues, The brownfields services award with Qatar Shell GTL up from 12% in the prior period.
Southern Africa has Specialist EPC is also a good example of how involvement in the historically been a leading centre for mining and Construction capital build phase of a facility positions us well to metals and we have seen strong demand for the Technical Support extend our service offering into the operating period.
provision of our full complement of structural, Services We have done this successfully with a number of mechanical, electrical, instrumentation and piping core clients across our global operations.
Recent investments in base and precious metals projects, particularly in Africa and Australia, have been driven by buoyant global demand, despite perceptions about a weakening Chinese economy.
30 KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM Business review Introduction continued Gorgon LNG Project, Western Kentz has been operating in South Africa since the Backlog at the year-end included 60% reimbursable Australia where Kentz is currently early 1980s and its strong client relationships, service contracts, 10% unit rate reimbursable and involved in four contracts.
business centres and workforce place it well to 30% lump sum work.
Kentz seeks to balance the The most recent contract was awarded to the CB&I Kentz joint service the wider region.
Southern Africa continues margin opportunity with the risk profile of the projects venture by Chevron Australia to be a large area of operation for the Group.
we undertake and as we move into more and more and has an estimated value of US$2.3 billion.
Revenues for the full year 2011 were up over 100% remote locations, the current trend towards more and our pipeline of prospects has grown by a similar reimbursable work with less risk is reassuring.
Historically we have typically seen an average increase in scope of around 25% on most contracts from Kentz has a number of ongoing capital and award to delivery and we see significant opportunity brownfield EPC projects with Sasol through our for continued natural growth during 2012. engineering contractor agreement and the acquisition of RNE early last year has unlocked Kentz was awarded a significantly large reimbursable further potential with this client and across the contract in 2011, in joint venture with CB&I, for the sectors we are currently serving.
mechanical, electrical and instrumentation work on Page 32 for further details on Specialist EPC the Gorgon Project on Barrow Island, Western Australia.
It has an estimated value of US$2.3 billion During the year Kentz was awarded a US$35 million to the CB&I Kentz JV, an integrated joint venture contract by the National Petroleum Refiners of between CB&I 65% and Kentz 35%, and will South Africa Natref at the Natref Crude Refinery employ more than 1,650 jobs for construction in Sasolburg, a joint venture between Sasol Mining personnel in Western Australia over a four-year Pty Ltd and Total South Africa Pty Ltd. Kentz has period.
been working with Sasol for over 30 years.
This latest Page 34 for further details on Construction contract is for the shutdown management and execution services at Natref, including planning, Australia continues to emerge as the world LNG preparation and execution of all shutdowns and liquefaction hub with planned expenditure of turnarounds over a five-year period.
These longerapproximately US$200 billion set to boost the term contracts are typically reimbursable, supporting countrys production sixfold to 120 million tons per visibility of earnings.
Kentzs backlog in Australasia increased around 250% during the year 2011 to US$1.26 billion from US$362 million at the end of 2010.
This has been driven by IOC capital expenditures to service domestic, regional and Asian demands for gas.
COM 31 In Papua New Guinea PNG Kentz is participating in a number of areas on PNG LNG, an integrated project that includes natural gas production and US$1.26bn processing facilities, onshore and offshore pipelines Kentzs backlog in Australasia, up from and liquefaction facilities, that is being developed by US$362m.
a consortium of owners including ExxonMobil as operator.
The most recent contract, awarded in November 2011, is for the Electrical and Instrumentation, Construction and Commissioning Completions for the Hides Gas Conditioning Plant.
Kentz has substantial opportunities in PNG to really differentiate its offering and could be there for many more years to service existing and future projects in both the capital and operational expenditure phases.
Elsewhere, Kentzs backlog of work in Russia is up 100% and in the Americas has risen 50% during the year.
We see substantial opportunities in both these regions and cross utilisation of resources to address similar demands for services in challenging Arctic conditions.
In Russia the recent opening up of reserves for the participation of IOCs should benefit Kentz.
We have a strong track record of working in Far East Russia, and have two joint venture partnerships with Russian companies that have been in place for a number of years now: DEM and SMNM a Rosneft-owned company.
Joint ventures have been a consistent feature of Kentzs business.
During 2011, we established a number of new, successful partnerships with larger 30 engineering and construction companies: CB&I, Over 30 years of Foster Wheeler, KBR and Chiyoda, that have allowed developing strong us to broaden our horizons and provide integrated client relationships solutions to our clients.
This included, at the end of the year, the signing of an engineering, procurement and construction management EPCM framework agreement with Qatargas Operating Company Limited Qatargas, in joint venture with Foster Wheeler.
The agreement will be for three years with an option to extend for a further two years.
The booking values for the projects will be recorded as individual service orders are received, but we see fantastic potential to bid for specific packages of work, including pre-front end engineering design pre-FEED, FEED and EPCM services to be carried out in our Qatar engineering centre.
Kentz now has six regional engineering centres of excellence supporting clients projects based in Canada, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Abu Dhabi, South Africa and Australia.
The geographic spread of these centres ensures proximity to our clients and suppliers, as well as delivering global solutions to local challenges for more remote projects.
Kentz is well-positioned with a global workforce, engineering centres and partnerships that will support its continued growth and expand its addressable market into new geographies, sectors and clients.
