Section 2: Performance Business review grouP over vieW ralph findlay andrew andrea We have a clear strategy to generate sustainable growth, to improve Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer return on capital, and to reduce leverage ratios.
We are pleased to report that we have made good progress on all of these measures.
Revenue was 4.8% up on last year, with improvement in all three trading divisions.
Operating margin was 0.3% below last year, predominantly as a result of the increasing number of Retail Agreements.
These generate increased profit at a lower operating margin percentage.
Margins improved in Marstons Inns and Taverns and were maintained in Marstons Beer Company reflecting our continuing focus on tight cost control.
underlying operating profit increased by 3.8% to 154.3 million, with underlying profit before tax of 80.4 million up 9.4% 2010: 73.5 million.
underlying earnings per share have grown strongly, up 12.0% to 11.2 pence per share 2010: 10.0 pence per share.
In 2011 we have continued to These good results have been achieved despite the well-documented challenging consumer environment, which has seen downward pressure make good progress... offering on consumers discretionary spending and significant inflationary value for money with high service pressures.
Our strategy has focused on offering consumers consistent standards, investment in a quality value for money in a quality pub environment.
To improve both stability in and returns on our leased estate and to help our licensees remain pub estate and a wide range of competitive in todays market, we offer them business-building advice local and premium beers.
and access to our Group buying power.
In 2011 we have continued to make good progress in executing the key operational components of our strategy, offering value for money with high service standards: investment in a quality pub estate: and a wide range of local and premium beers.
new-build development Our new-build development programme remains the key driver of growth for Marstons Inns and Taverns.
These investments are targeted at the eating-out market and are positioned in areas of high traffic flow such as retail parks and other prominent sites with easy access to population centres.
The total cost of each new pub-restaurant, including the site, is in the region of 2.5 million.
Over the past five years we have opened around 50 new pub-restaurants, achieving an average EBITDA return on capital of 18%.
The Royal Oak, Wolverhampton We have maintained an extensive site pipeline but remain very selective about the sites we invest in.
From 2012 onwards, we aim to open around 25 new sites each year, financed from cash flow and existing resources, in line with previously stated plans.
fACt The f-Plan Since 2005 our organic development plans have been underpinned by the F-Plan a focus on food, families, females and forty fifty 1 in 4 pints of premium cask ale somethings which recognises the longer-term growth trends in the and 1 in 5 bottles of premium ale eating-out market.
Over that period, this focus has seen our food sales sold in England and Wales are mix increase from 28% to 42% of turnover in our managed pubs.
The Marstons products number of meals served has nearly doubled to around 26 million meals Source: BBPA each year, and in 2011 we achieved double-digit volume growth in childrens meals, starters, desserts and coffee.
Over the last three years, consumers have increasingly demanded value for money, a trend which For more information on our operations go to we expect to continue for the foreseeable future.
co. uk 08 08 Marston Marstons PLC s PLC Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 w www ww.
o. u ukk 20680-04 2 12 11 Proof 6 Performance retail agreement In 2011 we gained British Franchise Association accreditation for our Key Performance indicators innovative Retail Agreement, helping us to attract entrepreneurs from a wider market.
It remains our intention to have at least 600 pubs The Board of Marstons PlC and the divisional converted to Retail Agreement by the end of 2013, increasing annual management boards monitor a range of financial and non profit from these pubs by at least 6 million, compared to the prefinancial performance indicators, reported on a periodic conversion profit, to 14 million.
In line with our targets, we have now basis, to measure performance against expected targets.
converted 337 pubs to the new agreement, with post-conversion profits Of these, the key performance indicators monitored by up 1.3 million compared with last year.
We are currently planning the Board are: around 200 conversions for 2012.
The average expenditure per conversion is around 50,000 per pub with a minimum target EBITDA 2011 2010 return on incremental capital expenditure of 20%.
group Traditional tenanted model In the medium term we will have around 1,000 pubs operating under 1. underlying earnings per share 11.2p 10.0p the traditional tenanted model.
We continue to develop the model, 2.
Ratio of net debt to EBITDA 5.6 times 5.7 times offering licensees choice in rent and discount models, including free-of-tie options.
In 2012, we plan to invest around 5 million in the Marstons inns and Taverns estate to help our quality licensees further improve their businesses.
Our 3. like-for-like sales growth 2.9% 1.7% innovative and flexible approach to the tenanted model was recognised 4.
New site openings 19 15 this year with Marstons winning the Tenanted Pub Company of the Year award at the 2011 Publican Industry Awards.
average profit per pub Localness and premium ale strategy 5.
Marstons Inns and Taverns 145k 132k We aim to grow our ale brands by focusing on offering consumers a 6.
Marstons Pub Company 48k 47k broad range of brands with genuine local provenance and meeting the increasing consumer demand for premium cask and bottled ale.
We remain market leaders in both of these growth segments of the ale market, and through our outstanding range of ales we are in a strong Definitions position to exploit opportunities in the independent free trade, in the 1. underlying earnings per share are basic earnings per off-trade, and with other pub operators.
Ratio of net debt to EBITDA is the net debt at the period Customer service end compared to EBITDA before exceptional items.
Earlier this year we announced plans to transfer the management of our 3. like-for-like sales growth is the percentage change in Retail Agreement sites to Marstons Inns and Taverns, and to combine revenue for managed pubs owned by the Group for the the commercial operations of Marstons Pub Company and Marstons whole of the current period under review and the prior Beer Company in one trading division: Marstons Beer and Pub comparative period.
These changes took effect on 2 October 2011.
New site openings are the number of managed pubs is to promote best in class service to consumers visiting our managed opened either as new-build pubs or acquired and and Retail Agreement pubs: to our tenanted and leased licensees: and refurbished pubs in the period under review.
For the purpose of financial reporting, we 5.
Average profit per pub is operating profit before will continue to report separately the performance of our tenanted and exceptional items divided by the average number of leased pubs including Retail Agreements and our brewing operations pubs in the period.
in 2012. Dividend The proposed final dividend of 3.70 pence per share is the same as last year and will provide a total dividend for the year of 5.80 pence per share, which is also unchanged.
Dividend cover increased to 1.9 times in 2011 2010: 1.7 times.
It remains our policy to build dividend cover fACt to around 2 times earnings in the medium term.
Current trading TM fastcask technology We have seen an encouraging start to the new financial year.
In now available in minicask managed pubs, like-for-like sales in the eight weeks to 26 November increased by 3.0%, with food sales growth of 3.0%, and wet sales delivering genuine real improving by 3.0%.
In our tenanted, leased and franchise business, ale to enjoy at home in a profit trends continue to improve gradually and are estimated to be up convenient format 2.0%.
Our beer brands are performing in line with our expectations.
Stock Exchange Code: MARS Stock Exchange Code: MARS 09 09 20680-04 2 12 11 Proof 6
