Governance 84 Remuneration report Basis of preparation of this report Remuneration and Talent Committee and compliance Membership and meeting attendance Number Maximum This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the attended possible Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Tim Baker C 6 6 Reports Regulations 2008.
It also meets the relevant requirements William Hayes 6 6 oftheListing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes Juan Claro 6 6 howthe Board has applied the principles of good governance as set outin the Code.
Three meetings were held in the year.
During the year under review, the Company complied with the detailed Key activities in 2012 provisions set out in Section D of the Code except, as explained on page76, the Chairman, who is the only Executive Director, did not receive any reward structured to vary with individual or corporate performance Review of Directors remuneration levels.
principle D. 1 and provision D. 1.1. Review of the 2011 Directors Remuneration Unaudited information report prior to its approval by the Board and Role and responsibilities of the subsequent approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Remuneration and Talent Committee The Remuneration and Talent Committee is responsible for setting Review of the structure and level of senior remuneration policy and for reviewing the remuneration of any Executive management remuneration.
The Remuneration and Talent Committee is also responsible formonitoring the level and structure of remuneration of Group senior Approve the amount of senior management management, reviewing succession planning for senior management, remuneration, including annual bonuses.
reviewing any major changes in compensation policies applying across the Groups companies that have a significant long-term impact on labour costs, and reviewing compensation and talent management strategies.
Review of the operation of the LTIP including The Remuneration and Talent Committees terms of reference are grants of awards to new or promoted employees.
available on the Companys website www.
Theremuneration of Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Review of succession planning for the senior Boardasawhole.
No Director participates in the determination of his management team.
Review of the Groups Talent Management Company policy on Directors pay Strategy and staff succession policy.
As discussed above within the Corporate Governance Report, as at the date of this report the Board had ten Directors, comprising an Executive Chairman and nine Non-Executive Directors.
The Companys approach to Directors remuneration reflects this predominantly non-executive composition of the Board.
The Companys policy is to ensure that Directors are fairly rewarded with regard to responsibilities undertaken, and considers comparable pay levels in the United Kingdom, in Chile, and in the international mining industry.
Corporate and individual performance is taken into account in setting the pay level for the Chairman as an Executive Director, and this is reviewed on an annual basis in comparison with companies of a similar nature, size and complexity.
Remuneration levels for Non-Executive Directors are also reviewed in comparison with companies of a similar nature, size and complexity, and take into account specific responsibilities undertaken.
The Remuneration and Talent Committee used benchmarking data from a number of sources, but did not appoint external consultants to advise on Directors remuneration during the year.
Pay and conditions for Group employees are rising in line with tight labour market conditions in Chile: however, the Remuneration and Talent Committee does not believe that this should be taken into account when determining Directors remuneration, which was kept the same in 2012.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 85 This table summarises Antofagasta plc Board Committee fees payable in Given the predominantly non-executive composition of the Board, there are currently no arrangements for Directors to acquire benefits through 2012 and 2011: the acquisition of shares in the Company or any of its subsidiary US$000 undertakings, to benefit through performance-related pay or to participate in long-term incentive schemes.
The Code states that remuneration for Audit and Risk Committee chairman 20 Non-Executive Directors should not include share options or other Audit and Risk Committee member 10 performance-related elements.
The Board does not consider it Remuneration and Talent Committee chairman 16 appropriate to make regular performance-related pay awards such as Remuneration and Talent Committee member 10 bonuses to the only Executive Director, Jean-Paul Luksic, given his role as Nomination Committee chairman 10 Chairman of the Board and his interest in the Companys shares both via Nomination Committee member 4 a company controlled by him and as a member of the Luksic family.
Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee No Director currently receives pension contributions, which again reflects chairman 16 the predominantly non-executive nature of the Board.
The Code Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee considers that the participation by a Non-Executive Director in a member 10 companys pension scheme could potentially impact on the independence of that Non-Executive Director.
Directors and Committee fees There has been no change to the level of Antofagasta plc Board fees in2012: the base Non-Executive Directors fee in respect of the Antofagasta plc Board remains at US$130,000: given the core role which Antofagasta Minerals plays in the management of the mining operations and projects, and that the mining division represents the large majority of the Groups business, allAntofagasta plc Directors also serve as directors of the Antofagasta Minerals board.
The fees payable to directors of Antofagasta Minerals remain at US$130,000 for members of the Board and US$260,000 forthe Chairman.
Therefore, the combined base fees payable to Non-Executive Directors of both Antofagasta plc and Antofagasta Minerals amount to US$260,000 per annum.
The overall fees payable to the Board in 2012 are higher than in 2011.
Thisis primarily explained by the full-year impact of the new Antofagasta plc and Antofagasta Minerals Board fees which were revised with effect from 1 July 2011, and the full-year impact of the increase in Antofagasta Minerals contract fees with effect from 1 September 2011 for Ramn Jara.
This is further explained by the impact of new Board appointments during 2011 and 2012 which effectively resulted in the Board having an additional board member throughout 2012 and, to a lesser extent, the exchange rate impact of Chilean peso-denominated fees.
There was no change in the fees payable to the Executive Chairman in his role as a Director of Antofagasta plc between 2011 and 2012.
Antofagasta plc Directors may also be appointed as directors of subsidiary companies and joint venture companies within the Group, andthey receive fees for these specific roles, in addition to their Antofagasta plc Board fees.
These additional fees are included within theamounts attributable to the Directors within the table of Directors remuneration that follows.
Governance 86 Remuneration report Service contracts and letters of appointment Directors interests During 2012, Jean-Paul Luksic had a contract for services with both the The Directors who held office at 31 December 2012 had the following Antofagasta Railway Company plc dated 1 April 2008 and Antofagasta interests in the ordinary shares of the Company: Minerals S. A. dated 2 November 2004.
Neither contract has an expiry Ordinary shares of 5p each date, but each of them can be terminated by either party on one months 31 December 1 January notice.
There is also a contract between Antofagasta Minerals S. A. and 2012 2012 Asesoras Ramn F Jara Ltda formerly E. I. R. L. dated 2 November 2004 1 Jean-Paul Luksic 41,963,110 41,963,110 for the provision of advisory services by Ramn Jara which also does not 2 Ramn Jara 5,260 5,260 have an expiry date but can be terminated by either party on one months notice.
The amounts payable under these contracts for services are 1 Jean-Paul Luksics interest relates to shares held by Aureberg Establishment, an entity whichhecontrols.
denominated in Chilean pesos and, as is typical for employment contracts 2 Ramn Jaras interest relates to shares held by a close family member.
or contracts for services in Chile, are adjusted in line with Chilean inflation, and are also reviewed periodically in line with the Companys policy on There have been no changes to the Directors interests in the shares of Directors pay.
Amounts paid during 2012 and 2011 under these contracts the Company between 31 December 2012 and the date of this report.
for services have been included in the table of Directors remuneration.
The Directors had no interests in the shares of the Company during the As recommended by the Code, all Directors are submitted for annual year other than the interests in the table set out above.
No Director had re-election at each AGM.
Each Non-Executive Director has a letter of any material interest in any contract other than a service contract with appointment with the Company for an initial period of one year from the theCompany or its subsidiary undertakings during the year other than date of his appointment, subject to re-appointment at the Annual General inthe ordinary course of business.
These letters, which are renewed ontheir re-appointment at each AGM, require the Non-Executive Directors to undertake that they will have sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities.
The appointments may be terminated by either party on one months notice.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM for 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
The contracts for services and letters of appointment do not provide for any compensation for loss of office beyond payments in lieu of notice, andtherefore the maximum amount payable upon termination of these contracts is limited to one months payment.
No Director has a service contract with the Company which cannot beterminated within 12 months.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 87 The Remuneration and Talent Committee also conducted a review of the Talent management Groups succession planning in respect of the senior management team during 2012.
The Remuneration and Talent Committee also reviews wider aspects of the Groups talent management programme, particularly in relation to During 2012 the Remuneration and Talent Committee reviewed the senior management.
The Remuneration and Talent Committee reviews Groups Talent Management Strategy, which is designed to attract and the structure of senior management remuneration.
The structure is retain the key management and skilled workers required by the Groups designed to align management compensation with the Groups strategic existing operations and its growth projects.
Further detail in respect of the aims and shareholders interests.
Senior management remuneration Groups talent management programme is set out in the Sustainability comprises a combination of base salary and other benefits, an annual Report on page57.
cash bonus and conditional cash awards based on the price of ordinary shares of the Company granted pursuant to the Long Term Incentive Plan Performance graph LTIP.
Directors are not eligible to participate in the LTIP, which reflects the predominantly non-executive nature of the Board.
Under the terms of The following graph shows the Companys performance compared to the the LTIP, the Group may grant awards based on the price of ordinary performance of the FTSE All-Share Index and the HSBC Global Mining shares of the Company and cannot grant awards over actual shares.
Index over a five-year period, measured by total shareholder return as Twotypes of awards may be granted pursuant to the LTIP: defined below.
The FTSE All-Share Index has been selected as an appropriate benchmark as it is the most broadly-based index to which Restricted Awards: These awards are conditional rights to receive cash theCompany belongs and which relates to the London Stock Exchange, payment by reference to a specified number of the Companys ordinary the market where the Companys ordinary shares are traded.
Total shares subject to the relevant employee remaining employed by the shareholder return performance in comparison with the HSBC Global Group when the Restricted Award vests: and Mining Index is one of the performance criteria for Performance Awards Performance Awards: These awards are conditional rights to receive granted pursuant to the LTIP as described above.
cash payment by reference to a specified number of the Companys Total shareholder return is calculated to show a theoretical growth in the ordinary shares subject to both the satisfaction of a performance value of a shareholding over a specified period, assuming that dividends condition and the relevant employee remaining employed by the Group are reinvested to purchase additional shares at the closing price when the Performance Award vests.
The performance criteria reflect applicable on the ex-dividend date.
Total shareholder return for the anumber of factors including total shareholder return as discussed FTSEAll-Share Index and the HSBC Global Mining Index is calculated further below, earnings levels, growth in the Groups reserves and byaggregating the returns of all individual constituents of those indices at resources and project delivery targets.
theend of the five-year period.
Further details of the LTIP are set out in Note 26 to the financial statements.
Total Shareholder Return Antofagasta plc vs FTSE All-Share Index and HSBC Global Mining Index % Diego Hernndez has been granted awards under the LTIP and has also been granted an exceptional, long-term award One-off Award.
The 300 One-off Award was granted to Diego Hernndez for the same purpose as 200 the awards granted under the LTIP but by reference to metrics which are specific to his role as Chief Executive Officer of Antofagasta Minerals.
100 Awards granted under the One-off Award are conditional rights to receive a cash payment by reference to the market value of a number of ordinary 0 shares at vesting.
The One-off Award was not granted over actual shares DEC 2007 DEC 2008 DEC 2009 DEC 2010 DEC 2011 DEC 2012 and Directors are not eligible to receive a One-off Award.
Vesting of the Antofagasta FTSE All Share Index HSBC Global Mining Index One-off Award will be as follows: Total Shareholder Return represents share price growth plus dividends reinvested over the period Total Return Basis Index 1 January 2008 100 Half of the One-off Award is subject both to certain performance Source: Datastream conditions which are measured over a three-year period ending on 1August 2015, the three-year anniversary of the effective date of DiegoHernndezs appointment and to continued employment.
That half of the award will normally vest only after the end of the three-year performance period and only to the extent that those performance conditions are met.
The other half of the One-off Award is subject to continued employment and will normally vest on 1 August 2015.
Governance 88 Remuneration report Audited information Directors remuneration The remuneration of the Directors in the year is set out below in US dollars.
Amounts paid in Chilean pesos have been translated at average rates for the relevant year, which are set out in Note 36 to the financial statements.
As explained above, there were amendments to the amounts payable to all Directors as members of the Antofagasta plc Board and of the board of Antofagasta Minerals with effect from 1 July 2011, and the amounts payable to Ramn Jara under his service contract with effect from 1 September 2011, and accordingly the amounts disclosed below reflect these changes.
This amount is included in the amounts attributable to Jean-Paul Luksic of US$3,524,000 2011 US$3,438,000.
The benefits expense represents the provision of car usage and life, accident and health insurance for Jean-Paul Luksic.
2 Charles Bailey resigned from the Board on 8 June 2011, and the amounts shown above for 2011 represent fees payable up to this date.
3 During 2012, remuneration of US$641,000 2011 US$571,000 for the provision of services by Ramn Jara was paid to Asesoras Ramn F Jara Ltda.
This amount is included in the amounts attributable toRamn Jara of US$1,014,000 2011 US$895,000.
The benefits expense represents the provision of accident insurance to Ramn Jara.
4 Daniel Yarur resigned from the Board on 1 March 2011, and the amounts shown above for 2011 represent fees payable up to this date.
5 Guillermo Luksic has forgone his fees since 1 October 2012 due to a leave of absence approved by the Board.
6 Hugo Dryland was appointed to the Board on 20 January 2011 and the amounts shown above for 2011 represent fees payable from this date.
7 Tim Baker was appointed to the Board on 1 March 2011 and the amounts shown above for 2011 represent fees payable from this date.
8 Fees payable in respect of Ollie Oliveiras service as a Director are paid to Greengrove Capital LLP, a partnership in which Ollie Oliveria is a partner.
Ollie Oliveira was appointed to the Board on 28 October 2011, and the amounts shown above for 2011 represent fees payable from this date.
9 Nelson Pizarro was appointed to the Board on 24 July 2012 and the amounts shown above for 2012 represent fees payable from this date.
Approved on behalf of the Board Tim Baker Chairman of the Remuneration and Talent Committee 11 March 2013
