Governance Directors remuneration report Remuneration Committee overview Following the above changes to the 2012 remuneration policy, bonuses Dear shareholder were earned at 117.15% and 117% of base salary respectively for the This is my first letter to you as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Chief Executive and Finance Director.
The Remuneration Committee a role I took over when Miranda Curtis left the Board during 2012.
I would was comfortable with the level of bonus earned based on the like to thank Miranda for her contribution during her time as Chair of performance against financial targets and the achievement of speci c the Committee.
personal objectives set at the start of the year.
2012 has been another year of progress in many areas at National Whilst full details of the revised Remuneration Policy are provided Express despite the continuing challenging economic conditions.
The in the Remuneration Report, I take this opportunity to highlight the successful integration of the Petermann and Transit businesses in North Remuneration Committees continued aim to incentivise and reward America, allied to a continuation of our drive to reduce costs and make performance over the long term.
Accordingly, the Remuneration improvements to our operational ef ciency, leave the Group well placed Committee resolved not to increase the base salaries of Executive to generate future value for shareholders.
Directors this year and to make greater use of the Companys Long I believe that it is the key responsibility of the Remuneration Committee Term Incentive Plan in determining the remuneration of Executive to create remuneration policies and practices that achieve the best value Directors going forward.
Pay and incentives have to be set at a level that will With regard to future remuneration policy, the Committee believes that attract and retain quality management and fully incentivise them to deliver the amended remuneration policy operated in 2012 is appropriate for outstanding performance.
future years and looks to our shareholders to approve both this years The Board and Remuneration Committee are aware that there has Remuneration Report and the amendment to the current Long Term always been a strong and competitive market for successful senior Incentive Plan described in the Notice of AGM.
Against this backdrop, concerns relating to the retention of the Companys Executive Directors emerged during 2012, more speci cally in regard to the Chief Executive.
The Board rmly believes that the strong and effective leadership provided by the Chief Executive and his team has provided the Group with a clear and robust platform for the delivery of future growth.
With this in mind and following consultation Sir Andrew Foster with the Companys major shareholders, the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Chairman and Board deemed it necessary to develop its previously stated 28 February 2013 Remuneration Policy for 2012.
Key changes to the 2012 Remuneration Policy for the Chief Executive included: t an increase in annual bonus opportunity from 125% of salary to 150% of salary with 50% of the additional bonus being compulsorily deferred: t introduction of supplementary five year long term incentive awards of 100% of salary pa, granted subject to targets linked to the Companys five year plan: and t introduction of an additional pension promise that is focused on the retention of the Chief Executive for the next ten year period.
In line with the above changes, the Board considered it appropriate to amend the Finance Directors remuneration policy with effect from 2012.
Accordingly, the Finance Directors bonus opportunity was increased from 112.5% to 150%, with 50% of the additional bonus being subject to deferral.
64 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Delivering on our strategy Business review Governance Financial statements Remuneration Committee Role of the Remuneration Committee Main activities during the year The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: Name of Director Position During the year the Committee t determine the fees of the Chairman: Sir Andrew Foster Chairman appointed considered the following items 10 May 2012 t determine the remuneration and conditions of business: Miranda Curtis Chairman resigned of employment including any termination 10 May 2012 t Review of Executive Directors and arrangements of the Executive Directors: Lee Sander Non-Executive Director senior executives salary levels t approve the remuneration and conditions Tim Score Senior Independent Director t Annual bonus scheme terms for 2012 of employment of the Divisional Heads and Company Secretary: t Review of the Chairmans fee Management attendees t review the remuneration and conditions t Performance targets to apply to the Dean Finch Group Chief Executive of employment of the senior management 2012 Long Term Incentive Plan awards team: and Stephen Connock MBE Group HR Director including the total shareholder return comparator group used and the range t select and appoint any remuneration Michael Hampson General Counsel and of earnings per share targets set Company Secretary consultants who advise the Committee.
t 2012 award levels under the The full terms of reference of the Committee Companys share plans are available on the Companys website at nationalexpressgroup.
t Approval of a new remuneration arrangement for the Chief Executive The members of the Committee who served and Finance Director during the year were all independent Directors.
The Committee met four times in 2012.
Details t Recruitment packages for new senior of attendance at these meetings can be found executives on page 56. t Testing of performance conditions and The Committee members and management vesting of Long Term Incentive Plan attendees did not participate in any discussions awards granted in 2009 directly relating to their own remuneration or performance during the year.
t Outline of the Groups 2012 bonus scheme Advisors to the Committee t Long Term Incentive Plan entitlements The Committee has appointed independent upon redundancy remuneration consultants, New Bridge Street NBS to advise on all aspects of senior executive remuneration.
NBS has no other connection with the Group other than in the provision of advice on executive and employee remuneration and nor does its ultimate parent, Aon plc.
NBS is a signatory of the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct, which speci es the professional standards of conduct for consultants to Remuneration Committees of UK Listed Companies.
From time to time, the Company submits the remuneration consultant function to tender.
com 65 Governance Directors remuneration report continued The higher annual bonus opportunity coupled with greater Information not subject to audit deferral for both Executive Directors is considered to provide Remuneration policy for Executive Directors a more market consistent annual bonus opportunity and Remuneration policy is based on the following broad structure taking into account the size and complexity of principles set by the Committee: the Company.
t to provide a competitive remuneration package The Remuneration Committee recognises that the changes to attract and retain quality individuals: made during the year developed the policy disclosed in t to align remuneration to drive the overall objectives respect of 2012 in last years Directors remuneration report, of the business: however, it considered it necessary to take this action given the retention issues noted earlier.
t to align the interests of management with the interests of shareholders: and The Company is seeking shareholder approval to amend its existing LTIP to enable supplementary five year long t to provide the foundation for overall reward and term incentive awards to be granted on an annual basis remuneration beyond the specic roles falling within to the Chief Executive from 2013.
This approach is being the direct remit of the Remuneration Committee.
taken as a result of the Remuneration Committee wishing In implementing its policy, the Committee gives full to provide a clear alignment with both our medium three consideration to the principles set out in the UK Corporate year and long term five year objectives in future years.
Governance Code with regard to Directors remuneration Further details in respect of the five year long term incentive and due regard is given to the guidance issued by investor awards to be granted on an ongoing basis are set out in the protection bodies and institutional investors more generally.
Remuneration policy is reviewed on an ongoing basis The Committee believes that it continues to take into against the Committees broad principles and in light of account the principles of sound risk management when emerging best practice in corporate governance.
The above changes are considered to have mitigated the retention issues perceived at the start of 2012.
During the year, as a result of the continuing strong The revised remuneration policy provides for a substantial performance of the Executive Directors and in response to proportion of the current remuneration packages of the specic retention concerns in respect of the Chief Executive executive directors to be weighted towards long term that were brought to the attention of the Remuneration performance with the annual bonus also the subject Committee, a number of changes were made to the of part deferral into the Companys shares.
Clawback remuneration policy to apply for 2012.
This suite of changes provisions also apply in the event of a mis-statement of the was considered appropriate to retain and motivate the Companys results and a broad range of financial and nonExecutive Directors with the Remuneration Committee financial targets are included in our incentive programmes.
introducing the changes after appropriate consultation Appropriate liaison takes place between the Remuneration with the Companys major shareholders.
The changes and Audit Committees as part of an effective remuneration were considered to nely balance performance and nonrisk assessment process.
In line with the Association of performance related elements of, in particular, the Chief British Insurers ABIs Guidelines on Responsible Investment Executives package with a view to ensuring his retention Disclosure, the Committee ensures that the incentive over the long term but linking a substantial proportion of structure for Executive Directors and senior management his remuneration to a successful implementation of the will not raise environmental, social or governance ESG risks Companys growth strategy.
They included: by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
More t an increase in the annual bonus opportunity for both generally, with regard to the overall remuneration structure, Executive Directors to 150% of salary but with 50% of the there is no restriction on the Committee which prevents it additional bonus being compulsorily deferred, in addition from taking into account corporate governance on ESG to 25% deferral of the previous bonus potential: matters and it takes due account of issues of general operational risk when structuring incentives.
The Committee t a supplementary five year long term incentive award was takes due account of remuneration structures elsewhere in granted to the Chief Executive subject to targets linked to the Group when setting pay for the Executive Directors for the Companys five year plan the principal terms of which example, consideration is given to the overall salary increase are set out on pages 69 and 70 : and budget and the incentive structures that operate across theGroup.
t the introduction of an additional pension promise for the Chief Executive that will accrue over the next ten years.
The Group operates a leadership and development programme which includes an appraisal system for Directors and senior management.
In 2012 the appraisal system used balanced scorecards to assess performance against safety, customer, people and community objectives.
The results of the annual appraisal system are taken into consideration when setting remunerationlevels.
66 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Delivering on our strategy Business review Governance Financial statements Summary of Executive Directors remuneration Element Objective Performance period Policy Basic salary To position at a competitive Annually Individual pay levels using comparable mid-market level for similar roles within data for guidance as appropriate are determined by comparable markets reference to the individuals performance, experience in post and potential.
Performance To incentivise delivery 1 year Bonus payments are based on the achievement related bonus of performance objectives of specified corporate financial and non-financial objectives.
A proportion of the bonus is subject to mandatory deferral into shares for one year from award.
Pension To provide competitive benets Ongoing Executive Directors do not participate in the pension scheme.
in line with market practice and The Chief Executive receives a cash supplement in lieu of to act as a retention mechanism pension at 35% of salary plus an additional 25% of salary and reward long service notional pension contribution as part of an unfunded pension promise that is revalued each year at 5% p. a. from 1 April 2013.
The Finance Director receives a cash supplement in lieu of pension at 25% of salary.
Only basic salary is pensionable.
Long Term Incentive To drive performance, aid 3 and 5 years Half of any award is subject to EPS growth.
The remaining Plan retention and align the interests if applicable half is subject to the relative total shareholder return TSR of Executive Directors with of the Company compared against a bespoke peer group.
shareholders Other benets To provide competitive benets in Ongoing Executive Directors receive private health and long term line with market practice sickness insurance and a cash alternative to a fully expensed car.
Share ownership To align Executive Directors N A A shareholding of 100% of current salary should be achieved guidelines with shareholders within five years.
ii Basic salary Elements of remuneration The salary of individual Executive Directors is reviewed at i Fixed versus variable remuneration 1 January each year.
Account is taken of the performance A substantial proportion of the Executive Directors pay is of the individual concerned, together with any change in performance related.
The charts below show the balance responsibilities that may have occurred and the rates for between xed and performance related pay at target and similar roles in two comparator groups of companies.
The maximum performance levels based on the elements of comparator groups for the 2012 financial year were i a National Expresss remuneration package set out above.
group of transport leisure sector companies and ii a group Maximum performance assumes achievement of maximum of companies from the FTSE Mid 250 drawn from across bonus and full vesting of shares under the LTIP.
The constituents of each group were selected to be broadly reective of the size market capitalisation and 2013: Fixed and variable pay: turnover and complexity of National Express at the time Group Chief Executive at target of completing the review.
For 2013 the comparator groups will be based on similar groups of transport leisure and and maximum performance levels general sector companies drawn from the FTSE 250 when considering pay increases for 2014.
Target No increases were awarded to base salary for the Executive Maximum Directors for 2012 or for 2013.
20 40 60 80 100 0 iii Performance related bonus The maximum potential bonus payable to Executive 2013: Fixed and variable pay: Directors in 2012 was 150% of salary for both Executive Group Finance Director at target Directors.
This reected a change of policy that was and maximum performance levels discussed with the Companys largest shareholders following the publication of the 2011 Directors Remuneration Target Report.
In light of this change of policy, the Companys policy on deferral was also revised.
In addition to the existing Maximum requirement for 25% of the bonus to be deferred, following 20 40 60 80 100 the decision to increase the maximum bonus entitlement 0 to 150%, the Executive Directors are required to defer 50% Base salary of the additional bonus.
Annual bonus LTIP performance and matching www.
com 67 Governance Directors remuneration report continued In respect of the targets applying to the annual bonus The amounts deferred under the bonus plan are deferred for 2012 for the Chief Executive and Finance Director, a into shares awarded under the Executive Deferred Bonus maximum of 105% of salary and 90% of salary respectively Plan EDBP.
Receipt of the deferred shares is subject to was payable based on achievement against a sliding scale continued service and the same good leaver provisions and of challenging normalised profit targets the denition of other terms as noted for the Long Term Incentive Plan below.
normalised profit is set out in the Glossary on page 162.
The 2012 bonus also includes clawback provisions that A maximum of 45% and 60% of salary respectively was require the deferred shares to be forfeited or repaid should it payable based on non-financial targets that encompassed be necessary for the Company to restate materially its 2012 customer, operational excellence and people objectives.
results within a two year period following the deferred bonus being awarded.
The proportion of the bonus that would In relation to the proportion of the bonus determined by be the subject to a clawback would depend on the extent performance against normalised profit targets no bonus to which the original bonus payment turned out to be false is payable unless the Company achieves at least 95% of following the publication of corrected results.
budget and the maximum amount is only payable on the achievement of a stretch target of 110% of budget.
In terms of an overview of the 2012 bonus plan and the extent to which targets were met, this is set out in the table The targets set in relation to non-financial performance below.
Bonuses were payable at 117.15% of salary for the are key strategic Group objectives that are tailored to the Group Chief Executive and 117% of salary for the Finance responsibilities of each individual Executive Director and, in Director.
In calculating these bonuses, the Committee aggregate, are considered to be similarly challenging to the considered the safety performance of the Company range of financial targets set.
In addition, no bonus in respect and concluded that a continued improvement in safety of non-financial performance is payable unless 95% of the processes, procedures and outcomes during the year had Groups normalised profit budget is achieved.
The Committee has full discretion in the payment of bonuses The deferred bonuses awarded to both Executive Directors and, in particular, it is a pre-condition to the award of any in 2012 based on performance to 31 December 2011 are bonus that the Committee has determined that there due to vest on 2 March 2013. has been a material improvement in safety processes, procedures and outcomes during the year in the relevant business unit before any bonus is paid.
Bonus Scheme 2012 % of salary Details Achievement 1 Maximum bonus potential 150% Proportion of bonus subject to Group Chief Executive 117.15% and 2: mandatory deferral into Company Group Finance Director 117% shares for one year from award Bonus potential at 95% of 26.25% for Group Chief Executive budgeted normalised profit 22.5% for Group Finance Director before tax PBT On target bonus potential 52.5% for Group Chief Executive Awarded on achieving budget at 100% of budgeted normalised 45% for Group Finance Director PBT Stretch bonus for 110% of 105% for Group Chief Executive Awarded on achieving a stretch budgeted normalised PBT target of 110% of normalised PBT 90% for Group Finance Director Non-financial targets underpinned 45% for Group Chief Executive Awarded on meeting key strategic by achievement of 95% of Group objectives tailored to each 60% for Group Finance Director budgeted normalised PBT Executive Directors responsibilities Notes: 1 The Group Chief Executive achieved 72.15% of salary in respect of the financial performance condition and 45% in respect of his achievement of his non-financial targets.
2 The Group Finance Director achieved 62.62% of salary in respect of the financial performance condition and 54.38% in respect of the non-financial targets.
It is a pre-condition to the award of any bonus that the Remuneration Committee has determined that there has been a material improvement in safety processes, procedures and outcomes during the year in the relevant business unit before any bonus is paid.
In addition to the bonus payments described above, the Finance Director received a cash payment of 255,673.01 to compensate him for a shortfall in the amount of 2009 LTIP vesting.
The shortfall was as a result of a delay in the grant of awards due to the Company being in a close period at the time the 2009 awards would normally have been granted.
After having reected on the exceptional circumstances, the Committee decided that whilst they could not amend the terms of the Plan they felt it unfair for the Finance Director to be penalised as a result of the late granting of the award.
The cash payment was thus calculated as the difference between the value of the LTIP vesting on 30 June 2012 and the value had it vested on 31 March 2012 ie the vesting date had there been no delay in the 2009 grant.
68 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Delivering on our strategy Business review Governance Financial statements The National Express Group Executive Deferred Bonus Plan Executive Deferred Bonus Plan Deferred bonuses awarded in 2012 based on performance to 31 December 2011 will vest, on 1 March 2013 as set out in the table below.
At 31 Market price During year As at 1 December at date of Date of Date of January 2012 Granted Vested Lapsed 2012 vesting grant vesting Dean Finch 2011 49,427 49,427 221.0p 25.02.11 25.02.12 2012 75,417 75,417 02.03.12 Jez Maiden 2011 39,541 39,541 221.0p 25.02.11 25.02.12 2012 51,832 51,832 02.03.12 The market price per share on the date of award was calculated on basis of the average market price share in the 5 days preceding the date of the grant.
Deferred shares would be required to be forfeited or repaid should it be necessary to restate materially the Companys 2012 results within a two year period following the award of the bonus.
The proportion of the bonus subject to clawback would depend on the extent to which the original bonus turned out to be false following the publication of corrected results.
iv Pensions determined by applying the relevant performance conditions Under the terms of their service agreements, Executive to the date of cessation and scaling back the number of Directors are not entitled to become members of one of the shares awarded on a pro rata basis rounded up to the next Group pension schemes.
The Chief Executive receives a complete six month period from the date of grant unless the Committee determines that it would be inappropriate 35% of salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions.
to apply a pro rata reduction.
Awards lapse on cessation In addition, from 2012, as part of a revised remuneration of employment for any other reason.
structure intended to facilitate his retention described above, the Chief Executive will also accrue rights under a pension LTIP performance conditions promise that will take place over ten years from 1 April 2013.
There are normally two distinct performance conditions The promise provides that a pension benefit will be eligible to applying to awards of both Performance Shares and be drawn based on a notional Company contribution of 25% Matching Shares made.
of salary over the ten year period, revalued at a rate of 5% pa which is broadly comparable to the assumed investment First, the performance condition attached to one-half return used to value pension liabilities across the Group.
of an award Part A is based on the Groups normalised earnings per share EPS growth performance in excess Jez Maiden receives a 25% salary supplement in lieu of of ination over a xed three-year period three financial pension contributions.
years commencing with the financial year in which the v Incentive scheme and share options award is made.
Long term incentive arrangements The performance condition attached to the other half The National Express Group Long Term Incentive Plan of an award Part B is based on the Companys Total LTIP was approved by shareholders at the 2005 AGM and Shareholder Return TSR performance over the same operates as the Companys sole type of executive long term xed three-year period relative to the TSR performance of incentive arrangement.
The LTIP consists of annual awards a bespoke comparator group of transport companies taken of Performance and Matching shares.
A proportion of the predominantly from the FTSE Industrial Transportation and award is made as approved share options under a HMRC FTSE Travel & Leisure sectors.
The companies comprising approved option plan structure.
This does not increase the the comparator group have been chosen on the basis of gross benefit to the participant or the costs to the Company their comparability to National Express Group PLC based or shareholders.
on their size and scope of business operations.
The Committee has retained the power in respect of this Performance shares element of an award to apply an earnings underpin.
Executive Directors are eligible to receive a conditional award of shares up to an equivalent of 100% of basic salary.
There is no ability to retest either performance condition.
The vesting of the award is conditional on meeting the EPS and TSR have generally been chosen for the LTIP performance conditions set out below.
as the most appropriate measures of the Groups long Matching shares term performance, since EPS is an important growth Executive Directors are also eligible to receive awards of measure considered within the Company and a driver of matching shares that are based on a personal investment shareholder value and TSR improves shareholder alignment in National Express Group PLC shares funded either and is consistent with the Company objective of providing through using an annual bonus award to purchase shares superior long term returns to shareholders.
The 2014 EPS or through pledging of shares held not already allocated to targets have been based on non-rail 2011 earnings as the LTIP.
Matching awards are made on the basis of up to the Companys rail franchise is subject to a government two Matching shares being awarded based on the gross tender process.
tax value of the investment for each National Express share For awards granted in 2012 the EPS performance conditions pledged or purchased.
The maximum value of investment applying to Part A of the Awards and the TSR performance in any year is 30% of basic salary.
Matching share awards conditions applying to part B of the Awards are set out in the are also conditional on the performance conditions set table overleaf.
To determine vesting of LTIP awards, the Committee retains If a participant ceases employment before vesting for a independent consultants to test the proportion of an award compassionate reason eg redundancy, retirement, death vesting under the relative TSR test and then reviews the in service, sale of business out of the Companys group his conclusion of this analysis before shares formally vest.
her awards will ordinarily vest.
The extent of vesting will be www.
com 69 Governance Directors remuneration report continued With regard to the EPS targets, vesting is based on Performance conditions for the Chief the Companys audited results with liaison, as required, Executives five year Award between the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Part A of Award EPS conditions relating to one half Performance conditions for LTIP awards of the Award granted in 2012 EPS for the financial year Percentage of part A of ending 31 December 2016 the Award that vests Part A of Award EPS conditions Less than 25 pence 0% EPS for the financial year Percentage of part A of ending 31 December 2014 the Award that vests 25 pence 30% Less than 23.7 pence 0% 28 pence 100% 23.7 pence 30% Between 25 pence and 28 pence 30%100% pro rata 26.4 pence 100% Between 23.7 pence Part B of Award TSR conditions relating to one half and 26.4 pence 30%100% pro rata of the Award Rank of the Companys Percentage of part B Part B of Award TSR conditions TSR as noted above of the Award that vests Rank of the Companys Percentage of part B Below median 0% TSR as noted above of the Award that vests Median 30% Below median 0% 20th percentile 100% Median 30% Between median and 20th 20th percentile 100% percentile 30%100% pro rata Between median and 20thpercentile 30%100% pro rata Performance criteria The Committee believes that budgeted profit and or EPS The table below sets out the percentage of each extant growth as performance measures for the discretionary award that would have vested if the performance conditions bonus scheme and long term incentives, in most normal had been tested at 31 December 2012 without making any circumstances, provide a transparent and accessible allowance for pro rata reduction for any period of less than method of gauging the financial performance of the three years.
The Company calculates performance against these performance measures by reference to the profit Indicative percentage of LTIP awards vesting or earnings per share gures reported in the Companys based on performance to 31 December 2012 audited accounts, which the Company believes to be the Total most transparent and objective measure of the Companys TSR EPS max profit or EPS.
The Committee also monitors the Groups TSR Year of Award element element 100% against the FTSE All-Share Travel & Leisure Index as a broad measure of the Companys performance.
TSR measured 2010 0% 32.5% 32.5% against a more tailored group of comparators has been 2011 0% 0% 0% used by the Company as a primary performance measure for awards made to Executive Directors under the LTIP as 2012 0% 42.22% 42.22% outlined in this report.
Chief Executive five year Award It is currently intended that the performance targets that will As noted above, in response to specic retention concerns apply to awards granted in 2013 will again be an equal blend in respect of the Chief Executive that were brought to the of EPS and TSR.
If it were considered appropriate to make attention of the Remuneration Committee, and to align him any fundamental changes to the performance targets in with the Companys five year business plan, on 3 August 2013, it is anticipated that this would be accompanied by 2012 the Chief Executive was granted a Retention Award a consultation with major shareholders.
comprising a conditional award over 261,407 ordinary shares The graphs on page 72 show a comparison of National in the capital of the Company.
The Retention Award was Express Group PLC total cumulative shareholder return granted pursuant to Rule 9.4.
2 2 of the UKLA Listing Rules.
against that achieved by the FTSE All-Share Travel & Leisure As with the 2012 LTIP awards detailed above, the EPS Index and the FTSE 250 Index.
These indices have been targets have been based on non-rail earnings.
This is selected because the Company is a constituent of each because the Companys rail franchise will soon be subject index with the former including many members of the LTIP to a government tender process.
TSR peer group and the Committee, therefore, feels that these are the most appropriate indices to represent the The performance conditions applying to the Award are Companys relative performance.
set out below and the principal terms of the award are summarised on page 69.
70 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Delivering on our strategy Business review Governance Financial statements Information subject to audit Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards Details of the LTIP and the performance conditions that have applied to each award below are shown on page 69 and in the notes to the LTIP awards table below.
2 The TSR performance conditions applicable to the 2010 and 2011 awards are the same as for the 2012 awards and the relevant maximum and minimum EPS gures are 28 pence and 23 pence and 29.3 pence and 26.1 pence respectively.
3 The aggregate gain on the shares which were exercised in 2012 was 420,000.
Chief Executives five year Award Market Market At 1 At 31 price price Date from During year LTIP Share January December on date of at date of which Expiry Awards 2012 Granted Exercised Expired 2012 award exercise exercisable date Performance shares 261,407 261,407 210.4p 03.08.17 03.08.18 Note: 1 Details of the performance conditions applicable to the 2012 awards are shown on page 70. www.
com 71 Governance Directors remuneration report continued In any event the Committees policy is that payments to Total shareholder return versus Directors on termination should reect the circumstances FTSE All-Share Travel & Leisure Index % that prevail at the time, also taking account, if applicable Source: Thomson Reuters and appropriate, the Directors duty to mitigate.
60 The Committee continuously reviews its policies on 40 executive remuneration and severance in the best interests 20 of shareholders.
Guidance on best practice expectations is taken into account prior to agreeing Directors contractual 0 provisions.
-20 Conditional award of shares -40 On appointment as Group Chief Executive in 2010, Dean -60 Finch was granted a one-off forfeitable share award as compensation for forfeited remuneration from his previous -80 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 employer.
The share award comprised two parts: an award of 28,023 shares the First Award which vested on 1 April National Express Group Cumulative Return 2011 and 18,281 shares the Second Award which vested FTSE All-Share Travel & Leisure Cumulative Return on 1 April 2012.
The Second Award vested during the National Express Annual Return reporting period at a market price per share of 230 pence, FTSE All-Share Travel & Leisure Annual Return at which point the shares were no longer at risk of forfeiture.
Each point plotted on the above graph represents the total cumulative Executive Directors external appointments shareholder return on an investment made in National Express Group on 31 December 2006 compared with an investment in the FTSE Under the terms of their service agreements, Board approval All-Share Travel & Leisure Index, with the corresponding annual returns.
is required before any external appointment may be accepted by an Executive Director.
The Executive Director is permitted to retain any fees paid for such services.
Total shareholder return versus Details of fees received by Executive Directors in 2012 FTSE 250 Index % are shown below.
Source: Thomson Reuters 60 Director Fee External appointment 40 Synthomer plc Jez Maiden 50,000 formerly Yule Catto & Co plc 20 0 Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors The fees of the Non-Executive Directors are set by the -20 Board as a whole and those of the Chairman are set by the -40 Remuneration Committee in both cases following an annual review.
The review takes account of fees paid for similar -60 positions in the market, the time commitment required -80 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 from the Director estimated to be 60 days per year for the Chairman and 20 days per year for the other Non-Executive National Express Group Cumulative Return Directors and any additional responsibilities undertaken, FTSE 250 Cumulative Return such as acting as Chairman to one of the Board Committees National Express Annual Return or fullling the role of Senior Independent Director.
NonFTSE 250 Annual Return Executive Directors are not eligible to receive pension entitlements or bonuses and may not participate in share Each point plotted on the above graph represents the total cumulative option schemes.
shareholder return on an investment made in National Express Group on 31 December 2006 compared with an investment in the FTSE 250 In line with the decision not to increase the basic salaries Index, with the corresponding annual returns.
of the Executive Directors in 2013, it was agreed that there would be no increase in the fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors service contracts, notice periods Directors in 2013.
The fees payable to the Chairman have and termination payments also not been increased.
For 2013, increases to base Executive Directors salaries will be strictly monitored in line with our focus on The contract dates and notice periods for the Executive cost control.
Across the Group and depending on the Directors are shown in the table on page 73. businesses involved and the locations, we envisage salaries for employees generally being frozen or increased The service contracts of both the Executive Directors, by up to 2%.
which are rolling contracts, contain a provision, exercisable at the option of the Company, to pay an amount on early termination of employment equal to one years salary or, in the case of Dean Finch, one years salary, salary supplement in lieu of pension and car allowance.
The Company will use the payment in lieu of notice provisions when the speed, certainty and protection of restrictive covenants afforded by such clauses are thought to be in the best interests of the Company and the circumstances surrounding the departure of the relevant Director justify their use.
72 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Delivering on our strategy Business review Governance Financial statements Senior executive remuneration 2012 2011 The Remuneration Committee reviews and notes the salaries of senior executives within the Group.
The salaries of Chairmans fee 225,000 225,000 this group of employees by band are as shown to the right.
Non-Executive Director basic fee 45,500 45,500 Salary band Number of executives Senior Independent Director 000 2012 additional fee 5,000 5,000 201410 7 Committee Chairman additional fee 10,000 10,000 151200 12 Non-Executive Directors appointments 101150 40 The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts 75100 45 with the Company but are appointed for an initial three-year term.
Non-Executive Directors are typically expected to serve for two three-year terms, although their appointment can be terminated either by them or the Company on one months written notice.
It is open to the Company to invite a Non-Executive to serve for a further period after the expiry of two three-year terms.
All Directors are required to stand for re-election by shareholders each year.
The original appointment dates of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are shown in the table below.
Executive Directors service contracts and notice periods Director Contract date Notice period from the Company Notice period from the Director Jez Maiden 17 November 2008 12 months 12 months Dean Finch 16 December 2009 12 months 6 months Non-Executive Directors appointment dates Director Date of appointment Sir John Armitt 1 January 2013 Joaqun Ayuso 1 June 2011 Jorge Cosmen 1 December 2005 Sir Andrew Foster 1 August 2004 Jackie Hunt 13 September 2012 Chris Muntwyler 11 May 2011 Lee Sander 1 June 2011 Tim Score 21 February 2005 Directors minimum shareholding In order to align the interests of the Directors more closely with the shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has also determined that the Executive Directors should build up a share fund equal to at least one years current salary over a period of five years.
com 73 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Directors shareholdings Directors interests and transactions The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the Directors in ofce as at 31 December 2012 are shown below: At 1 January 2012 or on Change from 31 December At 31 December 2012 appointment if later 2012 to 28 February 2013 Executive Directors Dean Finch 138,252 114,579 Jez Maiden 168,919 116,347 Non-Executive Directors Joaqun Ayuso 1 Jorge Cosmen 88,860,685 88,860,685 Miranda Curtis resigned 10 May 2012 John Devaney resigned 31 January 2013 76,666 76,666 Sir Andrew Foster 22,893 22,893 Jackie Hunt appointed 13 September 2012 Chris Muntwyler Lee Sander Tim Score 1 Jorge Cosmens holding includes shares held by European Express Enterprises Ltd which are shown on page 59 in the list of major shareholdings in the Company.
The Register of Directors interests maintained by the Company contains full details of the Directors holdings of shares and options over shares in the Company.
The mid-market price of the Companys ordinary shares at 31 December 2012 was 204 pence 2011: 223 pence and the range during the year ended 31 December 2012 was 164.5 pence to 252 pence.
Directors emoluments Performance Benets in lieu Total Total 1 Salary fees related bonus Benets of pension 2012 2011 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Dean Finch 550 644 26 192 1,412 1,454 2 Jez Maiden 420 491 24 105 1,040 1,021 Non-Executive Directors 4 Joaqun Ayuso 49 49 30 Jorge Cosmen Deputy Chairman 45 45 45 John Devaney Chairman resigned 31 January 2013 225 225 225 Sir Andrew Foster 51 51 44 Jackie Hunt appointed 13 September 2012 13 13 4 Chris Muntwyler 59 59 37 4 Lee Sander 69 69 30 Tim Score Senior Independent Director 60 60 60 Former Non-Executive Directors Miranda Curtis resigned 10 May 2012 23 23 55 1 Benets in kind include a cash alternative to a fully expensed car, life assurance and health insurance.
2 Jez Maiden sacrificed 20,000 of his cash bonus entitlement before its award.
Pension contributions equal to this amount were made into pension plans for the benefit of his dependants.
The amount shown in the bonus column reects the full bonus earned.
3 As explained on page 68, Jez Maiden received an additional one-off bonus of 255,673 to compensate him for a shortfall in the amount of the 2009 LTIP vesting.
4 An additional fee of 4,000 is paid for attendance at Board meetings held outside the continent in which the Non-Executive Director is resident.
By order of the Board Sir Andrew Foster Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 28 February 2013 74 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Delivering on our strategy Business review Governance Financial statements Chief Executives 5 year Retention Award In accordance with Listing Rule 9.4.
2 2 the principal terms Variation of share capital of the Retention Award are summarised below: In the event of any variation of the share capital of the Company, a demerger, special dividend or other similar Structure of Award event which affects the market price of the Groups shares The Award is structured as a conditional award of shares.
to a material extent the Committee may make such No payment was required for the grant of the Award.
adjustments to the Award as it considers appropriate.
The Award is not transferable, except on death.
The Award is not pensionable.
No shareholder rights until vesting The Award does not confer any shareholder rights, for Vesting of Award example, the right to vote the shares, until the Award has The Award will normally vest on the fifth anniversary vested and shares delivered under the Award.
of the grant date of the Award to the extent that the At the discretion of the Committee, the Chief Executive performance conditions are satisfied and subject to will be entitled to receive a payment in cash and or shares the terms of the Award.
on or shortly following the vesting the Award, of an amount Leaving employment equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on The Award will ordinarily lapse in the event of the Chief the vested shares between the time when the Award was Executives cessation of service within the Group prior granted and the time when it vests.
to the vesting of the Award.
Source of shares However, if the Chief Executive ceases employment The Award may only be satisfied with existing shares.
for certain compassionate reasons eg redundancy, No newly issued or treasury shares will be used in retirement, ill health, sale of business out of the Group connection with the Award.
or for any other reason determined by the Committee, the Award shall either continue on its terms and vest on Extenuating events normal timetable or vest early at the discretion of the In exceptional circumstances, the Committee may Committee.
In such circumstances the extent to which defer the vesting of the Award to such later date as it the Award would vest would be dependent on the extent so determines, or cancel such Award, if it considers, to which the performance conditions were met over the acting fairly and reasonably, that there is any sufciently full period or curtailed period as relevant.
Furthermore, in extenuating event or events in the 12 months prior to the such circumstances the size of the Award would be scaled vesting of the Award that warrants such determination.
back by reference to the time elapsed since date of grant Amendment rounding up to the nearest half year unless the Committee The terms of the Award may be amended in such determined that it would be inappropriate to apply such manner as the Committee may determine, provided that time pro-ration in the relevant circumstances.
amendments to the Award to the Chief Executives benefit Corporate events may only be made with prior consent of shareholders In the event of a takeover, scheme of arrangement or and any to his detriment subject to his consent.
winding up of the Company not being a corporate reorganisation the Award would vest early to the extent that the Committee considers that the performance conditions had been satisfied at the time of such event, with a pro-rata reduction in the size of the Award based on the time elapsed between the date of the Award and the date of the relevant event rounded up to the nearest half year, unless the Committee determines that it would be inappropriate to apply a pro rata reduction in the relevant circumstances.
In the event of a corporate reorganisation the Award would be replaced by an equivalent new award.
