Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 50 Directors remuneration report Dear Shareholder, Retaining and recruiting our executive team is an important On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our Directors responsibility of the Board and accordingly the Remuneration remuneration report for 2012, for which we will be seeking your Committee undertook processes and shareholder consultation approval at our AGM on 10 May 2013. to set the remuneration for the appointment of the new Chief Financial officer and the Operations Director.
During 2012, Since the Companys listing in July 2010, the Remuneration there were no increases in base salaries of Executive Directors Committee has been focused on introducing a number apart from on their promotion or appointment to the Board and of changes that help to bring the overall structure of our an increase for the Chief Executive officer.
executives remuneration into line with the market for listed company executives.
One such change was the introduction An important function performed by the Remuneration of the first executive Annual Incentive Plan for the Company Committee was to compile an attractive remuneration package in 2011.
The Remuneration Committee wishes to further this for a successor Chairman of the Board.
Following advice from alignment in 2013, by proposing the adoption of a new longour external advisers and a shareholder consultation process, term incentive plan.
The plan is intended to take the place we agreed remuneration for the newly appointed Chairman of the existing Joint Share Ownership Scheme as the link Designate, Sir Stuart Rose.
between executive reward and the longer-term performance and objectives of the Company.
These changes are intended to We are focused on providing clear reporting on past help the Remuneration Committee nd a position of appropriate remuneration and future policy.
We welcome shareholder balance between remuneration elements that attract, retain and feedback on this report.
motivate the right calibre of senior executive talent and take into account the entrepreneurial culture of the business.
During the financial year, the Remuneration Committee undertook a review of the Annual Incentive Plan structure in place for our Executive Directors and concluded that the core financial measures remained sound and should be retained in order to encourage strong growth.
The plan was adjusted to meet the Companys objectives for 2013 and to move the Douglas McCallum maximum payout under the plan into line with the appropriate Remuneration Committee Chairman market comparators.
