GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT Risk INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIRMAN The Committee undertakes a careful review of its OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE remuneration policy annually to ensure that it is Dear Shareholder consistent with the business strategy and does not, as an unintended consequence, encourage or reward On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the inappropriate risk-taking by the executives.
The Directors Remuneration Report for 2012.
As usual, we Committee is comfortable that the current structure, will be seeking your approval of this report at our AGM weighted towards long-term variable pay, and operating on 6 June 2013. with share ownership guidelines and clawback provisions, does not inadvertently encourage undue risk taking.
Performance and reward As described in the Chairmans and Chief Executive Voting at the 2012 AGM Officers joint review, 2012 was another year of As required by the regulations, the Directors significant progress at Ophir.
Our success has come Remuneration Report for 2011 was put to shareholders in terms of successful drilling results in Tanzania and for an advisory vote at the 2012 AGM.
The report was Equatorial Guinea and in the acquisition of major approved by 87.61% of those shareholders who voted 3D seismic data in a number of our key countries of being 76.87% of the total issued capital as at the date operation.
All operations were conducted safely.
activities result in our net risked prospective resources growing to circa 900 million barrels of oil equivalent, In addition, the Exceptional Long-Term Incentive Award granted to the Chief Executive Officer during the year based on independent audits.
under review, was also the subject of shareholder vote Against this background, the Remuneration Committee at our 2012 AGM.
The binding vote was approved by the Committee considers the remuneration paid 81.21% of those shareholders who voted being 78.78% to our management team to fairly reect their of the total issued capital as at the date of the AGM.
Ophir includes a broad These results followed extensive discussion with range of the Companys KPIs in its annual bonus plan a number of our major shareholders and I remain and the Company delivered substantial progress against each metric during the year in delivering the committed to continuing engagement with shareholders as our remuneration policy develops.
As a result, annual bonuses were paid at 89.33% of the maximum.
UK legislative changes In June 2012, the Department for Business, Innovation There were no long term incentive awards vesting & Skills BIS published the draft legislation in relation during the year in light of the relatively short period since the Company listed on the FTSE All-Share Index to directors remuneration reporting regulations.
The final regulations are expected to be published in July November 2011.
2013 and will change the way in which all companies, Remuneration policy for 2013 including Ophir, are required to report and make In line with the Companys policy, remuneration for decisions in respect of executive directors executive directors is generally weighted towards remuneration.
The revised reporting requirements variable pay, with xed pay set below comparable are anticipated to apply to Ophir for the financial year median benchmarks.
Since the Company operates in a sector where In order to provide for a smooth transition towards the investment decisions have multi-year impacts, the first year of mandatory disclosure, and in order to majority of variable pay is weighted towards long term comply as much as possible with current best practice share-based incentives which operate in tandem with reporting amongst FTSE 350 companies, the Company minimum share ownership guidelines.
This structure has elected to present the Directors Remuneration ensures that clear alignment is achieved between Report for 2012 in two sections: a forward looking executives and shareholders.
Remuneration Policy Report and backward looking Remuneration Implementation Report.
However, the For 2013, the Committee approved modest increases in basic salary of 3.5% with effect from 1 January 2013 overall report will remain subject to a single advisory vote, in line with current legislation, at the 2013 AGM for the executive directors.
This increase was also and the Remuneration Policy Report section will consistent with the typical salary budget operated for the Group as a whole.
not be put to a binding vote at this stage.
Finally, reecting the current legislative requirements, With the exception of introducing clawback provisions into the Companys incentive plans for executive this report continues to satisfy the reporting requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and directors for 2013, there are no changes to our annual Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium sized Companies bonus or our long term incentive policies for 2013 either in terms of quantum or structure.
Full details and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008. of these are set out on pages 61 to 63.
Clawback JOHN LANDER provisions have been introduced in response to Remuneration Committee Chairman developments in best practice.
COM 60 GOVERNANCE PART A: UNAUDITED INFORMATION Base salary REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Base salaries are reviewed annually.
New Bridge Street A key element of the Companys remuneration policy periodically provides the Committee with benchmark is to achieve a level of remuneration which will attract, data for review.
After considering the performance of motivate and retain executives of the highest calibre.
the executives and the Company as a whole over the The Company operates in a sector where investment year, an increase of 3.5% to the basic salary of executive decisions have multi-year impacts.
For this reason the directors was agreed, effective from 1 January 2013.
Committee has elected to adopt an executive As for the prior year, the increase is in line with the remuneration policy which is structured so that a cost of living index and comparable to that provided significant proportion is made up of long term shareto Group employees.
With effect from 1 January 2013 the basic salaries for The Committee has elected to retain the basic level of the executive directors will therefore be: Nick Cooper pay, benets and pension contributions for executive 407,530 and Jonathan Taylor 380,363. directors at or below the average benchmark industry Pension and other benets levels, and to more adequately reward the Directors if Executive directors are also provided with the following they meet or exceed the targets set under the variable benets: i Company pension superannuation components of their remuneration packages.
The contributions of the greater of the statutory minimum effect of this approach is to ensure that executive or 11% of basic salary paid into their personal pension management are neither encouraged to undertake, arrangements: ii eligibility to participate in any share nor rewarded, for inappropriate risk-taking and their option scheme for employees: iii permanent health interests are more closely aligned with those of the insurance: iv private health insurance including Companys shareholders.
spouse and children : v life assurance: vi medical The remuneration structure for executive directors evacuation insurance: vii 25 days paid holiday in is made up of two elements: xed remuneration addition to British bank and other public holidays: consisting of base salary, benets including nonand viii six consecutive months paid sick leave in contributory health insurance and life assurance and any 12-month period.
pension contributions and variable remuneration Annual bonus annual bonus scheme and long term share incentives.
The annual bonus plan has been designed to provide New Board appointments reward for above average performance.
The Base salary levels will be set to reect the experience performance targets for the bonus plan, linked to of the individual, appropriate market data and internal agreed key performance indicators KPI, are reviewed relativities but with a view to operating within the by the Committee annually.
If it is considered In relation to performance-related annual bonuses for appropriate to appoint a new director on a below the year ending 31 December 2013, the Committee has market salary, they may be the subject of a series set KPI targets relating to the following measures: of increases to a desired salary positioning over an As a percentage of maximum appropriate timeframe e. g. 2 to 3 years subject Measure bonus opportunity to performance in post.
Health, safety and 30% Normal policy will be for the new director to participate environmental in the remuneration structure detailed above.
The performance corporate Committee may also grant a share option award to a social responsibility newly appointed executive director to assist facilitating his recruitment under the Companys 2006 share Personal performance 30% option scheme.
Increase in Reserves 30% Should it be the case that the Committee considered it and Resources necessary to buyout incentive pay which an individual Financial Planning 30% would forfeit on leaving their current employer, such and Control compensation, where possible, would be structured so that the terms of the buy-out mirrored the form and Portfolio Management 30% structure of the remuneration being replaced e. g. new business vested share awards may be replaced with shares in Ophir while recently granted long term incentive awards The Committee retains discretion to reduce the total bonus payment to executive directors in the event of a serious HSE incident or series may be replaced with an exceptional performance of incidents.
related LTIP award or share option award.
The maximum annual bonus opportunity for executive directors is 150% of basic salary.
No bonus is payable for below target performance, with bonuses earned on a sliding scale where appropriate based on the Committees assessment of achievement against the targets set.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 61 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Long term incentives Awards vest on a straight line basis relative to the Details of long term incentives held by the executive Companys total shareholder return TSR performance directors in post during the year under review are shown over a three year period compared to a comparator in the table on page 71.
No executive directors exercised group set on grant.
No vesting occurs for below median any share options during the year 2011: Nil.
At median 25% of the award vests, with full vesting at the upper quartile.
In addition, the 2006 Share Option Plan Committee may reduce the number of shares in respect As previously advised, the Companys 2006 Share of which an award would otherwise vest based upon Option Plan 2006 Plan is no longer being used as TSR performance if it considers that the TSR achieved a principal feature of the Companys remuneration over the three year period does not reect the arrangements.
In order to retain exibility when underlying financial performance of the Company considering the remuneration arrangements for senior or that key operational metrics have not been met.
executive management, the Committee has retained the 2006 Plan for use on an exceptional basis only e. g. to The Committee has also confirmed that relative TSR facilitate a senior recruitment.
No awards under the performance remains the most appropriate metric for 2006 Plan were made to the executive directors during use by the Company in relation to LTIP awards.
The the year ended 31 December 2012. constituents of the comparator group were reviewed during the year and, for the 2013 award, Petroceltic Long-Term Incentive Plan 2011 International plc replaced Melrose Resources plc The Company operates a Long Term Incentive Plan following their merger.
The constituents of the LTIP LTIP under which conditional awards or nominal cost comparator group are therefore: options may be granted linked to the long term performance of the Group.
The maximum value of Afren plc Bowleven plc shares that can be granted to any participant is 200% of salary each year, although awards can be made up Cairn Energy plc Chariot Oil & Gas Limited to 300% of salary in exceptional circumstances.
Cobalt International Kosmos Energy Ltd Awards in 2013 and subsequent years will be Energy, Inc. determined using the weighted average share price EnQuest plc Essar Energy plc for the period from 15 November to 14 February.
This policy employs the same averaging period as per 2012 Faroe Petroleum plc Genel Energy plc three months to smooth short term uctuations but Gulf Keystone Heritage Oil plc establishes a new policy that will take the average up Petroleum Limited to the time that the Committee normally approves the individual LTIP allocations i. e. its February meeting.
JKX Oil & Gas plc Maurel & Prom This is considered to result in the number of shares Petroceltic International plc Premier Oil plc comprising individual awards better reecting the information presented to the Committee at the time of Rockhopper Exploration plc Salamander Energy plc approving the awards in principle.
Awards will continue Soco International plc Tullow Oil plc to be granted as soon as the preliminary results are announced or later if a close period continues to apply For 2013, the Committee is also to introduce clawback as of that date.
The normal LTIP performance period provisions that will enable the Committee to clawback would remain as three calendar years beginning on value overpaid in the event of a material misstatement 1 January of the year of grant and ending on of the Companys results within a two year period in 31 December of the third year.
Deferred Share Plan 2012 The Deferred Share Plan 2012 was approved by shareholders at the 2012 AGM.
It is intended to facilitate the deferral of a portion of participants annual bonuses into ordinary shares.
Awards under the Deferred Share Plan 2012 are on broadly the same terms as the LTIP.
COM 62 GOVERNANCE Chief Executive Officers exceptional LTIP award For Tranche 3, the same broad outline of performance In June 2012, following consultation with the Companys targets is anticipated to apply with the Committee to major shareholders and their approval at the AGM, an review the composition of the TSR comparator group exceptional one-off award of ordinary shares the prior to the start of the performance period to ensure exceptional award was granted to Nick Cooper under it remains t for purpose and companies may be the LTIP.
The purpose of the exceptional award was removed, replaced or added as the Committee thinks to put Nick Cooper in a position which would partially appropriate.
The Committee will also consider whether replicate that of the Companys founders and thereby it remains appropriate to apply the same CAGR targets ensure that he remained motivated to continue of 20%-35% before start of Tranche 3s performance generating substantial returns to shareholders.
Shareholders will be consulted in the event that 02 the Committee considers that any material changes To ensure that the exceptional award, totalling 880,000 are necessary to Tranche 3s performance conditions.
shares, encouraged Nick Cooper to generate sustainable long term returns to shareholders, the award For each of the above tranches, the extent of vesting was effectively split into three tranches which based on the TSR conditions may be reduced if the will vest based on independent three year performance vesting result is not considered a fair reection of the periods for which relative TSR and or absolute TSR underlying financial performance of the Company targets are intended to apply, as follows: which will also enable the Committee to take into account the Companys HSE performance.
Award Size of Performance Performance The above award is also subject to clawback provisions Tranche award period conditions that will enable the Committee to clawback value Tranche 1 240,000 19.06.2012- Absolute TSR overpaid in the event of a material misstatement of shares 18.06.2015 the Companys results within a two year period.
Tranche 2 320,000 19.06.2013- 50:50 relative Following the grant of the exceptional award, Nick shares 18.06.2016 TSR: absolute Cooper will not receive any further LTIP awards until 2015.
TSR Share ownership guidelines Tranche 3 320,000 19.06.2014- 50:50 relative The Board has adopted share ownership guidelines shares 18.06.2017 TSR: absolute requiring all executive directors in post as at TSR 31 December 2012 to hold ordinary shares equivalent in value to 300% of their annual salary the guidelines.
For Tranche 1, the absolute TSR performance condition Until the required holding is achieved, the Chief Executive will be based on the 90 day average share price ending Officer will be expected to retain 100% of shares resulting on the last day of the relevant performance period.
25% from the exercise of share options granted to him or of the award will vest at 20% compound annual growth shares received under the LTIP net of any shares sold to rate CAGR above 4.95 8.55 at the end of the three meet tax liabilities or exercise costs while other executive year period with full vesting at 35% CAGR 12.18. directors will be expected to retain 50% of shares.
Straight line vesting takes place between performance Any executive director appointed after 31 December points.
In setting these targets, the Committee 2012 will be expected to hold ordinary shares equivalent considered Ophirs cost of capital and the expectations in value to 100% of their annual salary.
This award was granted in addition to an award under the LTIP in 2012 see page 71 so that his aggregate incentive incorporated both a relative TSR and absolute TSR performance target.
Both awards formed part of the 2012 consultation with shareholders prior to the AGM.
For Tranche 2, the same relative TSR performance target as described for the 2013 LTIP awards above will apply to half of the shares comprising Tranche 2 with the performance period running from 19 June 2013 to 18 June 2016 with the remaining half subject to absolute TSR targets that require the same compound annual growth rates as detailed above for Tranche 1.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 63 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The table below sets out the key elements of executive director pay as at 1 January: Purpose and link to strategy Operation Base salary To provide the core reward for the role.
Reviewed annually and effective from 1 January.
Sufficient level to help recruit and retain employees.
Decision influenced by: Reflects role and experience of individual.
5 1 #!0 Salaries are set by reference to companies of a similar size and complexity.
Benets To recruit and retain employees.
Directors are entitled to health insurance, life assurance, medical evacuation insurance, holiday pay and sick leave.
Pension To provide long term savings via pension provision.
The Company operates a defined contribution pension scheme or may contribute directly into an executive directors personal pension.
Pension benefits are accrued according to length of service up to retirement.
Annual Bonus To incentivise the execution of business strategy.
Targets are renewed annually and relate to the business as a whole.
Rewards the achievement of annual financial and strategic business Bonus level, payable in cash, is determined by the Committee following the end of targets and delivery of personal objectives.
the financial year and is based on performance against targets.
Long term Incentive Plan To incentivise the achievement of business strategy over the The Companys Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP was approved by shareholders longer term.
Awards are granted subject to challenging three year performance targets.
Chief Executive Officer Exceptional Long-Term Incentive Award To motivate the Chief Executive Officer to continue generating An exceptional one-off award of 880,000 shares was made to the Chief Executive substantial returns to shareholders.
Award structured to align the individual with the founders of Ophir The award has three separate tranches Tranche 1: 240,000 shares, Tranche 2: and reflect additional responsibilities applying to the Chief Executive 320,000 shares and Tranche 3: 320,000 shares.
Officer following the 2012 Board restructuring.
The performance period for each tranche is three years.
Clawback provisions apply that will enable the Committee to clawback value overpaid in the event of a material misstatement of the Companys results within a two year period.
Share ownership To align the interests of directors with those of the 300% of salary holding required for executive directors in post as at 31 December Companys shareholders.
Executive directors appointed after this date to hold 100% of salary.
The Chief Executive Officer is required to retain 100% of the vested or exercised shares net of tax until the shareholding guideline is met.
Any other executive director is required to retain 50% of the vested or exercised shares net of tax until the shareholding guideline is met.
COM 64 GOVERNANCE Opportunity Performance Metric Changes for 2013 Continuing directors salaries are None Directors salaries will increase by eligible for review annually in line 3.5% in 2013 in line with the pay with the Companys policy.
review for UK based employees The salaries for the executive directors for 2012 were: % ', !.
02 The Committee retains discretion to grant greater increases following promotion or mid-year changes in responsibility or to new or recent hires where the initial base salary is significantly below benchmarked salaries.
n a n a No change The executive directors receive a n a No change Company contribution into their personal pensions to the greater of the statutory minimum and 11% of salary.
The maximum award under the The bonus is based on the achievement of a number of equally weighted business Reflecting developments in annual bonus scheme is 150% objectives, including: institutional investors best practice, of salary.
clawback provisions will apply to the 1.
Health, safety and environmental performance corporate social responsibility 2013 annual bonus that will enable 2.
Personal objectives the Committee to clawback value 3.
Reserves and Resources overpaid in the event of a material misstatement of the Companys 4.
Finance results within a two year period.
Portfolio Management new business The Committee retains discretion to reduce the bonus payment in the event of a serious HSE incident or series of incidents.
The maximum annual award is Awards vest based on the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance The Chief Executive Officer will not 200% of salary although the over a three year performance period compared to a comparator group set on receive an LTIP award in 2013 as a Committee is able to grant an grant.
result of his Exceptional Long-Term award of up to 300% in Incentive Award granted in 2012.
25% of the award vests at median, rising on a straight line basis to 100% for upper exceptional circumstances.
No vesting occurs for below median performance.
Clawback provisions will also apply for awards granted in 2013 which An underpin applies that enables the TSR vesting result to be scaled back if the broadly mirror the clawback vesting result is not consistent with underlying financial performance and or key provisions for the annual operational financial metrics have not been achieved.
The three tranches comprising the Tranche 1 is subject to an absolute TSR performance condition which will require No change award vest independently in 2015, compound TSR growth of at least 20% p. a. from a share price of 4.95 for 25% 2016 and 2017. to vest through to 35% p. a. TSR growth for full vesting.
Performance is measured from 19 June 2012 to 18 June 2015.
An underpin applies that enables the TSR vesting result to be scaled back if the vesting result is not consistent with underlying financial performance and or key operational financial metrics have not been achieved.
Tranche 2 is subject to an equal split of relative TSR as above for the LTIP and absolute TSR performance as above for Tranche 1.
Performance is measured from 19 June 2013 to 18 June 2016.
It is intended that Tranche 3 will operate based on the same conditions.
Performance will be measured from 19 June 2014 to 18 June 2017.
This target will be subject to review prior to becoming effective with any changes subject to dialogue with shareholders.
Tranches 2 and 3 will operate subject to the same underpin as Tranche 1. n a n a No change ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 65 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Overall approach to reward EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS: SERVICE CONTRACTS When setting the remuneration policy for executive ANDREMUNERATION directors, the Committee takes into account the pay Nick Cooper and Jonathan Taylor have rolling term and employment conditions for other employees in the service agreements with the Company.
This process ensures that any increase to the may terminate either executive directors employment basic pay of executive directors is not out of proportion by giving not less than 12 months written notice and with that proposed for other employees.
Jonathan Taylor may terminate his employment by giving not less than six months written notice.
Nick Performance graphs Cooper may terminate his employment by giving The following graph shows the Companys TSR not less than 12 months written notice.
performance since trading of the Companys shares began on the London Stock Exchange on 13 July 2011 Up to the date of his departure from the Company, Alan against the group of companies used as the TSR Stein had a rolling term employment contract with the comparator group for the 2012 LTIP awards.
The graph Company and Ophir Services Pty Limited, a subsidiary also shows the Companys TSR performance since of the Company.
Ophir Services was entitled to trading of the Companys shares began on the London terminate Dr Steins employment by giving not less than Stock Exchange on 13 July 2011 against the FTSE 250, 12 months written notice and Alan Stein was entitled the broad equity index of which Ophir is a constituent.
to terminate his employment by giving not less than six months written notice.
Total shareholder return The service contracts each contain a payment in lieu Source: Thomson Reuters 250 of notice provision together with a provision enabling the relevant employer to put the executive director on garden leave for up to six months at any time after 200 notice to terminate the service contract has been given by the executive director or the relevant employer or the executive director has resigned without giving due 150 notice and the relevant employer has not accepted the resignation.
Any payment in lieu of notice is limited to 100 basic salary.
The service contracts of Nick Cooper and Jonathan 50 Taylor provide that if within three months of a change of control of the Company, the relevant employer and the executive director have failed to agree new terms and 0 conditions of employment, then the relevant employer 13 Jul 2011 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 Ophir FTSE 250 LTIP TSR Comparator Group shall be deemed to have terminated the service contract Average immediately and the executive director will be entitled to be paid 12 months basic salary.
A similar clause was This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2012, contained within the service contract of Alan Stein of 100 invested in Ophir Energy plc on 13 July 2011 prior to his leaving employment on 19 June 2012.
The the date of listing on the London Stock Exchange executive directors will not be entitled to any other compared with the value of 100 invested in the payment or notice or payment in lieu of notice in FTSE 250 Index and the LTIP TSR Comparator addition to this change of control payment.
inclusion of such provision on a change of control is now considered a legacy issue by the Committee with executives in post prior to the IPO having consistent provisions in this regard.
Such provisions will not form part of future contracts for executive directors, in accordance with best practice.
COM 66 GOVERNANCE A summary of the terms of the service contracts of Prior to his resignation on 6 August 2012, Patrick Spinks executive directors in position as at 31 December 2012 letter of appointment as an independent non-executive is set out below: director of the Company contained the same terms as above.
Patrick Spink did not receive any payment on the Name Continuous Contract Notice by Notice by termination of his appointment.
employment date Company Executive The fees for the Companys chairman and independent Nicholas 1 June 20 March 12 12 non-executive directors are determined by the Board Cooper 2011 2012 months months as a whole with the relevant individuals absenting themselves from discussions relating directly to their Jonathan 1 June 16 October 12 6 02 own remuneration.
The Boards policy in relation to Taylor 2004 2007 months months the fee payable to the Chairman is that it should be comparable to the median fee payable for nonCopies of the service agreements for executive executive chairmen of companies of a comparable size directors, together with the letters of appointment for and complexity.
Remuneration paid to independent the non-executive directors detailed below, are available non-executive directors is set at a level to attract for inspection during normal business hours at the persons with the necessary experience and ability Companys registered office.
to make a significant contribution to the Companys External appointments operations.
Remuneration levels are agreed based With the prior permission of the Board, executive on external advice and give consideration to the time directors are permitted to accept external directorships commitment and responsibilities of the role.
and to retain any fees payable in respect of those roles.
Following a review of the fee payable to the Companys Neither Nick Cooper nor Jonathan Taylor held any such chairman and its independent non-executive directors directorship during the year under review.
Alan Stein no increase has been proposed to the basic fee for 2013. serves as Chairman of Neon Energy Limited, an As a result, the fees payable to the Chairman and the unrelated entity listed on the Australian Stock Exchange.
independent non-executive directors for 2012, and For the period to 19 June 2012, being the date on which proposed for 2013, are: Alan Stein resigned as a director of the Company, he received remuneration of US$28,918 in relation to this Chairmans fee 140,000 per annum appointment 2011 full year : US$53,248.
Non-executive director basic fee 70,000 per annum NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS: LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT AND FEES Committee chairmanship fee 5,000 per annum Each independent non-executive director during the year, and to the date of this report being Nicholas Smith, An additional one-off fee of 10,000 was paid to John Ronald Blakely, John Lander, Dennis McShane until Lander in relation to the exceptional time commitment 18 February 2013, Bill Schrader from 18 February 2013 required for chairing and preparing papers for the high and Lyndon Powell, has a letter of appointment from the number of Committee meetings held in the year under Company.
The letters of appointment do not specically review.
This additional commitment was, in part, provide for terms of appointment, termination effected by Ophirs transition to the Official List.
The notication periods or entitlement to payment on Committee expects to hold a smaller number of termination, however there is an expectation that all meetings during 2013 and beyond and the exceptional independent directors will serve for an initial three year time commitment required from the Committee term.
The Company may terminate the appointment chairman in 2012 is not expected to recur.
under each letter of appointment if the independent non-executive director has committed a serious or repeated breach or non-observance of his obligations to the Company.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 67 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Prior to his retirement from the Board on 19 June 2012, ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE Rajan Tandon held office as a non-executive director by REMUNERATION COMMITTEE virtue of a relationship agreement between the Mittal The role of the Committee is to determine the Group and the Company.
Neither Rajan Tandon nor the remuneration policy of the Company in order to Mittal Group received any remuneration in respect of facilitate the recruitment, retention and motivation Rajan Tandons services as a director nor was he entitled the executive directors and key senior management.
to any payment on the termination of his services.
The policy is reviewed at least annually in order to ensure that it is consistent with business strategy.
The Chairman and non-executive directors are not The Committee also monitors the overall remuneration entitled to participate in the Companys executive structure across the Group to ensure that a balanced remuneration programmes or pension arrangements.
approach is adopted in relation to all employees.
The During the year, the Company did not issue options to Committees full terms of reference, which are reviewed any of the non-executive directors nor to any entity in annually, are available on the Companys website.
which they are deemed to be interested.
ADVISER TO THE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION IMPLEMENTATION REPORT New Bridge Street, an Aon Hewitt company, was REMUNERATION COMMITTEE appointed as independent consultants to the MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE Committee in relation to advice on remuneration and The members of the Remuneration Committee during share incentives both for Executive directors and the the year ended 31 December 2012, together with details wider senior executive management population in of their individual attendance at Committee meetings September 2011.
New Bridge Street provides services to held during the year, are set out below: the Company on a called on rather than retained basis.
Meeting New Bridge Street is a member of the Remuneration Committee Member Attendance Consultants Group and complies with its code of conduct.
Details of the terms of engagement for John Lander, Committee Chairman 10 10 New Bridge Street are available on request from the Ronald Blakely 2 2 Company Secretary.
Neither New Bridge Street, nor any other Aon Hewitt company, provide other services to Dennis McShane 10 10 the Company.
Lyndon Powell 10 10 Nicholas Smith 10 10 Ronald Blakely was appointed to the Committee on 19June 2012 and has attended every subsequent meeting.
Members of the Committee are appointed by the Board and all of its members are considered to be independent.
The Chairman of the Company, Nicholas Smith, who is a member of the Committee, was independent on appointment.
The Chief Executive Officer and advisors to the Committee may also be invited to attend meetings as necessary.
During the year, the Chief Executive Officer, General Counsel and representatives from New Bridge Street, Eversheds LLP and Prism Cosec attended meetings and provided guidance and advice as necessary.
Executive directors and other attendees are not entitled to vote on any matter put before the Committee and do not participate in any discussion relating to their own remuneration or remit.
COM 68 GOVERNANCE PART B: AUDITED INFORMATION DIRECTORS FEES AND EMOLUMENTS The salaries, fees and benets paid to the executive and non-executive directors for the year ended 31 December 2012 are detailed below: Director Base Salary Termination Other Total Total US$000 Fees Bonus Pension Payments Benets 2012 2011 Executive directors 02 2 1 Nick Cooper 624 413 69 8 1,113 382 2 Jonathan Taylor 582 749 64 1,395 990 Chairman and Non-executive directors Nicholas Smith 222 222 177 3 Ronald Blakely 122 122 52 4 John Lander 135 135 104 5 Dennis McShane 119 119 126 Lyndon Powell 119 119 104 Former directors 6 Alan Stein 477 1,192 13 992 2,674 1,249 Patrick Spink 76 76 52 Rajan Tandon 1 Prior year emoluments reflect the fact that Nick Cooper was only appointed as Chief Executive Officer and as a director of the Company on 1 June 2011.
2 Subsequent to the year end, Nick Cooper and Jonathan Taylor were awarded annual bonuses of 527,625 and 492,450 respectively, in relation to 2012.
3 Includes US$2,900 Audit Committee chairmanship fee for 2011 paid during the year.
4 Includes a one-off fee of US$15,848 in relation to the exceptional time commitment provided in 2012.
5 Prior year included a one-off fee of US$22,187 in relation to additional duties undertaken during the reconstitution of the Board.
6 Following the 2012 AGM, at which he did not stand for re-election, Alan Steins service agreement with the Company terminated.
The payments received in 2012 by Alan Stein therefore, included: his base salary and pension for his period of employment through to 19 June 2012 of US$490,000: Payment in lieu of notice, to which he was entitled under the terms of his contract on termination of his employment, equal in value to 12 months base salary plus accrued leave including long service payments to the value of US$992,000: Annual bonus payments of US$920,077 relating to performance in the 2011 financial year and US$272,255 relating to performance in the 2010 financial year where the bonus payments were spread over four quarterly instalments commencing in July 2011 and concluding in April 2012.
Alan Stein did not receive any bonus payments for performance in 2012.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 69 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED BASIC SALARY The performance condition that applied to the LTIP As reported in last years Directors Remuneration awards granted to the executive directors in 2012, was Report, the Committee approved an increase of 5% to as per the description for the 2013 award on page 62. the base salaries of executive directors for 2012.
This The sole difference between the 2012 LTIP awards increase, which took into account personal performance, and those for 2013 was the inclusion of Petroceltic Company performance, changes in responsibilities and International plc in place of Melrose Resources plc in competitive market practices, reected the general the TSR comparator group following their merger.
increases made to other members of the senior DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES executive team and was in line with the cost of Ordinary Shareholdings living index.
The beneficial interests of the Directors and relevant DIRECTORS PENSION ARRANGEMENTS persons in the ordinary shares of the Company as at Nick Cooper and Jonathan Taylor do not participate in a 31 December 2012 are: Group pension scheme.
The Company contributes the greater of the statutory minimum or 11% of basic salary As at As at 1 January 31 December into their personal pension arrangements.
Where the Director 2012 Acquisitions Disposals 2012 level of contribution is higher than that which is eligible for tax relief, the excess can be converted into Nicholas 108,000 0 0 108,000 1 additional salary.
Smith ANNUAL BONUS PLAN Nick 120,000 572 0 120,572 2 For 2012, the Committee set KPI targets for the Cooper executive directors in respect of Health, Safety and Jonathan 6,836,320 0 0 6,836,320 Environmental performance including and reviewing 3 Taylor HSE incidents during the period : Leadership performance including succession planning : Ronald 12,000 0 0 12,000 4 an increase in Reserves and Resources to be Blakely independently veried : Finance including John 172,000 51,960 0 223,960 maintenance of ongoing funding requirements : 5 Lander and Portfolio Management new business including drilling campaigns and asset management.
Following Dennis 104,000 0 0 104,000 consideration of each executive directors performance 6 McShane during the year, the Committee recommended, and the Lyndon 24,000 0 0 24,000 Board approved, bonus payments equivalent to 134% Powell of basic salary being 89.33% of the maximum bonus payable.
As a result, Nick Cooper and Jonathan Taylor 1 Nicholas Smith holds a beneficial interest in 108,000 ordinary shares.
received bonus payments of 527,625 and 492,450 The legal interest is held by Chase Nominees Limited.
2 Nick Cooper and members of his family hold a beneficial interest in 120,572 ordinary shares.
The legal interests are held by Goldman Sachs International and James Capel Nominees Limited.
LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 3 Includes 101,080 ordinary shares Jonathan Taylor holds on trust for The award levels granted to the executive directors his children.
in the year under review calculated based on the 4 Ronald Blakely and members of his family hold a beneficial interest in 12,000 ordinary shares.
The legal interest is held by three month average share price prior to the date of Hanover Nominees.
grant were: 5 John Lander and members of his family hold a beneficial interest in 223,960 ordinary shares.
The legal interest is held by WB Chief Executive Officer: 300% of salary: and Nominees Ltd. 6 Dennis McShane holds a beneficial interest in 104,000 ordinary Executive director & founder Jonathan Taylor : 200% shares.
The legal interest is held by Greenwood Nominees Limited.
There were no changes to the holdings disclosed above The 300% of salary LTIP award to the Chief Executive between 31 December 2012 and 4 March 2013 being the Officer was in excess of the normal 200% of salary LTIP date of this report.
limit and was granted in light of the Companys exceptional performance since Nick Coopers appointment e. g. encompassing completion of an equity placing of 30.5 million new ordinary shares, continued drilling successes etc..
This award was granted in tandem with the Chief Executive Officers exceptional LTIP award described on page 63, with both awards considered to align the individuals interests with those of Ophirs founders and to reect the additional responsibilities applying to the Chief Executive Officer following the 2012 Board restructuring.
As previously noted, the exceptional award received shareholder approval with 81.21% of the shareholders voting at last years AGM supporting the arrangement.
2 Details of the performance condition for the 2012 LTIP award are set out on page 62.
3 The performance condition for the LTIP awards granted on 26 May 2011, 1 June 2011 with the exception to that detailed in 1 above and Alan Steins award on 13 April 2012 are identical to that of the 2012 LTIP award other than in respect of some constituents of the TSR comparator group.
4 Details of the performance condition for the Chief Executive Officers special LTIP award are set out on page 63.
5 As disclosed in last years remuneration report, Alan Stein received an award in 2012 to reflect the difference between the assumed price at the time of grant prior to the IPO on 26 May 2011 and the actual share price on grant of 2.50 per share.
This award topped up his 2011 annual grant and similar treatment was applied to all other LTIP participants, who received their equivalent awards in November 2011 with all top-up awards subject to the same performance period and criteria.
In light of the announcement of his departure from the Company, Alan Stein did not receive a normal annual LTIP grant in 2012.
Pursuant to the rules of the LTIP, the Remuneration Committee determined Mr Stein to be a good leaver in respect of his outstanding LTIP awards.
As a result his awards became eligible to vest in full, subject to the application of performance targets, in line with the discretion afforded to the Committee under the LTIP rules.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 71 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 6 Share ownership guidelines Details of the guidelines adopted by the Committee are set out on page 63.
Taking into account the information set out on page 70, the holdings of the executive directors in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31December 2012 are shown in the table below: Basic Salary % at 31 December Ordinary salary Director 2012 Shares held Nick Cooper 393,750 120,572 153% Jonathan 367,500 6,836,320 over 300% Taylor Mid-market share prices The Companys mid-market share price at the close of business on 31 December 2012 was 504.5 pence.
The highest and lowest mid-market share prices during the year ended 31 December 2012 were 641.0 pence and 291.5 pence respectively.
No share based awards held by executive directors vested, were exercised or lapsed during the year.
By Order of the Board JOHN LANDER Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 4 March 2013 WWW.
