CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report 43 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 The Remuneration Committee the Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board the remuneration packages for Executive Directors and the bonus and share incentive strategy for the Groups executive management.
The Board as a whole is responsible for determining the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman.
The role of the Committee includes: U considering and determining the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and executive management: U within this agreed policy, considering and determining the total remuneration packages of each Executive Director of the Company: U approving the design and performance targets for all performance-related plans as well as the overall total annual payments made under such plans: U reviewing and noting remuneration trends across the Group: and U determining the policy for pension arrangements, service agreements and termination payments to Executive Directors and the executive management.
The Committee comprises all the Independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board.
The Chairman of the Board, Nigel Keen, who fullled the independence criteria at the time of his appointment as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Governance Code, is Chairman of the Committee.
Nigel Keen was Chairman of the Committee at the time the Company listed on the FTSE Small Cap Index.
As a SmallCap company this appointment recognised his significant experience of the role at the Company and elsewhere.
Now that the Company is listed on the FTSE 250 index, the Board is looking to recruit a new NonExecutive Director with the appropriate mix of skills to take over the Chair of the Committee.
The Committee normally meets at least four times a year and the members of the Committee are appointed by the Board.
The Chief Executive, the HR Director and other executives are invited to attend Committee meetings as deemed appropriate.
For example the Chief Executive is able to make a significant contribution when considering the performance of other Executive Directors and on the significant Group-wide changes in salary structure and terms and conditions affecting other employees at senior executive level.
However, no Executive Director is present when the Committee is determining his or her remuneration.
The Committee acts within its agreed written terms of reference which are published on the companys website www.
com investors and complies with the provisions of the Governance Code regarding best practice on the design of performance-related remuneration.
The performance of the Committee is reviewed at least once a year as part of the wider Board evaluation process.
During the year, the Committee: U reviewed the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors: U reviewed long term incentive plans: U reviewed and agreed the performance targets for the 2011 12 bonus and assessed the extent to which the performance conditions for the 2010 11 bonus were achieved: U reviewed the performance conditions applying to the long term incentive awards: U assessed the achievement of the performance conditions on outstanding long term incentive awards: U monitored the application of the Companys shareholding guideline: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued 44 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 U reviewed the overall salary increase pool, bonus payments and pay packages for the Group as a whole and received an update on any significant Group-wide changes in senior employees salaries and terms and conditions: and U carried out its annual evaluation of the Committee as part of the governance activities undertaken by the Board.
The Committee takes independent advice from New Bridge Street an Aon Hewitt company.
Aon Hewitt provided no other services to the Company during the year.
The Committee also sought advice from Laytons, the Companys lawyer.
The report is divided into two parts: U Part A: which is not subject to audit and explains the Companys current remuneration policy for Executive Directors and the executive management: and U Part B: which is audited and shows how the remuneration policy has been applied to Executive Directors for the year under review and contains tables detailing the Executive Directors emoluments for the year ended 31 March 2012, their accrued pensions and their interests under the Companys long-term incentive arrangements.
PART A Remuneration policy The Company has an incentive-driven remuneration policy that seeks to reward executives fairly and responsibly based on Group performance and their individual contribution.
Overall the remuneration package aims to be appropriate to attract, motivate and retain high calibre executives.
The remuneration policy promotes the delivery of the Groups strategy and seeks to align the interests of Directors and shareholders.
The Committee regularly reviews the link between performance and strategy and believes that measuring the success of the strategy through sustained and significant earnings growth and the delivery of superior long-term shareholder returns ensures a strong performance pay related culture.
When appropriate, the Chairman has contact with principal shareholders regarding remuneration policy.
The Committee considers carefully the motivational effects of the incentive structure in order to ensure that it is effective and does not have any unintentionally negative impact on matters such as governance, environmental or social issues.
More generally, the Committee ensures that the overall remuneration policy does not encourage inappropriate operational risk.
The Committee reviews the Executive Directors packages annually taking account of the level of remuneration paid to comparable positions in similar companies within the industry, as well as pay and conditions throughout the remainder of the group.
Comparative pay data is used carefully recognising the potential for an upward ratchet in remuneration caused by over reliance on such data.
The policy for Executive Director remuneration can be summarised as follows: Fixed remuneration Performance-related remuneration Base salary Benets Pensions Annual bonus Long-term incentives E. g. car benefit, life Dened contribution Measured over 1 year Measured over 3 years & health insurance Corporate financial Executive Share Option measures and specic Scheme ESOS based strategic objectives on EPS performance Max 100% of salary Senior Executive for CEO & FD Long-Term Incentive Scheme SELTIS based Max 75% of salary on TSR performance for Group Business Development Director Shareholding guideline of 100% of base salary for Executive Directors to be built up by retaining shares on exercise of options under the ESOS and SELTIS granted from 2007 equal to a minimum of 50% of the net gain CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 45 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Company performance In 2011, the Company successfully completed its five year plan to double the size of its business and improve net margins by ten percentage points through organic growth.
Over the last three years the share price has risen from 1.10 on 31 March 2009 to 12.16 on 31 March 2012.
Over the same period, adjusted profit before income tax has risen from 11.1m to 42.0m.
The Company is now one year into its next phase of growth and delivering on its three year plan, the 14 Cubed Plan.
This is an ambitious plan, the objective of which is to target an average compound annual revenue growth rate of 14% per year and to have a net return on sales of at least 14% by 2014.
Progress to date is in line with meeting these objectives.
The Group has delivered an excellent result in the year to 31 March 2012 driven by new product introductions and a market environment which has remained robust for its products.
Revenue has grown by 28.6% to 337.3 million 2011: 262.3 million : excluding acquisitions, organic growth was 15.1% while adjusted profit before tax grew by 60.3% to 42.0 million 2011: 26.2 million.
Adjusted operating margin also continued to increase, rising to 12.5% from 10.7% in the prior year in line with the 14 Cubed Plan.
The proposed dividend for 2011 12 is 11.1% higher than the previous year.
The Groups broad spread of geographies and technologies and strong pipeline of new products should help it to remain resilient in the event of a sustained global economic downturn.
The Group completed three acquisitions in the year ended 31 March 2012 and it is continuing its active pursuit of acquisitions that have the potential to enhance shareholder value and add to its range of technical capabilities.
At the same time continued investment in the new product pipeline is aimed towards driving organic growth.
Trading remains strong and the Board remains confident in the continued growth prospects of Oxford Instruments and the Groups ability to deliver sustained shareholder value.
In September 2011, the Group was admitted to the FTSE 250 index and in March 2012 it won the prestigious PLC award for best company in 2011.
Jonathan Flint and his team have achieved tremendous results and the Committee is concerned to ensure that the remuneration policy continues to support and reect the business strategy to drive continued growth and returns for the Groups shareholders.
Reasons for the review of Executives remuneration packages The 14 Cubed Plan reects a step change in the size and complexity of the Group as well as the roles of the Executives.
The Committee is keen, given this and the prolonged period of strong performance of the Group, to ensure that the Executives remuneration packages remain appropriate.
The Committee has, therefore, carried out a review of the remuneration packages of the Executive team and has noted that the Executives base salaries and the resulting total compensation are below mid-market levels.
Given the importance of the base salary level in determining the overall level and balance of the package, the Committee has determined that base salaries should be increased.
The Committee is very conscious of the need to pay no more than is necessary to recruit and retain key executives particularly in the current climate.
It is also accepted that simply moving into the FTSE 250 does not in itself merit increases in remuneration.
However the Committee believes that: U due to the outstanding performance of the individual Executives and of the business: U because of the increasingly demanding roles that the Executives hold in an increasingly complex business.
For instance its international reach continues to make growing demands on the Executives: its Chinese business is the fastest growing in the Group and it has a new ofce in India: a focused plan of acquisitions continues to be pursued: its technology capability continues to be expanded and overall the business is more than twice the size it was when the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director joined the Group: and U to ensure retention of the Executives by the business: the Executive Directors remuneration packages need to be substantially enhanced.
Base salary The Committee reviews salaries annually.
When setting Executive Directors salaries, the Committee takes account of the Directors experience, performance and responsibilities as well as the performance of the Company, the complexity of the role within the Group for which the Executive Directors are responsible and salary increases for employees generally.
It also has regard to market data for comparable positions in similar companies within the industry.
The Committee reviews external benchmarking data periodically, and this information is used to assist in decision making.
However the Committee is mindful that benchmark data is only one factor to consider when reviewing board remuneration packages.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued 46 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 The Committee considers that the Chief Executives and Group Finance Directors positioning in terms of salary and total pay is below market.
With this in mind, with effect from 1 July 2012 the Executive Directors salaries will be increased as set out below.
Salary prior to Salary wef 1 July 2012 1 July 2012 Percentage Name 000 000 increase Jonathan Flint 350 420 20.0% Kevin Boyd 242 283 16.9% Charles Holroyd 200 210 5.0% Furthermore, it is intended that, for the year commencing 1 July 2013, Jonathan Flints salary will be increased to 450,000 an increase of 7.1% on the prior year and Kevin Boyds salary will be increased to 300,000 an increase of 6% on the prior year.
These further increases are predicated on continuing strong performance of the business.
Following this increase in base salary the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director will have a total target remuneration of around the median of a benchmark group of companies similar to Oxford Instruments and of a benchmark group comprising the bottom half of the FTSE 250.
The Committee considers that these increases in the Executive Directors salaries are merited in recognition of the increasingly demanding roles they have in the business and the complexity of the Group as well as their personal contribution to its success.
The Committee has also sought the view of shareholders holding more than 50% of the issued share capital of the Company to the increases it proposes awarding.
The Committee has taken into account all the views expressed from those consulted in arriving at the increases in salary levels and their subsequent evolution in the light of the performance of the Company.
Senior Management and Staff salaries Senior Management salaries for the salary year starting 1 July 2012 are being reviewed dependent on individual performance within a range of 4% to 15% per annum and with annualised increases across the UK expected to average 4.5%.
In addition, under a Gainshare bonus plan, staff not eligible under management or other bonus plan will receive a payment of up to 2% of salary provided certain Company performance criteria are met.
Annual Bonus Executive Directors and other employee groups are eligible to participate in a non-pensionable discretionary annual bonus.
The Committee sets targets for Executive Directors and the executive management which are primarily based on the achievement of challenging corporate financial targets, with the balance payable for meeting specic strategic objectives.
For the year ended 31 March 2012, the bonus awarded was based against the following metrics: organic sales, profit, cash generation and other strategic objectives.
The level of payment for the year took account of the Companys very strong performance with organic sales up 15.1%, adjusted profit before income tax up 60.3% and net cash position of 35.1m.
The on-target and maximum bonus potentials for the Executive Directors as well as the amount actually payable for the year ended 31 March 2012 are set out below.
Actual bonus On-target Maximum payable for bonus bonus 2011 12 % of salary % of salary % of salary Jonathan Flint 75% 100% 100% Kevin Boyd 75% 100% 100% Charles Holroyd 55% 75% 75% Annual Bonus plan for 2012 13 The target and potential maximum bonus potential of the Executive Directors will be unchanged for the financial year to 31 March 2013.
The performance metrics will be based on organic sales, profit, cash generation and other strategic objectives.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 47 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Long-Term Incentive Schemes The Company operates two discretionary plans to incentivise Executive Directors and employees: U the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS : and U the Senior Executive Long-Term Incentive Scheme SELTIS.
Under the ESOS executives are granted options to purchase shares at an exercise price based on the prevailing share price on the date of grant.
Options may be exercised between three years and ten years from the date of grant subject to the achievement of performance conditions measured over three years.
At the discretion of the Committee, the gain made on an unapproved option may be settled in the form of issuing fully paid up shares equivalent to the gain.
Under the SELTIS executives are granted options to purchase shares at zero cost.
Options may be exercised between three and seven years from the date of grant under the SELTIS and are subject to the achievement of performance conditions measured over three years.
As set out below, the ESOS performance condition provides a focus on share price growth and measures performance using adjusted earnings per share.
The SELTIS performance condition concentrates on stock market out-performance by measuring Total Shareholder Return relative to a comparator group of companies.
The Committee considers that the combination of these different plans and measures provides a good focus on the outcomes of the Company strategy together with sustainable improvements in long-term profitability.
The Committee considers that weighting the long-term incentive policy towards the ESOS provides strong ongoing alignment with shareholder interests.
The performance conditions applying to the 2011 ESOS and SELTIS awards are set out on page 51.
The Committee will set the performance conditions for the 2012 awards which are normally granted in December at that time taking account of the Companys internal financial planning, market forecasts and the business environment.
Shareholding guidelines The Committee, in 2007, established shareholding guidelines which encourage the Executive Directors to build up a shareholding equivalent in value to 100% of basic salary.
Until the guideline is met in full whenever ESOS or SELTIS options are exercised Executive Directors are expected to retain or purchase shares equivalent to the value of 50% of the net amount realised from exercise of the options after allowing for tax payable.
As at 31 March 2012, Jonathan Flint, Kevin Boyd and Charles Holroyd held shares in the Company valued at 552%, 335% and 378% of salary respectively.
They each currently hold shares with a value in excess of 100% of basic salary and are thus complying with the current guidelines.
All-Employee Share Schemes Up until 1 April 2008, the Company granted options under a SAYE scheme.
The SAYE scheme is administered in accordance with Inland Revenue guidelines and there are no performance conditions attached to exercise.
Currently there remain no options exerciseable under this scheme.
The SAYE scheme has been replaced by a Share Incentive Plan SIP which since 1 April 2008 has been open to all UK permanent staff employed for at least six months.
The Executive Directors all participate in the SIP to the maximum extent permitted by HMRC.
The Company offers a 1:5 match for partnership shares purchased by employees.
During the year, each of the Executive Directors were awarded 33 matching shares.
Dilution limits The ESOS, SELTIS and SAYE share option schemes provide that overall dilution through the issuance of new shares for employee share schemes should not exceed an amount equivalent to 10% of the Companys issued share capital over a 10 year period.
Awards made under the SELTIS scheme prior to 2009 and shares required by the SIP are satisfied by market purchased shares.
The Committee monitors the position prior to the making of any award under these share option schemes to ensure that the Company remains within this limit.
As at the date of this Report, the Companys headroom position remains within the 10% limit.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued 48 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Contracts Details of the service contracts of the Executive Directors are as follows: Contract Notice Unexpired date period term of contract Jonathan Flint 21 February 2005 12 months Rolling contract Kevin Boyd 9 May 2006 12 months Rolling contract Charles Holroyd 22 November 2005 12 months Rolling contract The service contract of each Executive Director may be terminated on 12 months notice in writing by either side, in accordance with current market practice, with the Company having a right to pay 12 months salary in lieu of notice if it so determines.
The Committees policy on early termination is to provide compensation which reects the Companys contractual obligations which do not include entitlement to bonus after the date of notication of termination, whilst recognising the principle of mitigation of losses.
Outside appointments The Board allows Executive Directors to accept appropriate outside commercial non-executive appointments provided the aggregate commitment is compatible with their duties as Executive Directors.
The Executive Director concerned may retain fees paid for these services, which will be subject to approval by the Board.
Jonathan Flint holds positions as a member of the Council of the Institute of Physics and a member of the advisory board of the ISIS neutron spellation instrument.
During the year he received fees of 510 from ISIS 2011: 850.
Kevin Boyd is a Non-Executive Director of Guidance Ltd. During the year he received fees of 18,300 2011: 16,875.
Non-Executive Directors Under an arrangement between the Company and Imperialise Limited, Nigel Keen is retained to act as Chairman of the Company and Chairman of the Trustee to the Oxford Instruments Pension Scheme and he must account to Imperialise Limited for his services.
His current term of appointment commenced on 25 February 2011 and is for three years.
This arrangement can be terminated by either party at any time by the giving of 6 months notice.
Imperialise Limited is paid a sum equivalent to the employers national insurance contributions on these fees as it is responsible for the cost of national insurance on payments to Nigel Keen, whereas national insurance contributions in respect of the other Non-Executive Directors are made direct to the UK Inland Revenue.
Nigel Keens fees for acting as Chairman to the Trustee of the Oxford Instruments Pension Scheme are also paid to Imperialise Limited.
The Company also paid to Imperialise Limited a sum equivalent to the employers national insurance contribution on these fees.
For the year to 31 March 2012, Nigel Keens fees as Chairman were 127,000 2011: 102,475 and as Chairman to the Trustee were 25,000 2011: 20,458 for his services for which he must account to Imperialise Limited.
In addition, Imperialise Limited has been paid a sum equivalent to the national insurance on both these fees of 21,076.
After careful consideration by the Committee, it was decided that fees payable for Nigel Keen as Chairman to the Board should be uplifted.
In making this decision, it took into account the strong performance of both the Chairman and the Group, the increasingly complex business and the increasing demands that this brings to the role of chairman, and the promotion of the Company to the FTSE 250.
It also reviewed benchmark data provided by the Committees advisor which showed that the Chairmans fee was below median of the comparator groups.
It was agreed therefore that the Chairmans fees be increased to 161,000 with effect from 1 April 2012.
Nigel Keen did not take part in these meetings.
Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts but are appointed for an initial period of three years with subsequent reviews.
They do not have a contract of employment and their appointment can be terminated without notice.
Date of appointment Notice period Nigel Keen 25 February 2011 6 months Mike Brady 1 August 2010 None Mike Hughes 3 July 2010 None Jock Lennox 1 April 2009 None Bernard Taylor 13 November 2011 None CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 49 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Non-Executive Directors receive xed fees, agreed by the Board but not the Non-Executive Directors after reference to similar roles in an appropriate comparator group of companies, and reimbursement of expenses incurred in attending Board and other meetings.
It is the Boards policy for the Non-Executive Directors to be paid a level of fee that reects the time commitment and responsibilities of the role and is sufficient to attract individuals with appropriate knowledge and experience.
During the year, the Non-Executive Directors received a base fee of 30,000 and Mike Brady, Mike Hughes and Jock Lennox received an additional fee of 5,000 per annum for acting as Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee respectively.
After reviewing remuneration data of comparative companies, it has been agreed that from 1 April 2012, the base fee is to be increased to 40,000 per annum.
This is the first increase in Non-Executive Director fees since October 2008.
The Non-Executive Directors did not take part in these meetings.
PART B: THE FINANCIAL INFORMATION IN THIS PART OF THE REPORT HAS BEEN AUDITED Executive Directors Emoluments The remuneration paid to the Executive Directors during the year under review is summarised in the table below: Total Total Pension Annual remuneration remuneration contribution 3 1 Salary Benets bonus 2012 2011 2012 000 000 000 000 000 000 2 Jonathan Flint 346 17 350 713 671 48 Kevin Boyd 239 14 242 495 467 33 Charles Holroyd 198 10 150 358 333 28 Total 783 41 742 1,566 1,471 109 1 Benets comprise provision of a car or car allowance and health insurance.
In 2010, the Company and Jonathan Flint purchased a house in joint ownership with the Company contributing 300,000.
During the year Jonathan Flint bought a further proportion of the house by paying 99,900 to the Company.
This proportion was acquired based on the original purchase price.
An independent valuation established that the price paid by Jonathan Flint was in excess of the market value of the house at the time of payment.
Jonathan Flint lives in the house and paid a full commercial rent amounting to 8,147 during the financial year for use of the Company asset.
Under the terms of a salary sacrifice arrangement, UK employees are able to elect to cease making personal contributions into relevant pension schemes.
Each employees salary is reduced by the amount of their pension contributions and the Company pays the same amount directly to the pension schemes.
Accordingly, the annual salaries of Jonathan Flint, Kevin Boyd and Charles Holroyd were reduced to 344,297, 222,033 and 181,480 respectively.
For reasons of clarity, the salaries shown in the table above for these Directors are the amount they would have been paid had they not made such salary sacrifices.
These notional base salaries are used to calculate salary linked remuneration such as bonus and some benets.
Remuneration of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors: Remuneration paid to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors during the year under review are set out below.
They receive no other benets.
2012 2011 1 Nigel Keen, Chairman 145 116 Mike Brady 35 35 Mike Hughes 35 35 Jock Lennox 35 35 Bernard Taylor 30 30 Total 280 251 1 Nigel Keens fees above include a payment of 17,526 to Imperialise Limited in respect of employers national insurance contributions.
In addition, he received fees of 25,000 for his services as Chairman to the Trustee of the Oxford Instruments Pension Scheme together with a payment of 3,450 to Imperialise Limited in respect of employers national insurance contributions.
The gain yielded on the exercise of options during the year for Jonathan Flint, Kevin Boyd and Charles Holroyd was 4,138,556, 1,946,642 and 1,946,642 respectively.
2 Since the year end, Jonathan Flint has married.
His wife, an employee of the Company, holds ESOS options over 64,000 shares with exercise prices ranging from 203.5p to 990p.
The market price of the shares at 31 March 2012 was 1215p 2011: 700p and the range during the year was 703p1262p 2011: 256p736p.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 51 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Performance conditions outstanding for awards are described below all other awards in the table above have achieved the relevant performance conditions that had been set : Date of award ESOS SELTIS TSR v FTSE Small Cap Index excluding EPS growth 5% p. a.
33.3% vesting to certain sectors median 33.3% vesting December 2009 10% p. a.
100% vesting to upper quartile 100% vesting TSR v FTSE Small Cap Index excluding EPS growth 5% p. a.
33.3% vesting to certain sectors median 33.3% vesting January 2011 10% p. a.
100% vesting to upper quartile 100% vesting TSR v FTSE 250 Index excluding Financial 3 EPS growth CPI 5% p. a.
33.3% vesting companies median 33.3% vesting December 2011 to 10% p. a.
100% vesting to upper quartile 100% vesting For employees who are not Executive Directors, options become exercisable in full for achieving the threshold level.
Sectors excluded Food & Drug Retailers, General Retailers, Banks, Non-life Insurance, Life Insurance, Real Estate, General Financial, Equity Investment Instruments and Non-equity Investment Instruments Sectors.
3 Sectors excluded Banks, Equity Investment Instruments, Finance Services, Life Insurance, Nonlife Insurance, Real Estate Investment Trusts and Real Estate Investment Services.
Achievement of performance conditions The calculation of the TSR performance conditions were independently measured by Thomson Reuters for options granted prior to 2008 and are measured by New Bridge Street for options granted thereafter.
EPS performance conditions are measured using the audited accounts of the Company.
All performance conditions are then veried by the Committee.
During the year, the 2008 ESOS and SELTIS grants vested as to 100% because of the Companys strong EPS and relative TSR performance.
Pension plans For UK employees and Executive Directors, the Company operates the Oxford Instruments Stakeholder Plan a dened contribution scheme.
It also operates the Oxford Instruments Dened benefit Pension Scheme but this has been closed to new employees since April 2001 and closed to new accruals at the end of July 2010.
Oxford Instruments dened benefit pension scheme For UK-based Executive Directors and employees employed prior to April 2001, a contributory pension, depending on length of service, of up to two thirds of pensionable salary is provided on retirement through the Oxford Instruments dened benefit pension scheme Dened benefit Scheme.
This was a contracted-out contributory pension scheme and it provides benets based on earnings at or near retirement and is funded through a separate trust.
Early retirement is possible on a reduced pension from age 55 with the consent of the Company.
Pensions in payment are guaranteed to increase by a level of ination up to a maximum of 3% per year on pension earned before 1 April 1997 and a maximum of 5% per year thereafter, subject to any applicable statutory requirements.
In the case of death before retirement a spouses pension of one half of the members pension at death is payable and a refund of the members contributions.
This Scheme was closed to future accrual on 31 July 2010.
Oxford Instruments Stakeholder Plan Employees and Executive Directors are offered membership of the Oxford Instruments Stakeholder Plan Stakeholder Plan.
The Company contribution rate and employee contribution rate varies between grades and whether the individual had previously been in the Dened benefit Scheme.
The Company contribution ranges between 4% and 14% of base salary.
Executive Director pension arrangements Under the terms of their service contracts Executive Directors can ask the Company to contribute to a pension plan of their own choice.
The Company contributes a maximum of 14% of base salary if matched by a contribution of 10% by the director or, if lower, a contribution by the director which brings the total pension contribution to 50,000.
Only base salary is pensionable and contributions are not included in the calculation of bonus and share award entitlements.
Where the Companys pension contribution exceeds 50,000 the maximum pension contribution allowable per tax year a balancing payment is paid by the Company to the director which will be taxed as income.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued 52 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 During the year, the Company contributed 48,422 2011: 45,167 into a personal dened contribution pension plan in respect of Jonathan Flint and 33,407 2011: 31,450 into a personal dened contribution plan in respect of Kevin Boyd.
In respect of Charles Holroyd, the company contributed 27,667 into the Stakeholder Plan 2011: 17,080 into the Stakeholder Plan together with 5,232 into the Dened benefit Scheme.
Charles Holroyd is a deferred member of the Dened benefit Scheme and is no longer accruing benets in the Scheme.
In accordance with the rules of the Scheme his deferred benets are subject to increases in line with statutory revaluation.
The transfer value of his accrued benets at 31 March 2012 was 506,000 2011: 388,000.
Death in service life cover There is death in service life cover for all employees in the UK, including the Executive Directors, of three times basic salary.
This is an insured scheme provided through the Oxford Instruments Life Assurance Scheme.
All employees have the option to purchase an additional level of cover of up to a further three times basic salary.
Performance graph unaudited The graph below shows for the five years ended 31 March 2012 the Total Shareholder Return TSR on a holding of the Companys ordinary shares compared with a hypothetical holding of shares made up of shares of the same kind and number as those by reference to which the FTSE 250, FTSE Techmark and FTSE Electronic and Electrical Equipment indices are calculated.
These indices have been chosen as they are considered to be the most appropriate comparator groups for the Company.
TSR has been calculated by reference to the relevant share price for each constituent company assuming dividends are reinvested.
This report was adopted by the Committee at a meeting on 7 June 2012 and has been approved subsequently by the Board for submission to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 11 September 2012.
Total Shareholder Return Source: Thomson Reuters 600 Oxford Instruments plc FTSE Techmark 550 FTSE E&EE FTSE 250 500 450 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 31 March 2007 31 March 2008 31 March 2009 31 March 2010 31 March 2011 31 March 2012 This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2012, of 100 invested in Oxford Instruments plc on 31 March 2007 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE Techmark All Share Index, the FTSE All Share Electronic and Electrical Equipment Index or the FTSE 250 Index over the same period.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
Nigel Keen Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 12 June 2012 Value
