REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT The companys comparator group for the purposes of Introduction benchmarking comparative total shareholder return TSR This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule performance under the PayPoint Long-Term Incentive Plan the 8 to the Accounting Regulations under the Companies Act LTIP for awards granted to the end of the year under review 2006.
The report also meets the relevant requirements of the was based on the FTSE 250 constituents excluding investment Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes trusts at the date of the awards.
how the board has applied the principles relating to directors remuneration in the UK Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
As required by the Act, a resolution to approve the report Basic salary will be proposed at the annual general meeting of the company The remuneration committees policy is to set base salaries at at which the financial statements will be approved.
When determining the salary of the executive directors, the remuneration The Act requires the auditor to report to the companys committee takes into consideration the levels of base salary for members on certain parts of the directors remuneration report similar positions with comparable status, responsibility and skills and to state whether, in its opinion, those parts of the report in organisations of broadly similar size and complexity.
These have been properly prepared in accordance with the Accounting factors are considered in parallel with the following: Regulations.
The report has, therefore, been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
the performance of the individual executive director: the individual executive directors experience and responsibilities: and Unaudited information pay and conditions throughout the company.
Remuneration committee Annual performance-related bonus The remuneration committee is responsible for developing policy The annual bonus plan for the year ended 25 March 2012 on remuneration for executive directors and senior management provided for a maximum cash bonus of 100% of salary.
and for determining specic remuneration packages for each Executive directors were also eligible to participate in the of the executive directors.
The committee members are all PayPoint plc Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSB.
Andrew Robb is Chairman of the are subject to a 25% compulsory and maximum further 25% committee, with Eric Anstee, Stephen Rowley and Nick Wiles voluntary deferral.
The deferred bonus will be utilised for the acting as committee members.
acquisition of shares Bonus Shares, with the opportunity of an additional award of shares Matching Shares of an equivalent The remuneration committee received wholly independent value to the gross bonus deferred i. e. up to 50% of salary, advice on executive compensation and incentives from Kepler which equates to a maximum bonus potential of 150% of salary.
No other services were provided to the company by Kepler Associates during the year.
The The companys bonus plan for the year ended 25 March 2012 remuneration committee is formally constituted with written was based on the achievement of an economic profit operating terms of reference which set out the full remit of the committee.
profit after tax and a charge for capital employed based on the A copy of the terms of reference is available to shareholders companys cost of capital target.
Based upon the actual results by writing to the Company Secretary, whose contact details for the year, 88.7% of the maximum bonus is payable.
The terms of reference are also available on the companys website at www.
The remuneration committee believes that the use of economic The remuneration committee met twice during the year and profit as the measure of performance for the annual bonus plan all members were in attendance except Eric Anstee who was will encourage a focus on both profit and capital efficiency, absent from one meeting.
which are key to driving forward shareholder value and which are implicit in the calculation of economic profit.
Remuneration policy overview The committee has adopted a remuneration policy so that total The remuneration committee reviews and agrees targets at levels of compensation encourage and reward high performance the beginning of each financial year and may subsequently and attract and retain individuals of the right calibre to ensure adjust those targets as appropriate for investments and start up the company meets its objectives.
It is the opinion of the costs that are approved after the targets have been set.
Bonus remuneration committee that shareholders interests are best payments are not pensionable.
served by focusing a greater proportion of total potential remuneration on performance-related compensation.
Short and long-term incentives are structured so as to align directors interests with those of shareholders by rewarding them for enhancing shareholder value.
It should be noted that the real value received by the executive directors under the share incentive arrangements will be dependent upon the degree to which the associated performance conditions have been satisfied at the end of the three year performance period and the share price of the company at this time.
This ensures that substantial rewards are only received when value has been created in the business.
PayPoint plc annual report 2012 23 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued The results are set out below: During the year, Dominic Taylor received an LTIP award equivalent to 120% of salary and George Earle and Tim WatkinRees received LTIP awards equivalent to 100% of salary.
Awards 70% 100% made in the period were granted as conditional awards of payment 80% payment shares.
During the year, the fifth tranche of the LTIP awards, threshold payment threshold which were granted in 2008, failed to meet the performance for 95% threshold for 110% conditions, resulting in a nil vesting.
Details of the LTIP awards of plan for plan of plan Actual made to the executive directors during the year are set out on delivery delivery delivery results page 26.
000 000 000 000 Economic The performance conditions for the awards made during the profit 18,590 19,568 21,525 20,415 year under the LTIP are set out in the following table: Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSB Total Shareholder Return TSR LTIP % of shares The current DSB plan was adopted at the 2009 annual general position against comparator group released meeting.
Below median 0% Median 30% Executive Directors are required to defer at least 25% of their cash bonus under the plan.
Deferred awards are eligible for Upper quartile 100% matching shares, which is subject to: There is proportionate vesting between points.
minimum earnings per share growth of RPI 3% p. a. over a In addition to the above comparative TSR performance of three year period: and the company, the remuneration committee will, in any event, the participant still being employed by the company at the satisfy itself that the recorded TSR is a genuine reection of the end of the three year deferral period.
underlying financial performance of the company before the release of any share awards under the LTIP, in accordance with In addition to the 25% mandatory deferral, the executive the ABI guidelines.
directors may elect to defer up to a further 25% of their cash bonus received in respect of the year ending 25 March 2012 Comparative TSR was selected as the performance condition for into company shares.
Any additional deferral will also be LTIP awards by the remuneration committee, as it ensures that eligible for matching shares.
the executives have outperformed their peers in the comparator group over the measurement period in delivering shareholder Details of the awards made under the DSB during the year value, before being entitled to receive any of their awards, are set out on page 27.
If a participant disposes of any of irrespective of general market conditions.
their deferred shares during the three year deferral period, a corresponding proportion of matching shares is forfeited.
Performance measurement The committee also has discretion to increase or decrease The remuneration committee determines whether the award sizes under the annual bonus and deferred plan, taking performance conditions for share awards are satisfied.
Where into account the appropriate level of total compensation of the performance requirements are based on earnings per executives of the company.
Senior managers of the company share, the remuneration committee will use the principles are also able to participate in the DSB and receive matching behind the audited gures disclosed in the companys financial awards based on tailored performance conditions.
statements and may take advice from independent advisers as to whether any adjustments are required to ensure consistency No matching shares were released in the current year.
in accordance with the terms of the performance conditions.
Where used as a performance measure, TSR shall be calculated Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP by the remuneration committees independent advisers.
The current LTIP plan was adopted at the 2009 annual general Performance conditions under the LTIP and DSB are not subject meeting to replace the previous plan that expired in to re-testing.
Executive directors and senior managers are eligible to participate in the LTIP.
Under the current rules, the maximum annual award that can be made to an individual is 150% of salary.
In exceptional circumstances, this limit may be exceeded but grant levels will be subject to acceptable market practice and remain below a maximum approved by the remuneration committee.
There is no present intention to exceed the stated maximum of 150% of salary.
Eligible executives are awarded rights to a maximum number of shares at the beginning of a three year period, a proportion of which they will be entitled to acquire at the end of that period depending on the extent to which if at all the performance conditions set by the remuneration committee at the time of the allocation is made are satisfied.
24 PayPoint plc annual report 2012 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued There are no special provisions in service contracts relating to Total Shareholder Return TSR cessation of employment or change of control.
The policy performance graph on termination is that the company does not make payments d beyond its contractual obligations and executive directors will be expected to mitigate their loss.
In addition, the remuneration committee ensures that there are no unjustified payments for failure.
Non-executive directors The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the board based upon recommendations from the Chairman and Chief Executive or, in the case of the Chairman, based on recommendations from the Senior Independent Director and the Chief Executive and is within the limits set by the articles D D D D D D of association.
Non-executive directors do not participate in WW any bonus plan or share incentive programme operated by the company and are not entitled to pension contributions or other The graph shows the companys performance, measured by TSR, benets provided by the company.
The non-executive directors compared with the companys comparator FTSE 250 excluding do not have service contracts.
They are appointed under letters investment trusts.
of appointment which are subject to a three year term.
Details of the terms of appointment of the non-executive directors are Share Incentive Plan SIP set out in the table below: The SIP was approved by shareholders prior to admission and adopted by the company at admission.
Name Date of appointment Expiry date The boards objective is to give employees the opportunity to: D Morrison 10 August 2004 10 August 2013 D Newlands 10 August 2004 10 August 2013 invest part of their salary in company shares: and build up a shareholding in the company.
A Robb 10 August 2004 10 August 2013 E Anstee 16 September 2008 10 August 2013 The company is currently offering eligible employees, including executive directors and senior managers, the opportunity to S Rowley 16 September 2008 10 August 2013 purchase 1,500 of shares a year out of pre-tax salary and N Wiles 22 October 2009 10 August 2013 provide additional matching shares on a one matching share for every share purchased basis.
These matching shares will normally be released three years after they have been awarded Under the companys articles of association, all directors are provided that the associated shares purchased by the employee required to submit themselves for re-election every three years.
have been retained and provided the employee is still employed However, in order to comply with the Code and as reported last by a group company at the time.
year, all directors will be subject to annual re-election.
Details of shares held in the SIP by executive directors are set out Compliance on page 27.
The board has reviewed the groups compliance with the Code on remuneration related matters.
It is the opinion of the board Dilution that the group had complied with all remuneration related In accordance with the ABI guidelines, the company can issue aspects of the Code during the period since admission.
a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital in a rolling ten year period to employees under all its share plans.
The company can only use half of the maximum 5% to satisfy awards under discretionary or executive plans.
Pension The company pays the equivalent of 12% of the executive directors basic salary for personal pension plans.
Salary is the total salary paid during the year and includes payment of a car allowance as part of the contract of employment.
From 1 April 2012, executive directors base salaries were: D. Taylor 409,013: G Earle 310,000: T Watkin-Rees 284,000.
Benets include private medical cover, permanent health insurance and life assurance.
Dened contribution pension scheme, of which two current directors are members.
The remuneration committee has agreed that G Earles pension contributions will be paid direct to him grossed up for tax.
Awards under the LTIP will only vest if the companys comparative TSR performance is equal to or greater than the median level of performance over the three year holding period, at which point 30% of awards will vest, with full vesting occurring for upper quartile performance proportionate vesting between points.
Awards were granted at a price of 5.28 per share the closing price on the preceding dealing day.
Granted as a conditional award of shares.
At the date of lapse, the market value was 5.32 per share.
Awards were granted at a price of 2.80 per share the closing price on the preceding dealing day.
Awards were granted at a price of 4.95 per share.
The Bonus Shares were purchased and the Matching Shares awarded at a share price of 5.30.
Bonus Shares are purchased with the bonus deferred after the deduction of tax.
Matching Shares are awarded based on the value of the gross bonus deferred.
No Matching Shares will be released unless the companys earnings per share growth is 3% p. a. in excess of the Retail Prices Index over the three year holding period.
The Bonus Shares were purchased and the Matching Shares awarded at a share price of 2.88.
The Bonus Shares were purchased and the Matching Shares awarded at a share price of 5.13.
Share Incentive Plan Number of Number of Number Number of Dates of Partnership Matching of Free Dividend Partnership Matching Dividend release of 1 2 3 4 Shares Shares Shares Shares Total Shares Shares Shares Matching Total purchased awarded at awarded at acquired at shares at purchased awarded acquired and Free shares at at 27 March 27 March 27 March 27 March 27 March during the during the during the Dividend 25 March 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 year year year Shares 2012 D Taylor 2,259 2,259 1,562 930 7,010 288 288 296 15.04.11 7,882 15.03.14 G Earle 2,282 2,282 591 5,155 288 288 258 15.04.11 5,989 15.03.14 T Watkin-Rees 2,282 2,282 1,562 932 7,058 288 288 297 15.04.11 7,931 15.03.14 1.
Free Shares are ordinary shares of the company awarded conditionally on 24 September 2004 based on the share price on admission of 1.92.
2. Dividend Shares are ordinary shares of the company purchased with the value of dividends paid in respect of all other shares held in the plan.
Partnership Shares are ordinary shares of the company purchased on a monthly basis during the year at prices from 4.57 to 6.15.
Matching Shares are ordinary shares of the company awarded conditionally on a monthly basis during the year at prices from 4.57 to 6.15 in conjunction with two share purchases.
PayPoint plc annual report 2012 27 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued Directors shareholdings The directors serving during the period who had interests in the shares of the company were as follows: Ordinary shares of 1 3p each 25 March 2012 E Anstee 1,700 1 G Earle 208,590 2 D Morrison 35,000 3 D Newlands 241,599 A Robb 18,000 S Rowley 21,116 D Taylor 1,659,068 4 T Watkin-Rees 726,743 N Wiles 25,000 1.
Includes 208,590 shares held by Mrs C Earle.
Held by Prospect Investment Management Limited in which David Morrison has a 74% beneficial interest.
D Newlands holds a non-beneficial interest in a further 900,000 shares held in various trusts of which he is a trustee 2011: 900,000.
Includes 516,623 shares held by Mrs E Watkin-Rees.
Between the end of the year and 24 May 2012, D Taylor, G Earle and T Watkin-Rees each acquired 39 Partnership and Matching Shares.
The market price of the companys shares on 25 March 2012 was 6.04 27 March 2011: 4.18 per share and the low and high share prices during the year were 4.15 and 6.38 respectively.
This report covers the remuneration of all directors that served during the year.
This report has been approved by the remuneration committee.
Andrew Robb Chairman, remuneration committee 24 May 2012 28 PayPoint plc annual report 2012 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the directors are required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements under IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law, the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the management report, which is incorporated into the directors report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Dominic Taylor Chief Executive 24 May 2012 PayPoint plc annual report 2012 29 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PAYPOINT PLC We have audited the financial statements of PayPoint plc for the Opinion on other matters prescribed by the year ended 25 March 2012 which comprise the consolidated Companies Act 2006 income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive In our opinion: income, the consolidated and parent company balance sheets, the consolidated and parent company cash ow statements, the part of the directors remuneration report to be the consolidated and parent statement of changes in equity and audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the the related notes 1 to 29.
The financial reporting framework Companies Act 2006: and that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and the information given in the directors report for the financial International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by year for which the financial statements are prepared is the European Union.
consistent with the financial statements.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, Matters on which we are required to report in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act by exception 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might We have nothing to report in respect of the following: state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or you if, in our opinion: assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns report, or for the opinions we have formed.
adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Respective responsibilities of directors the financial statements and the part of the directors and auditor remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with As explained more fully in the statement of directors the accounting records and returns: or responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give are not made: or a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express we have not received all the information and explanations we an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with require for our audit.
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review: Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the directors statement, contained within the directors Scope of the audit of the financial statements report, in relation to going concern: An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts the part of the corporate governance statement relating to and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give the groups compliance with the nine provisions of the UK reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or certain elements of the report to the shareholders by the error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting board on directors remuneration.
policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonEdward Hanson ACA Senior Statutory Auditor financial information in the annual report to identify material for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors become aware of any apparent material misstatements or London, UK inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
24 May 2012 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion, the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 25 March 2012 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
