Governance Corporate governance and internal control continued The Audit Committee continued t SFWJFXJOH UIF BDDPVOUJOH QPMJDJFT BOE SFQPSUJOH judgements adopted by the Group in preparing its financial statements.
We were satisfied that they were appropriate Set out on page 80 is the level of fees paid to the Companys to provide a fair assessment of the financial performance auditors rm for audit services, or audit-related services of the Group and non-audit services following the guidance proposed by t BHSFFJOH UIF FYUFSOBM BVEJUPST TUSBUFHZ GPS DBSSZJOH PVU UIF the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards Guidance audit during the past financial year for Auditors.
It is recognised that the level of non-audit fees payable to the Companys auditors rm in the past year was t DBSSZJOH PVU B SFWJFX PG UIF BMG :FBSMZ 3FQPSU XJUI UIF in excess of the audit fee paid.
This was primarily due to fees external auditors paid to the corporate finance arm of the auditors rm in t DPOTJEFSJOH B SFQPSU GSPN UIF FYUFSOBM BVEJUPST PO UIF relation to the major new PPP PFI contract gains by Viridor.
review of the financial year-end and meeting them in the We considered carefully the reasons for the engagement of absence of management to discuss their remit and any the auditors rm in accordance with the process described issues arising from the audit, including managements above.
Of paramount importance was the continuing treatment of significant judgements which the auditors had independence of the auditors which the Committee was confirmed following discussion with management were satisfied was maintained due to the safeguards followed considered to be satisfactory by the auditors rm as described above.
We were also t DPOTJEFSJOH BO JOUFSOBM DPOUSPM SFQPSU GSPN UIF FYUFSOBM satisfied that it was appropriate to appoint the auditors auditors which reviewed the co-ordination of activities with rm to undertake such work because of the auditors rms the Groups internal audit function specialist knowledge and the limited number of consultants t LFFQJOH VOEFS SFWJFX UIF FGGFDUJWFOFTT PG UIF SPVQ T with the expertise to undertake such engagements.
These internal controls, including all material financial, operational PPP PFI contracts are of vital importance to the long-term and compliance controls and risk management systems strategic development of Viridor and it is critical that Viridor should be able to benefit from the best advice available in t NPOJUPSJOH BOE SFWJFXJOH UIF FGGFDUJWFOFTT PG UIF SPVQ T the market.
The number of PPP PFI contract opportunities internal audit function and approving the annual internal is expected to decline from 2012 13 onwards leading to a audit plan corresponding decline in corporate finance fees payable.
t SFWJFXJOH UIF mOEJOHT PG UIF JOUFSOBM BVEJU GVODUJPO BOE The Committee also acknowledged that the absolute level reviewing and monitoring managements responsiveness of non-audit fees payable to the Companys auditors is to such findings consistent with the level of non-audit fees incurred by many t PWFSTFFJOH UIF SFMBUJPOTIJQ XJUI UIF FYUFSOBM BVEJUPST companies within the FTSE 100. including their appointment, remuneration, re-appointment Another area of particular importance to the Committee is and the monitoring of their independence and objectivity the internal audit activities of the Group.
The Group has a particularly having regard to the supply of any non-audit longstanding and effective centralised internal audit function services by the auditors rm together with separate reviews undertaken within both t SFWJFXJOH UIF MFWFM PG BVEJU BOE OPO BVEJU GFFT QBJE South West Water and Viridor.
A Group Internal Audit Plan t BO VQEBUFE GSBVE BOUJ CSJCFSZ BOE PUIFS JSSFHVMBSJUJFT QPMJDZ is approved in September each year.
It takes account of the and procedure to take account of the provisions of the activities to be undertaken by the external auditor and also new Bribery Act, which was subsequently approved by the Groups annual and regular interim risk management the Board.
This approach seeks to ensure that there is an ongoing programme of internal and external audit reviews After consideration of the reports provided by the external focused on key risk areas throughout the Group.
The Group auditors, and our assessment of the performance and Audit Manager reports quarterly to the Committee on audit independence of the auditors during the year in conjunction reviews undertaken and their findings.
with the Group Director of Finance, we consider that it is appropriate that the external auditors be re-appointed and The areas of the business of the Group which received will make an appropriate recommendation to shareholders audit attention over the past year included Group treasury at the Annual General Meeting.
processes: business continuity management: information security and IT risks: Viridor site practices: credit It is our practice as an additional assurance, at the end of management and debt collection: and core systems meetings of the Committee, to hold separate meetings with and processes.
the external auditors and the internal Group Audit Manager without management present to discuss their respective We have also considered a range of matters during the year areas of activity during the previous period and any issues in accordance with our established calendar of business and arising from their audits.
Terms of Reference including in particular: 48 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Financial statements Dinah Nichols, Sustainability Committee Chairman Ken Harvey, Nomination Committee Chairman 1 Sustainability Committee The Nomination Committee Members Appointment date Attendance Members Appointment date Attendance Dinah Nichols Kenneth Harvey Chairman November 2006 5 5 Chairman March 1997 3 3 Gerard Connell November 2006 5 5 Gerard Connell October 2003 3 3 Martin Angle December 2008 4 5 Martin Angle December 2008 3 3 Dinah Nichols June 2003 3 3 Colin Drummond November 2006 4 5 Christopher Loughlin November 2006 5 5 The Nomination Committee meets as and when required to select and recommend to the Board suitable candidates The Sustainability Committees duties, in the context of the for appointment as Executive and Non-executive Directors requirement for companies to conduct their business in a to the Board and as executive directors to the Viridor responsible manner in relation to environmental, social and and South West Water boards, determine the nomination governance ESG matters, are to review the strategies, process and review succession plans.
It is the practice of policies, management, initiatives, targets and performance the Committee, led by the Chairman, to appoint an external of the Pennon Group of companies in the areas of search consultancy to assist in any Board appointments.
occupational health and safety and security: environment: During the year the Committee considered the annual workplace policies: non-financial regulatory compliance performance evaluation results for the Committee: and the role of the Group in society.
considered and approved the appointments of an During the year the Committee considered a wide range executive director and a non-executive director to the of matters in accordance with its Terms of Reference Viridor board: reviewed equality and diversity arrangements including: throughout the Group: and commenced the process, t UIF SPVQ 4VTUBJOBCJMJUZ 3FQPSU BOE UIF with the assistance of external search consultants, associated Veriers Report for the appointment of a further Non-executive Director t UIF 4PVUI 8FTU 8BUFS BOE 7JSJEPS 4VTUBJOBCJMJUZ 3FQPSUT to the Board taking account of the recommendations of the Lord Davies Review, Women on Boards.
t UIF SPVQ T IFBMUI BOE TBGFUZ QFSGPSNBODF BOE QMBOT Gender Diversity The Boards policy t UIF 7FSJmFS T SFDPNNFOEBUJPOT GPS UIF OFYU 4VTUBJOBCJMJUZ In accordance with the Lord Davies Review Reports recommendations and the expected changes to the UK t QSPHSFTT BHBJOTU UIF 4VTUBJOBCJMJUZ UBSHFUT GPS Corporate Governance Code the Code the Committee t 4VTUBJOBCJMJUZ UBSHFUT GPS is pleased to report that the Board has adopted a Boardroom Diversity Policy which confirms that t UIF BOOVBM SFWJFX PG SPVQ QPMJDJFT the Board is committed to: t B OFX DPNNVOJUZ SFMBUJPOT BOE JOWFTUNFOU QPMJDZ t UIF TFBSDI GPS #PBSE DBOEJEBUFT CFJOH DPOEVDUFE BOE t EFWFMPQNFOUT BOE QSPHSFTT JO DBSCPO SFEVDUJPO ESJWJOH appointments made, on merit, against objective criteria sustainability within the Group supply chains.
and with due regard for the benets of diversity on the In reporting on sustainability, the Company has sought to Board, including gender comply with the Association of British Insurers Guidelines t TBUJTGZJOH JUTFMG UIBU QMBOT BSF JO QMBDF GPS PSEFSMZ on Responsible Investment Disclosure.
The Business succession of appointments to the Board and to senior review on pages 34 to 39 contains the Groups 2012 Annual management to maintain an appropriate balance of skills Sustainability Report.
and experience within the Group and on the Board and to 1 formerly Corporate Responsibility Committee.
ensure progressive refreshing of the Board.
In addition, within the spirit of Principle B.
2 of the Code, the Board will endeavour to achieve and subsequently maintain: t B NJOJNVN PG GFNBMF SFQSFTFOUBUJPO PO UIF #PBSE CZ 2015 and maintain the current 14% representation until Board committees terms of reference the higher percentage is achieved The Terms of Reference of the Audit, Remuneration, t B NJOJNVN PG GFNBMF SFQSFTFOUBUJPO PO UIF SPVQ T Nomination and Sustainability Committees are available senior management team by2015.
upon request to the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary and are also set out on the Companys website pennon-group.
co. uk Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 49 Governance Corporate governance and internal control continued in respect of their own areas of responsibility.
All Executive Currently the Group has 14% female representation at Board Directors and senior managers are required to certify on an annual level and in a workforce of circa 4,500 some 16% are women.
basis that they have effective controls in place to manage risks and In senior middle management executive positions the female to operate in compliance with legislation and Group procedures.
We also have a Whistleblowing policy and we thoroughly As well as its Boardroom Diversity Policy the Group has a investigate any allegations of misconduct and irregularity and number of policies embracing workplace matters, including consider the implications for our control environment.
In the normal non-discrimination and equal opportunities policies.
course of business investigations into irregularities may be ongoing as of the date of the approval of the financial statements.
The Committee is required by the Board to review and monitor compliance with the Boardroom Diversity Policy and All of these processes serve to ensure that a culture of effective report on the targets, achievement against those targets and control and risk management is embedded within the organisation overall compliance in the Annual Report each year.
and that the Group is in a position to react appropriately to new risks as they arise.
Details of key risks affecting the Group are set out in the Business review on pages 28 to 33.
Internal control framework The Group also has a well established internal control framework The Remuneration Committee which is operated and which applies in relation to the process for Details of the Remuneration Committee and the Directors preparing the Groups consolidated accounts.
remuneration report can be found on pages 52 to 60.
This framework comprises: t B DMFBSMZ EFmOFE TUSVDUVSF XIJDI EFMFHBUFT BO BQQSPQSJBUF level of authority, responsibility and accountability, including responsibility for internal financial control, to management of Internal control operating units Wider aspects of internal control The Board is responsible for maintaining the Groups system of t B DPNQSFIFOTJWF CVEHFUJOH BOE SFQPSUJOH GVODUJPO XJUI BO internal control to safeguard shareholders investment and the annual budget approved by the Board of Directors, which also Groups assets and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system monitors the financial reporting process, monthly results and is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to updated forecasts for the year against budget achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable t EPDVNFOUFE mOBODJBM DPOUSPM QSPDFEVSFT.
BOBHFST PG and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or operating units are required to confirm annually that they have loss.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and adequate financial controls in operation and to report all material managing the significant risks faced by the Group that has been areas of financial risk.
Compliance with procedures is reviewed in place throughout the financial year 2011 12 and up to the date and tested by the Companys internal audit function of the approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
t BO JOWFTUNFOU BQQSBJTBM QSPDFTT GPS FWBMVBUJOH QSPQPTBMT GPS The Board confirms that it continues to apply procedures in all major capital expenditure and acquisitions, with dened accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the levels of approval and a system for monitoring the progress Guidance on Internal Control The Turnbull Guidance which of capital projects suggests means of applying the internal control part of the t B QPTU JOWFTUNFOU FWBMVBUJPO QSPDFTT GPS NBKPS DBQJUBM Code.
As part of these procedures the Board has a Group Risk expenditure and acquisitions to assess the success of the Management Policy GRMP which provides for the identication project and learn any lessons to be applied to future projects.
ofkey risks in relation to the achievement of the business Internal control review objectives of the Group, monitoring of such risks and annual An evaluation of the effectiveness of overall internal control evaluation of the overall process, as described in more detail compliance by the Group is undertaken in respect of each below.
The GRMP is applied by all business units within the financial year and subsequently up to the date of this report Group in accordance with an annual timetable.
to assist the Audit Committee in considering the Group internal Risk identication audit plan for the forthcoming financial year and also the Business A full risk and control assessment is undertaken annually by the review for the Annual Report.
The Group General Counsel management of each business to identify financial and non- & Company Secretary initially carries out the evaluation with financial risks which are then regularly updated.
Each business Directors and senior management for consideration by the Audit compiles as part of regular management reports an enhanced Committee and subsequently for final evaluation by the Board.
and focused assessment of key risks against corporate objectives.
In addition the Audit Committee regularly reviews the operation At each meeting the Board receives from the Executive Directors and effectiveness of the internal control framework and annually details of any new high-level risks identied and how they are to reviews the scope of work, authority and resources of the be managed, together with details of any changes to existing risks Companys internal audit function.
The Committee reports and and their management.
The subsidiary boards of South West makes recommendations to the Board on such reviews.
For Water and Viridor also receive at each meeting similar reports 50 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Financial statements 2011 12 and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report As at 31 March 2012: and Accounts, both the Audit Committee and the Board were a details of the Companys issued share capital, which consists of satisfied with the effectiveness of the GRMP and the internal Ordinary shares of nominal value 40.7 pence each, are set out control framework and their operation within the Group.
in note 31 to the financial statements on pages 101 to 103.
All of Further information on the internal control review is set out on page the Companys issued shares are fully paid up, rank equally in 47 in relation to the Audit Committee.
all respects and are listed on the Ofcial List and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The rights and obligations attaching Going concern to the Companys shares, in addition to those conferred on The Directors consider, after making appropriate enquiries, that their holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue of Association Articles, copies of which can be obtained in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Group they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Company Secretary at the Companys registered ofce.
The holders of the Companys shares are entitled to receive Directors responsibilities statements the Companys reports and accounts and in relation to general The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the meetings of the Company they have the right to attend and Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in speak, exercise voting rights and appoint proxies: accordance with applicable law and regulations.
b there are no restrictions on the transfer of issued shares of Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial the Company or on the exercise of voting rights attached to statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors them, except where the Company has exercised its right to have prepared the Group and Company financial statements suspend their voting rights or to prohibit their transfer following in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the omission of their holder or any person interested in them IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law to provide the Company with information requested by it in the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless accordance with Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006 or where they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of their holder is precluded from exercising voting rights by the affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules or the City Code the Group for the year.
on Takeovers and Mergers: In preparing these financial statements the Directors are required to: c details of significant direct or indirect holdings of securities of the t TFMFDU TVJUBCMF BDDPVOUJOH QPMJDJFT BOE UIFO BQQMZ UIFN Company are set out in the shareholder analysis on page 113: consistently d the Companys rules about the appointment and replacement t NBLF KVEHFNFOUT BOE BDDPVOUJOH FTUJNBUFT XIJDI BSF of Directors are contained in the Articles and accord with usual reasonable and prudent English company law provisions.
The powers of directors are t TUBUF XIFUIFS BQQMJDBCMF '34T BT BEPQUFE CZ UIF &VSPQFBO determined by UK legislation and the Articles in force from Union have been followed, subject to any material departures time to time.
Changes to the Articles must be approved by the disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
Companys shareholders by passing a special resolution: The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above e the Directors have the power to make purchases of the requirements in preparing the financial statements.
Companys own shares in issue as set out in the Directors report on page 41 Purchase of own Ordinary shares.
No such The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting purchases have been made during the year.
The Directors also records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys have the authority to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time value of i 48,541,689 such amount to be reduced by any the financial position of the Group and the Company and enable shares allotted or rights granted under ii below in excess of them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors 48,541,689 or ii 97,083,378 by way of rights issue such remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 amount to be reduced by any shares allotted or rights granted and, as regards the Group financial statements, article 4 of the from i above which were approved by shareholders at the International Accounting Standards IAS Regulation.
They are 2011 Annual General Meeting AGM.
In addition, shareholders also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and approved a resolution giving the Directors a limited authority to the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the allot shares for cash other than pro rata to existing shareholders.
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
These resolutions remain valid until the conclusion of this years Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on AGM.
Similar resolutions will be proposed at this years AGM.
pages 44 and 45, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: The Directors have no present intention to issue Ordinary a the financial statements, which have been prepared in shares other than pursuant to the Companys employee share accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards schemes and Scrip Dividend Alternative: and IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the f there are a number of agreements which take effect, alter or assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and terminate upon a change of control of the Company following of the Company and a takeover bid, such as bank loan agreements, Eurobond b the Directors report contained on pages 2 to 41 includes a fair documentation, private placement debt and employees share review of the development and performance of the business plans.
None of these is considered to be significant in terms of and position of the Company and the Group, together with a their potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
By Order of the Board The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Ken Woodier of the Companys website pennon-group.
co. uk Legislation in the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination 18 June 2012 of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Corporate governance statements The following disclosures are made pursuant to Part 6 of Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts & Reports Regulations 2008 and Rule 7.2.
R of the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51 Governance Directors remuneration report Dear shareholder I am pleased to present the remuneration report for 2012 on behalf of the Board.
We will be presenting this report for your approval at our Annual General Meeting in July.
This report is designed to provide you with details of: t the Remuneration Committee t the Groups Remuneration policy t Directors remuneration t specic remuneration disclosures required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations, which are audited.
We appreciate that there remains investor concern relating to executive director remuneration generally and, whilst focus has been on the financial sector primarily, it is fully recognised that there is a need for other sectors to continue to take account of this concern in reviewing and setting their remuneration policies and overall remuneration practice.
This is why we asked our Martin Angle, Remuneration Committee Chairman remuneration consultants recently to undertake a review of our incentive benets to ensure that they continue to be aligned with The Remuneration Committee creating shareholder value and only provide rewards to Directors Members Appointment date Attendance commensurate with the achievements of the Group.
I am pleased to say that our consultants confirm that this is the position.
As Martin Angle a result we do not propose any changes to our remuneration Chairman December 2008 3 4 arrangements which have been in place without amendment for Gerard Connell October 2003 4 4 the past five years.
Dinah Nichols June 2003 4 4 The essential elements of our remuneration package and their purpose therefore continue to be as set out below.
Elements of remuneration Type of Remuneration Description Purpose Fixed Base Salary Annual salary set by reference to market level Rewards appropriately for the role appropriate for role and based on individual undertaken and assists in key person skills, experience and performance retention and recruitment Assists in key person retention and Pension Final Salary Dened benefit for existing Directors Dened Contributions for any new recruitment appointees or cash alternative commensurate with market level pension arrangements Variable Short-term Annual: Assessed against corporate financial Incentive for annual performance across Annual Incentive Bonus Plan Maximum performance and individual personal the Group at individual and team level.
The 100% of basic salary with 50% paid in cash achievements relating to a range of deferred element also assists in key person and 50% in shares deferred for three years operational and compliance targets retention and recruitment Long-term three years: Total shareholder return performance criteria A long-term reward which aligns Directors Performance and Co-investment Plan PCP 50% linked to water and waste comparator performance to shareholder value and future performance over three years group and 50% linked to relative FTSE 250 which drives sustainable practices and with an underpin relating to operational and assists in key person retention and economic performance recruitment.
52 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Financial statements The Committees Terms of Reference include: t Deloitte LLP, auditing and remuneration consultants, on calculating the Companys total shareholder return t advising the Board on the framework of executive compared with two comparator groups for the Companys remuneration for the Group Performance and Co-investment Plan.
Deloitte also provide t determining the remuneration and terms of engagement financial, tax and risk management review advice to the of the Chairman, the Executive Directors and Senior Company Management of the Group.
t Aon Hewitt Limited, pensions and remuneration No Director or any other attendee participates in any consultants, on providing advice on pension benets.
Aon discussion on, or determination of, his or her own Hewitt also provided actuarial and investment advice to remuneration.
the Company and to the Trustees of the Groups pension During the year the Committee received advice or services schemes which materially assisted the Committee in the consideration t Towers Watson UK Limited, remuneration consultants, of remuneration matters from Ken Harvey, Chairman of on the Companys Director and senior management annual the Company, and from the following advisors who were incentive benets framework.
appointed directly by the Committee: t Ken Woodier, Group General Counsel & Company Secretary, on remuneration and share scheme matters.
He also provides legal advice and company secretarial services to the Company Remuneration policy The Groups remuneration policy which will be applied in 2012 13, and is also currently intended to be applied in each subsequent year, continues to be to provide a remuneration package for Executive Directors which is adequate to attract, retain and motivate good quality executives and which is commensurate with the remuneration packages provided by companies of similar size and complexity.
The key guiding principles of this policy are to: t design an overall package to be competitive and to take account of the markets in which the Groups businesses operate t support the overarching business strategy for the Group t adopt incentive arrangements designed to reward performance and align the interests of the Executive Directors with those ofshareholders t reinforce the incentive element of the package by maintaining base salaries for Executive Directors at the relevant market median t have a remuneration package which is fair and consistent with other companies in the sector and which provides incentives for outperformance.
The policy in respect of Non-executive Directors fees is set out on page 56 in the Non-executive Directors remuneration section.
In setting executive remuneration the Committee not only takes account of employment market conditions, but seeks to ensure that there are coherent pay and benefit structures across the Group which are consistent with the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and senior management.
From summary reports on workforce remuneration and terms and conditions of employment by the Executive Directors with regard to their respective business areas, the Committee has regard to the general levels of responsibility, qualications and experience required throughout the Group in setting salary and other benets of the Executive Directors and senior management.
The Committee also ensures that the incentive structures do not raise environmental, social or governance ESG risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
A number of individual performance objectives specically relate to achieving non-financial, including ESG, targets as outlined on page 54.
The balance between maximum performance-related remuneration receivable and direct remuneration i. e. excluding pensions, car benefit and health cover is the same as last year with one-third direct and two-thirds performance-related.
This is expected to continue for the foreseeable future.
The Company also has a Shareholding Guideline which applies to Executive Directors and Senior Management.
It is structured to demonstrate their commitment to the future success of the Group.
Executive Directors are expected to build up their shareholding over a five-year period to a value which is at least equivalent to their basic annual salary.
The following is a detailed summary of the elements of remuneration: i Basic salary and benets these are set out on page 57 for each Executive Director and are not related to performance.
The Committee reviews salaries annually taking account of market data available from independent remuneration consultants.
Last year the general increase was 4.0%.
When reviewing base salaries the Committee takes account of the performance of the individual Executive Directors which the Committee assesses with the advice of Ken Harvey, Chairman of the Company.
Other benets, not mentioned below, include four times salary life assurance cover: a fully expensed car or a cash alternative: and health cover.
ii Performance-related bonus annual performance related bonuses are awarded in accordance with the Groups Annual Incentive Bonus Plan the Bonus Plan and are based on the achievement by the Executive Directors of overall corporate and individual objectives set by the Committee.
The maximum bonus achievable under the Bonus Plan for Executive Directors for 2011 12 was 100% of basic salary.
To achieve the maximum percentage bonus allocated in respect of the corporate targets of earnings per share and profit before tax it is necessary for the Company to achieve a specified level of superior outperformance.
Half of any bonus awarded is in the form of Ordinary shares in the Company which must usually be held for a period of three years before release Deferred Bonus Shares.
During this period the Directors, in respect of the Deferred Bonus Shares, are entitled to receive any dividends declared by the Company.
No additional performance conditions applicable to the release of the Deferred Bonus Shares, apart from maintaining continuous service with the Company, are considered appropriate by the Committee in view of the stretching performance conditions applicable to achieve the initial award of the Deferred Bonus Shares.
The Committee, in setting the performance objectives for Executive Directors, takes account of corporate performance on environmental, social and governance ESG matters.
Objectives set embrace appropriate ESG parameters which are important to the success of the Group and which seek to ensure that the Group meets a number of its ESG targets as set out in the Group Sustainability report on pages 34 to 39 of the Business review.
The Committee in setting such objectives and in determining its remuneration policy overall ensures that the relevant incentives to Directors and senior management aligns their interests with shareholders and raise no ESG risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 53 Governance Directors remuneration report continued The Bonus Plan is also operated in conjunction with the Companys Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS on the basis that the aggregate pre-tax value of the awards made under both the Bonus Plan and the ESOS would be the same as they would have been if the Bonus Plan had been operated alone, which was the position prior to 2009 10.
This is achieved by providing for Deferred Bonus Shares awarded to be forfeited by the Directors up to the same value as that of any gain made in respect of options exercised by the Directors pursuant to the ESOS at the end of the three-year restricted period.
Only the HMRC approved part of the ESOS was operated in 2009 10 which enabled options over Ordinary shares in the Company to be granted to Directors to the value of 30,000 at the then prevailing price.
No further options will be granted to the Executive Directors pursuant to the Bonus Plan until the existing options either are exercised or lapse at the end of the three-year restricted period in September this year.
Details of the options are set out in the table in paragraph d on page 60.
Set out below is a summary of the performance targets determined by the Committee for each Executive Director for 2012 13.
These are similar to the targets applied for 2011 12.
Colin Drummond A bonus of up to 40% for outperformance of Group earnings per share against budget: up to 40% calculated by reference to outperformance of the profit before tax and net debt budgets of Viridor: and up to 20% for personal objectives relating to key business targets for Viridor.
David Dupont A bonus of up to 40% for outperformance of Group earnings per share against budget: up to 40% for outperformance against budget relating to net debt and net interest of the Group and profit before tax of South West Water and Viridor: and up to 20% for personal objectives relating to Group nancing and other Group initiatives.
Chris Loughlin A bonus of up to 40% for outperformance of Group earnings per share against budget: up to 20% for personal objectives relating to implementing South West Waters new strategies and projects and meeting compliance targets: and up to 40% calculated by reference to the average bonus earned by the other Executive Directors of South West Water which relate to outperformance against the operating costs, profit before tax, capital expenditure and net debt budgets of the company: the position the company achieves in the Service Incentive Mechanism of water and sewerage companies established by Ofwat: the achievement of a range of service standards set for the company by Ofwat: and personal objectives relating to key initiatives, projects and compliance targets for South West Water.
The achievements of the Executive Directors against their individual performance objectives are assessed by the Committee following the financial year-end when the audited results of the Company and performance against the parameters set are known.
This enables the Committee to apply largely objective criteria in determining the level of bonus if any which should be awarded, with the advice of the Chairman of the Company, Ken Harvey.
iii Long-term incentive plan A Performance and Co-investment Plan PCP was operated by the Company during the year for Executive Directors and senior management.
The purpose of the PCP is to award shares to participants subject to the achievement of stretching performance conditions measured over three years.
Awards under the PCP, in the form of a conditional right over Ordinary shares in the Company, were made by the Committee in July 2011 and, for Executive Directors, the award was over shares worth 100% of basic salary.
In accordance with its discretion pursuant to the rules of the PCP, the Committee made the vesting of the awards also subject to the fullment of a coinvestment condition whereby Executive Directors were required to invest and hold shares in the Company equal to 20% of the value of their award over the Restricted Period being a period of three years from the date of the award.
The percentage requirement for senior management was suitably scaled back.
The number of shares subject to each award in the event of vesting will be increased by such number of shares as could have been acquired by reinvesting the dividends which would otherwise have been received on those shares prior to vesting or exercise.
The PCP awards made in July 2011 will vest based on the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance over the Restricted Period against two different comparator groups as set out below.
This is the same performance criteria that was applied to the PCP awards made in July 2010 and July 2009.
TSR measures the value created for shareholders through increases in share price and the payment of dividends and was applied by the Committee because, based upon advice received from remuneration consultants, Deloitte LLP, it believes that this is an appropriate measure to align the interests of the Executive Directors with those of shareholders: 54 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Financial statements t up to 50% of an award will vest according to the Companys TSR performance measured against an index made up of the following six listed water and waste comparator companies: Northumbrian Water Group Shanks Group Sch Environnement Suez Environnement Severn Trent United Utilities These companies are regarded as the Companys key listed comparators.
As Northumbrian Water Group was delisted from the London Stock Exchange in October 2011 the Committee in respect of the July2011 award at the end of the three-year Restricted Period will have discretion to include this company in the calculation of the index up to the date of delisting or other earlier date at its discretion and exclude the company from the date onwards or adopt an alternative approach.
Water Waste index Vesting Above the index 15% 50% Equal to the index 15% Straight-line vesting in between above positions Below the index 0% t up to 50% of an award will vest according to the Companys ranked TSR performance against the constituents of the FTSE 250 index excluding investment trusts.
This is the FTSE Index to which the Company belonged at the time of the award.
FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts Vesting At or above the 75th percentile 50% Above 50th percentile 15% Straight-line vesting in between above positions At or below the 50th percentile 0% In addition to the above TSR conditions, before any award is capable of vesting, there is an Underpin condition whereby the Committee needs to be satisfied that the underlying operational and economic performance of the Company is at a satisfactory level.
This evaluation includes consideration of ESG factors and safety performance, as well as financial performance.
Whilst the Committee intends currently to apply similar performance conditions including the Underpin to any future PCP awards, they are reviewed on an annual basis to ensure that the conditions continue to be appropriate and suitably stretching for future awards.
For the PCP awards made in August 2008 the same performance measures were used as set out above except that Suez Environnement was listed part-way through the performance period on 21 July 2008 and was included In the calculation of the index value from that date onwards.
The calculation of TSR performance over the three-year performance period being 1 April 2008 to 1April 2011 for these PCP awards was undertaken by Deloitte LLP for the Committee.
The table below summarises the calculation: Portion of Comparator group award Rank Percentile rank Final vesting level 17.2% outperformance Waste Water index 50% against index 50.0% FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts 50% 103rd out of 186 44.9% 0.0% Total vesting 50.0% The Committee was satisfied that the Underpin condition referred to above had been met and therefore approved the vesting of 50.0% of the award as calculated by Deloitte together with shares equivalent to the value of dividends declared during the Restricted Period on such shares with the remaining 50.0% lapsing.
iv Other share schemes Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the Companys Sharesave Scheme and Share Incentive Plan.
Both are all-employee plans to which performance conditions do not apply.
v Service contracts In accordance with Company policy, all Executive Directors have service contracts subject to one years notice.
David Duponts and Chris Loughlins service contracts are due to expire when they reach their normal retirement age of 60.
However it is expected that they will be extended by agreement between each Director and the Company.
Colin Drummond reached his normal retirement date on 22February 2011 and has continued in employment with the Company in the same position as Chief Executive, Viridor, and as a Director of the Pennon Group Board.
His service contract with the Company continues subject to one years notice.
No provision is made for termination payments under the service contracts.
In the event of an early termination of a Directors service contract, the Committees policy is to ensure that any compensation payable whether share-based or cash reects the Directors performance and the circumstances of the termination.
The dates of the contracts are: Colin Drummond 5 March 1992 David Dupont 2 January 2003 Chris Loughlin 16 May 2006 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 55 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Total shareholder return TSR TSR 150 120 90 60 30 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Calendar year Pennon FTSE 250 The graph above shows the value, over the five-year period ending on 31 March 2012, of 100 invested in Pennon Group on 31 March 2007 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
This Index is considered appropriate as it is a broad equity market index of which the Company has been a constituent over most of the period covered.
The graph above has been produced in accordance with regulations made pursuant to Section 421 of the Companies Act 2006. vi Provision for pensions During the year David Dupont participated in the Pennon Group Pension Scheme and the Pennon Group Executive Pension Scheme until 3 March 2012 when he decided to take his benets early.
These are funded dened benefit schemes which, dependent on length of service at normal retirement date, could amount to two-thirds of final pensionable pay up to an Earnings Cap which ceased to apply in the Executive Scheme from 6 April 2006.
David Dupont had been provided with additional pension benets under an unapproved funded Supplementary Pension Scheme of the Company in order to bring his pension benets up to a level which would have been provided under the other schemes as if the Earnings Cap had not applied.
With effect from 6 April 2006 the statutory Earnings Cap no longer applied to pension schemes as part of the simplication of taxation of pensions legislation.
The Committee accordingly decided to provide future service pension benets above the Earnings Cap level from the Pennon Group Executive Pension Scheme to Directors who were members of that Scheme.
The Supplementary Pension Scheme was therefore closed and the accrued benets were paid out to its members in April 2006.
The pensionable pay for David Dupont consisted of the highest basic salary in any consecutive twelve-month period of service within five years of retirement.
Bonuses are not included in pensionable pay.
Colin Drummond and Chris Loughlin receive an annual payment payable by monthly instalments equivalent to 30% of each of their annual basic salaries in lieu of the provision of pension benets.
David Dupont from 3 March 2012 is also entitled to receive a similar benefit but, with the agreement of the Company, has had his pension accrued benefit augmented by the sum of 94,062 paid for by the Employer which will be deducted from the annual payment to be paid in lieu of pension benefit.
In determining remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors, the Committee gives full consideration to their impact on the pension schemes funds and costs of providing individual pension arrangements or payments in lieu of pension provision.
Non-executive Directors and the Chairman Non-executive Directors remuneration excluding that of the Chairman, Ken Harvey consisting of fees only as set out below, is determined by the Board of Directors, including the Chairman, but in the absence of the other Non-executive Directors.
It is usually reviewed each year to take account of market changes in Non-executive Directors fees.
In reviewing the fees, the Board takes into account market information on Non-executive Directors fees.
The fees were reviewed last year and increased by between 4.5% and 4.76%.
The base Non-executive Director fee in the year was 40,000 per annum.
The Audit, Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility Committee chairs were paid fees of 10,000, 7,000 and 7,000 per annum respectively and members of these committees received 4,000 each.
For this and subsequent years the policy expected to be applied in respect of Non-executive Director fees will be to set fees around the median level compared with the market, which the Board believes is appropriate to attract and retain suitably experienced Non-executive Directors.
56 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
