86 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Board Risk Committee report continued Business Service Line Review.
Each of our individual businesses Interface between the Board Risk has its own business management system that incorporates risk Committee and Audit Committee management policies and procedures and produces its own risk register.
Each business units management team meets regularly The Committee and Audit Committee both revised their respective andmonitors risk as a matter of course, notes any change in terms of reference during 2011.
As a result, the Committee has riskassessment and seeks to take appropriate mitigating action.
responsibility for assurance and oversight ofenterprise risk Theriskregisters for each business are formally reviewed each management, while the Audit Committee hasresponsibility for monthby thatbusiness senior leadership team.
assurance and oversight of financial and regulatory controls.
Whilst the Board has delegated the detailed work to these two Risk appetite Committees, it retains overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group has effective internal control and risk management and therefore As part of the review of our risk management framework, receives regular reports on the work of the Committees from their theCommittee continued to believe that it should not apply respective chairmen.
In addition, the Board retains ultimate asingleaggregate riskappetite for the Group as a whole.
responsibility for the Group enterprise risk prole.
The Groups risk appetite is articulated in a number of ways, appropriate to the type of risk, and the Committee has continued Bribery toreview the matter during 2012 to ensure that it is able to exercise appropriate stewardship.
This can be seen in our Policy statements, The UK Bribery Act created a new corporate offence of failing to which describe the Committees approach to each risk category: prevent bribery.
Our Code of Conduct was updated in 2012 and andour Policy standards, which describe acceptable controls and relaunched in early 2013 and continues to make it clear that Petrofac limits.
Examples can be found in the Enterprise Risk Management does notpermit the giving or receiving of bribes.
Nevertheless, Policy: the Sovereign and Financial Market Risk Policy: and the wehave toensure that we have in place adequate procedures, Operational and Contractual Risk Policy.
designed to counteract the risk of bribery in our value chain.
Theprimary remit of our Group Head of Compliance is to ensure In terms of concentration risk, our country entry assessments control thatemployees are aware of and adhere to the Code of Conduct.
Business plans quantify maximum Hehas initially focused on rolling outPetrofacs standard for the exposures in those territories through measures such as backlog, prevention of bribery and corruption, including the implementation revenue and net income.
Other risk appetite statements are ofan extensive educational and training programme and raising embedded within our approach to issues such as: awareness of our Speak Up programme.
Online training, designed tocommunicate the existence of our standard and its key principles, t earnings volatility focusing on the deviation from expectations was rolled out to an initial targeted population of 3,000 employees.
t credit headroom for assessing liquidity risk Bythe end of 2012, approximately 5,000employees across the t deterministic scenarios focussing on specic project based Group had completed the anti-bribery training, with new employees opportunities eg using IRR or net income being required to undertake the training within 90 days of joining the t reputation focused on impact on stakeholders Group.
Face-to-face anti-bribery training has been delivered to teams from Iraq, Turkmenistan and Algeria and there has been engagement During 2013 the Board will continue to review the Groups with project teams in Nigeria and Mexico.
EnterpriseRisk Prole, together with the evolving Key Risk Register.
Thesedocuments will increasingly become the means by which the Groupsrisk appetite and tolerance are dened.
Whistleblowing The Companys whistleblowing policy is communicated to employees via the Speak Up programme through the Companys Code of Assurance and reporting Conduct.
To provide further education and publicity, a global The Committee has continued its work in relation to theGroups risk multi-language communication campaign was launched in each of management framework during 2012.
Its primary areas of focus were our sites during 2012.
The Speak Up programme allows those who developing further the assurance programme for the Groups know, or have suspicions, of any breaches of the Code of Conduct enterprise risk management system and ensuring the clarity and toreport the matter to a manager or anonymously contact the appropriateness of risk reporting through the chain of command.
independent helpline by telephone or online without fear of reprisal or recrimination.
Our international external facility has been available for a Group Internal Audit has focused on providing assurance regarding number of years and this service operates 24 hours a day, seven days financial and regulatory controls and therefore continues to report a week.
Access to the helpline was extended to third parties in 2012 solely to the Audit Committee as explained below.
All matters reported are reviewed and assessed byour Group Head of Compliance, to determine whether further investigation is warranted and to ensure that appropriate action is taken.
The Committee receives details of the issues reported together with any action being taken.
Any alleged breaches relating to financial compliance are dealt with by the Audit Committee.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 87 Group policies In addition to the Code of Conduct, the Company currently has in place a number of policies, standards, and codes of practice.
These are: Policy Articulates our attitude to risks related to: Sovereign and Financial Market Risk Policy Country, ination, commodity, liquidity, currency, credit and counterparty risk.
Ethical, Social and Regulatory Risk Policy Ethics, non-compliance with a countrys local laws and regulations.
Operational and Contractual Risk Policy Project performance, business continuity, leadership change and health, safety, security, environment and integrity assurance HSSEIA.
Enterprise Risk Management Policy All critical and significant risks Political: Economic: Strategic: Technological: Legal: Environmental, etc.
Health & Safety Policy Injury and ill-health: pursuing the goal of zero accidents and incidents: complyingwith allapplicable health and safety laws and regulations: continual improvement ofhealth and safety performance.
Environmental Policy Applicable environmental laws and regulations: minimising impact on the environment throughpollution prevention, minimisation of waste and emissions and the efficient use of energy and resources.
Asset Integrity Management Policy Asset integrity: maintaining appropriate standards: mitigating risks to prevent undesired events: transparency in reporting of the Companys integrity assurance.
Security Policy Security of the business environment for the protection our people and our assets: minimisingbusiness loss and disruption: transparency in reporting of the Companys securityperformance.
Guidelines for Acceptable use of Information generated by or entrusted to Petrofac: safeguarding condentiality andintegrity: InformationSystems protecting information resources from theft, abuse, misuse and legal or regulatoryexposures.
Quality Policy Our quality management systems: quality policy and standards as partof the management system framework: transparency in the reporting of the Companys quality performance.
Security Business continuity management Petrofacs security department monitors the security environment in all Hub ofces in Sharjah, Aberdeen, Mumbai, Chennai, London, countries of operation to ensure that adequate protective measures Wokingand Kuala Lumpur, have business continuity management are in place.
The security management system developed to protect and disaster recovery plans in place and testing these plans has personnel and assets across the Group remains consistent with the beencompleted for a number of these ofces.
As a result of recent scale and geography of Petrofacs operations, as detailed further on growth in Malaysia, Business Impact Analysis is being updated in page 58.
The Committee has closely followed events in the Middle Singapore, Jakarta and Kuala Lumpur.
East and North Africa MENA as a large proportion of our work is in the MENA region.
During 2012 the Group suffered minimal disruption Insurance to its activities.
Contingency planning for security-led evacuations andother security emergencies continues to be a high priority and Petrofac commenced a review of insurance arrangements in 2011 thishas been tested recently by events in Algeria.
Our Group Head with the ultimate objective of conrming that the programmes ofSecurity provides regular updates to the Board and the Committee continue to be Fit for Purpose given the recent changes in the scale on the security status of each country.
and nature of the Groups activities.
Following a full tender exercise, Aon was appointed as the Groups insurance broker and adviser in January 2012.
During the course of the year specic recommendations were made in relation to the structure of the future insurance programme and these are in the process of being implemented.
88 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Directors Remuneration report Role of the Committee t determine and agree with the Board the broad policy and framework for the remuneration of Executive Directors, theChairman and certain senior managers t review the continued appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy t ensure that incentives are appropriate to encourage enhanced performance and provide alignment with long-term shareholder value t approve the design of, and determine the targets for, performance related pay schemes t review the design of all share incentive plans before approval by the Board and shareholders and monitor the application of the rules of Thomas Thune Andersen such schemes and the overall aggregate amount of the awards Chairman of the Remuneration Committee t determine the remuneration of all Executive Directors, the Chairman and certain senior managers within the agreed policy, taking into account remuneration trends across the Company and remuneration practices in other peer companies How the Committee spent its time during the year 2012 remuneration review, including # annual bonus and PSP arrangements Review of external environment # Governance other # Design, consideration and approval # of Value Creation Plan Membership and attendance at meetings held in 2012 Meetings attended eligible to attend Current members Thomas Thune Andersen Chairman Stefano Cao Roxanne Decyk Thomas Thune Andersen was unable to attend one telephonic meeting due toa prior business commitment.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 89 Dear shareholder 2013 proposals Petrofac has a history of setting salaries at moderate levels, with As Chairman of Petrofacs Remuneration emphasis placed on variable remuneration to ensure that individuals only receive substantial remuneration for exceptional performance Committee, I am pleased to present the anddelivery of sustained, long-term shareholder value creation.
Directors Remuneration report following another year of strong performance.
We believe that our existing remuneration framework remains appropriate for Petrofac, and accordingly, we will be making no 2012 performance changes to our policy.
There have been moderate increases to As set out on page 3, Petrofac has continued to perform well during Executive Director salaries in line with those determined for the 2012, delivering strong financial performance and achievement of key widerworkforce.
As a matter of course, the Committee considers executive In terms of financial performance, we again achieved net profit remuneration matters with due reference to risk management growthof 17% and are making good progress towards our target andthere are clear risk management measures within all of setout in2011 of more than doubling Group 2010 earnings by ourincentive plans.
Therewas continued growth in our backlog to US$11.8 billion, whichreected major project wins in Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Kuwait, The Committee values all feedback from shareholders, theUK andMexico.
andhopestoreceive your support at the forthcoming AGM.
Notwithstanding this level of performance, the Committee sets stretching targets, and as a result, some of our operational and safety goals were not met.
In general, performance against these measures was good, but we did not meet our own expectations in all respects.
In particular, there were two fatalities of Petrofac contract workers, Thomas Thune Andersen one at the Kauther site in Oman and one at the NGL4 site in the UAE.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee In addition, the achievement of some backlog targets was delayed as a result of slippage in the timing of certain contract tender processes 26 February 2013 during the year.
All of this was taken into account when we were determining annualbonuses.
As a result, when coupled with strong individual performance, 2012 bonus outcomes were generally 75% 85% ofmaximum.
Our three-year TSR and EPS performance over years 2010 to 2012 wassuch that the 2010 PSP awards have been earned in full.
Shareholder consultation Following consultation with major shareholders in early 2012, the Value Creation Plan VCP was approved at the 2012 AGM, with support received from almost 80% of our shareholders.
During the consultation, we took into consideration all comments received, and I am very grateful for the constructive and helpful feedback.
As a direct result, we made several changes to the originalproposal, including incorporating a number of performance underpins and substantial shareholding requirements for participants.
We consider that these revisions help to support the underlying business objectives of the VCP, whilst also providing shareholders with additional comfort.
As a Committee, we recognise the difficult environment surrounding executive remuneration at the current time and the relatively unconventional nature of the VCP.
In this context, we are particularly appreciative of the extent of support received.
90 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Directors Remuneration report continued Introduction Policy report: Summary of 2013 This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to remuneration policy theLarge and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and The Committee aims to establish a level of remuneration which: Reports Regulations 2008 of the United Kingdom and relevant listing rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The Committee takes t is sufficient to retain, attract and motivate Executive Directors responsibility for the preparation of the report, which is approved andkey executives of the calibre required to achieve the bythe Board.
Groupsobjectives t reects the size, complexity and international scope of the Groups We fully support the focus on transparency set out in the new business, together with an executives individual contribution and disclosure regulations for UK-listed companies proposed by the geographical location Department of Business, Innovation and Skills BIS, which are duetotakeeffect for financial years ending after October 2013.
The remuneration policy for Executive Directors and certain senior  taken the opportunity to structure the managers is as follows: 2012report to incorporate as many of the proposed features this yearas practicable, while retaining all of the content required under t basic salaries are generally median or below, against a relevant the existing regulations.
benchmarking group t the variable elements of remuneration are structured so that This report therefore contains: individuals can achieve upper quartile total remuneration, subject toachievement of challenging performance standards 1 A policy report which outlines Petrofacs proposed future remuneration policy: and This remuneration policy has remained unchanged since 2007 and the Committee considers that it remains t for purpose and ensures 2 An implementation report which explains how our remuneration policy that Executive Directors and senior managers are incentivised to was implemented during 2012. deliver the Groups strategic goals and long-term shareholder value.
The sections of this report dealing with Directors emoluments and The Committee believes that the most appropriate pay share interests pages 97 to 103 have been audited by Ernst & comparatorsare: Young, the Groups external auditors.
t for the Group Chief Executive and certain operational executives, At the time of publication, there remains a degree of uncertainty aselect group of international and UK oil and gas services around how the binding vote on remuneration policy will operate in companies to the extent that data in relation to such companies future years.
As such, the Company has chosen to monitor how the ispublicly available regulations develop in this respect and does not intend to put the t for certain functional executives, FTSE companies of a similar size remuneration policy to a binding vote at the 2013 AGM.
and complexity Although not a requirement of Jersey law, shareholders will once The Committee also uses remuneration in UK companies of a similar again be invited to approve the entire remuneration report at the size and complexity as an additional reference point when considering AGMon 17 May 2013.
In accordance with the current regulations, the remuneration of operational Executive Directors and senior thevote on this resolution is an advisory vote and will cover the managers.
remuneration policy and overall remuneration packages.
Members of the Committee will be available at the AGM to answer shareholders questions regarding Directors remuneration.
The Board and the Committee consider that, throughout 2012 and upto the date of this report, the Company has complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code relating to Directors remuneration.
In addition, the guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers ABI and the National Association of Pension Funds NAPF have been noted.
As set out above, the Committee considers executive remuneration matters in the context of alignment with risk management.
Twomembers of the Board Risk Committee sit on the Committee whichallows them to provide oversight on any Group risk factors relating toremuneration matters.
The Committee believes that the remuneration arrangements in place do not raise health and safety, environmental, social or ethical issues, nor inadvertently motivate irresponsible behaviours.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 91 Executive Directors Summary of xed remuneration arrangements for 2013 onwards Purpose and Performance Element linktostrategy Operation Opportunity metrics Planned changes Salary t Core t Basic salaries are reviewed t Dependent on the individuals t n a t No changes elementof atthe beginning of each year roleandcontribution proposed to remuneration, and any change is applied t Generally set at median or thepolicy paidfor doing with effect from 1January belowagainst a relevant t All 2013 salary theexpected benchmarking group increases broadly day-to-day job t Salary increases for Executive inline with the Directors will normally be in line wider employee withthose of the wider workforce population in relevant market Where the Committee considers it see page 95 appropriate and necessary, larger forfurther details increases may be awarded in exceptional circumstances, or if anindividual assumes signicantly moreresponsibility Cash allowance t Provide t UK-resident Executive t Market standard for role and t n a t No changes employees Directors receive a cash geographical location although proposed to with an allowance in place of benets current levels are below median thepolicy allowance for including, but not limited to, t With effect from 1 January 2013, t From 1 January benets and car allowances and pension UK-based Executive Directors are 2013, cash retirement contributions entitled to an annual cash allowance allowances planning t UAE-resident Executive of 70,000 forUK-based Directors receive a cash t With effect from 1 January 2013, Executive Directors allowance in respect of UAE-based Executive Directors are were increased housing and transport, in line entitled to an annual cash allowance by5,000 and with local market practice of $220,000 Marwan Chedids t Cash allowance levels are kept cash allowance under regular review by the wasincreased Committee byUS$20,000.
These were the rstchanges made in two years Benets t Provide t All UK-based Executive t Dependent on the individuals t None t No changes employees Directors receive private roleand circumstances proposed to with market health insurance, life t The Committee keeps the benefit thepolicy competitive assurance and long-term policy and benefit levels under benets disability insurance regularreview t UAE-based Executive Directors receive similar benets to UK-resident Executive Directors and, inaddition, receive other typicalexpatriate benets, including childrens education and return ights to their permanent home End of Service t To comply t The statutory end of service t The statutory payment is based on t None t No changes indemnity with local payment is due toall theindividuals number of years of proposed to UAEExecutive UAEstatute non-UAE national employees service and salary level at the time thepolicy Directors only working in the UAE, only at oftheir departure the end of theircontracted employment Pension Petrofac does notprovide any formal pension arrangements for Executive Directors 92 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Directors Remuneration report continued Summary of variable remuneration arrangements for 2013 onwards Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Planned changes Annual t Incentivise t Awarded annually t Maximum cash t Performance is assessed over one t No changes bonus achievement t Bonus level is award of 200% nancialyear proposed to ofshort-term determined by ofbasic salary t Subject to achievement against a balanced the policy nancialtargets theCommittee scorecard of metrics, including: and personal following the year HSE and integrity measures objectivesthat end, based on Financial, including net income, backlog theCommittee performance andcost management considers are against targets Group and where relevant business critical drivers of serviceline strategic and operational business growth performance measures and People-related measures Performance t Incentivise t Award levels t Maximum t Performance is assessed over three t No changes Share Plan executive aredetermined award of 200% nancialyears proposed to PSP performance byreference of basicsalary t 50% of the award is based on Total the policy over the toindividual t Awards of up Shareholder Return TSR relative to a peer longerterm performance to300% of group on an index TSR basis: t Performance priorto grant basicsalary Below index performance 0% vesting measures linked t Awards vest maybe made tothe long-term afterthree years, inexceptional Performance equal to the index 30% vesting strategy of the subject to circumstances significant outperformance business, and achievement of oftheindex thecreation of performance 25% outperformance over shareholder conditions threeyears for 2013 awards 100% vesting valueover the assetout in the longer term performance The international peer group comprises the tables opposite following companies for 2013 PSP awards: Aker Solutions Saipem AMEC Schlumberger Chicago Bridge & Iron Co. SNC-Lavalin Group Fluor Corporation Technip FosterWheeler Tecnicas Reunidas Halliburton Wood Group John JGC WorleyParsons Maire Tecnimont t 50% of awards are subject to achievement of compound annual growth in earnings per share EPS : Threshold performance 10% p. a. EPS growth for2013awards 0% vesting Target performance 15% p. a. EPS growth for2013awards 30% vesting Maximum performance 20% p. a. EPS growth for2013awards 100% vesting t For both the TSR and EPS element, straightline vesting operates between the points shown As the Value Creation Plan was a one-off plan and does not form part of our ongoing remuneration policy, it has not been shown in the table above.
More information on the VCP can be found in the implementation section of the report on pages 99 and 100.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 93 Recruitment policy In determining whether it is appropriate to use such judgement, the In cases where the Company hires a new Executive Director, the Committee will ensure that any awards made are in the best interests Remuneration Committee will use the above policy to determine the of both Petrofac and its shareholders and will give due regard to all Executive Directors ongoing remuneration package.
relevant factors including quantum, the nature of remuneration and the jurisdiction the candidate was recruited from.
To facilitate recruitment, the Remuneration Committee may make a one-off award to buy out incentives and any other compensation The Committee is at all times conscious of the need to pay no more arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing than is necessary.
sotheCommittee will ensure that any such awards would be on a comparable basis, taking account of all relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to those awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met, the proportion of the vesting performance period remaining and the form of the award.
Non-Executive Directors Summary of remuneration arrangements for 2012 onwards Purpose and Performance Planned Element link to strategy Operation Opportunity metrics changes topolicy Non-executive t Core element t Paid quarterly t Fees are set at a level which t n a t No changes fees ofremuneration, t Based on the level of fees generally is considered appropriate to proposed to paidfor fullling paidto Non-executive Directors retain and attract the calibre the policy therole in serving on boards of similarly-sized, of Non-executive Director question UK-listed companies and the size, Petrofac requires responsibility and commitment t This is the sole element required of the role ofNon-executive Director t The remuneration of the Company remuneration.
Non-executive Chairman is set by the Remuneration Directors are not eligible Committee forannual bonus, share t The Board as a whole is responsible incentives, pensions or for deciding Non-executive Directors otherbenets fees, unless such fees exceed 1,000,000 per annum in aggregate, in which case shareholder approval in a general meeting would be sought Senior management remuneration Subject to continued employment, invested and matching shares The remuneration policy for senior management is consistent with either vest over three years, usually on an annual pro rata basis or thevalues of the policy for the Executive Directors set out above and infull on the third anniversary of award.
Executive Directors are not intentionally places significant emphasis on variable remuneration.
eligible to participate in the DBSP, except prior to joining the Board.
Remuneration, as for the wider workforce, is linked to the financial Participation in the Restricted Share Plan RSP is not offered on a and non-financial performance metrics of the Group and each regular basis.
Key employees may, however, receive awards under business service line and to appropriate individual objectives.
theRSP on their appointment to the Company.
Awards are typically made to individuals who join the Company part way through the year Around 40 senior employees, who are essential to the success of the in compensation for remuneration opportunities foregone elsewhere.
business, participate in the PSP and 12 key individuals excluding the Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the RSP, except CEO and President participate in the VCP.
This framework promotes prior to joining the Board.
significant alignment with shareholders and ensures that a substantial proportion of senior management remuneration is dependent on Prior to their respective appointments as Executive Directors, stretching, long-term performance goals.
AndyInglis and Tim Weller both received awards under the RSP aspart of the joining arrangements put in place to secure their A significant proportion of Petrofac employees, including senior appointments and Marwan Chedid participated in the DBSP.
employees participate in the Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP, under which they are required to defer a proportion of their cash Whilst Executive Directors do not participate in a pension plan, the bonus into Company shares.
These contributions have historically Company operates a dened contribution pension scheme for its been matched by the Company, on a 1:1 basis.
In line with new legislation, Petrofac will also be introducing pensions auto-enrolment to its UK workforce during 2013.
94 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Directors Remuneration report continued Performance measures For the purposes of the chart above, the following assumptions have Petrofac strives to align the performance measures under the PSP been made: with the long-term strategy of the Company.
The PSP is based upon TSR and EPS performance metrics in which the Committee considers t benets amount received by the Chief Executive officer in 2012 strong performance should result in long-term sustainable shareholder t target annual bonus 50% of maximum i. e. 100% of base salary value creation as detailed in the policy table on page 92. t maximum annual bonus 200% of base salary t target vesting under the PSP 30% of maximum i. e. 60% of base Relative TSR remains the best measure of the Companys ultimate salary delivery of shareholder returns and ensures that the Company must t maximum vesting under the PSP 200% of base salary outperform its most important competitors in order for Executive t no share price growth or dividend accrual assumptions have been Directors to receive significant levels of remuneration.
incorporated under the PSP t the VCP has been excluded as it is a one-off plan and does EPS is the most relevant indicator of the underlying financial notform part of the Companys ongoing remuneration policy performance of Petrofac and is the measure most closely linked to value creation in the oil and gas services business.
Service contracts and exit payment policy Executive Directors have 12-month rolling service contracts with the Executive Director awards subject to performance conditions Company and are contractually restricted to a termination payment Under its remuneration policy, the Company only makes awards of equal to 12 months salary and benets.
variable remuneration to Executive Directors that are subject to Number of stretching performance conditions.
Name of months notice Executive Date of Date appointed Director service contract to the Board Company Director Ayman Further information Asfari 13 September 2005 11 January 2002 12 12 Remuneration mix and performance scenarios Maroun A significant proportion of Petrofacs total remuneration 1 Semaan 13 September 2005 11 January 2002 12 12 packageisvariable.
There is a particular emphasis on long-term Marwan share-based incentives, to align closely Directors interests with Chedid 18 January 2012 19 January 2012 12 12 shareholders interests.
The balance between xed basic salary, Andy Inglis 4 January 2011 1 March 2011 12 12 benets and cash allowances and variable annual bonus and PSP elements of remuneration varies depending on performance.
Tim Weller 29 June 2011 13 October 2011 12 12 1 Maroun Semaans contract was varied on 1 December 2011 to reect his The chart below provides an illustration of expected remuneration for newrole as President.
Executive Directors at three levels of performance: below threshold, target and maximum.
All Executive Directors have the same structure None of the Executive Directors is subject to a contractual retirement of remuneration package, and therefore an individuals graph would date.
New appointments will normally be made on a one-year have a similar shape to that shown below.
The actual outcome may rollingcontract.
The Company may terminate employment by making differ from that shown, depending on a number of factors, including a payment inlieu of notice equivalent to the value of base salary and Company share price growth.
benets inrespect of the notice period.
The Company would normally expect Executive Directors to mitigate any loss upon their departure.
Total remuneration all gures expressed as a % of salary In addition, Maroun Semaan and Marwan Chedid, as UAE resident p Salary p Cash allowance p Benets Executive Directors, are entitled by local statute to receive a cash sum p Annual bonus p PSP called an end of service indemnity payment from their employer on the termination of their employment within the UAE.
Such payments are due to all non-UAE national employees working in the UAE and 200% are based on years of service and salary.
Further details are provided on pages 97 and 139.
60% 200% 100% 11% 11% 11% 8% 8% 8% 100% 100% 100% Below-threshold Target Maximum The graph above reects the mix between xed and variable pay.
For information, at target performance, xed pay would equate to approximately 42% of total remuneration, with bonus and PSP equating to 36% and 22% of total remuneration, respectively.
At maximum performance, xed pay would equate to approximately 22% of total remuneration, with bonus and PSP each equating to 39% of total remuneration.
Fixed Variable Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 95 Non-executive Directors The Company also operates a UK tax-approved Share Incentive Plan Non-executive Directors are retained on terms set out in their letters of SIP.
Under the SIP, eligible employees may invest up to 1,500 of appointment.
They do not have service contracts and are not entitled gross salary per tax year to purchase ordinary shares.
There is no to compensation on leaving the Board.
holding period for these shares.
The Company does not make awards of Matching or Free Shares under the SIP.
Participation is offered to However, if the Chairman or a Non-executive Director is requested allUK resident employees, including Executive Directors.
Tim Weller toresign, they are entitled to prior notice or fees in lieu of three contributes the maximum amount each month to buy shares under months notice.
Required As a result of the Companys share incentive plans, as well as shares notice from owned and purchased by employees prior to and since IPO, Petrofac Date of latest Date appointed Company is proud of the significant levels of share ownership within the Director letter of appointment to the Board in months Company and we consider that this helps drive performance Norman Murray 28 January 2011 1 March 2011 3 throughout the business.
Thomas Thune Andersen 11 February 2010 13 May 2010 3 The Committee has noted the proposal put forward in the BIS Stefano Cao 11 February 2010 13 May 2010 3 regulations for companies to disclose whether the wider workforce Roxanne Decyk 28 January 2011 1 March 2011 3 was consulted in drawing up the remuneration policy presented in this Ren Mdori 19 January 2012 19 January 2012 3 report.
While the Company does not directly consult with employees Rijnhard van Tets 2 February 2007 11 May 2007 3 as part of the process of reviewing executive pay, the Committee does receive feedback from employee engagement surveys and takes this into account when reviewing executive pay.
Wider workforce remuneration When determining remuneration arrangements for Executive Spend on pay Directors, the Committee takes into consideration, as a matter of For information purposes, the following table shows the percentage course, the pay and conditions of employees throughout the Group.
year-on-year change in dividends, net profit and Group total remuneration between the 2011 to 2012 financial years, compared In particular, the Committee paid specic attention to the level of withthe two preceding periods.
salary increases and the size of the annual bonus pool in the wider population, with particular reference to the year-on-year change in Percentage year-on-year change: these gures.
p 2009 10 p 2010 11 p 2011 12 For 2013, UK and UAE wider workforce salary increases are around 30 4% and 6% respectively.
UK-based Executive Director salary 25 increases are c. 3% 4%.
For Marwan Chedid, a UAE-based Executive Director, the salary adjustment is c. 6%.
All of these 20 increases are broadly in line with the wider employee population 15 intherelevant local market.
10 The total remuneration for the CEO decreased year-on-year by 5 c. 15%, primarily due to the lower absolute number of shares 0 Dividends Net profit Group total remuneration awardedunder the PSP in 2010 that were earned in the period to 31December 2012.
The total remuneration gure calculated for 2012for the CEO is on the basis of our current understanding of For the purposes of the chart above, the following denitions have theBIS single-gure methodology, detailed on page 97. been used: Within our highly competitive sector, there is upward pressure on t dividends dividends per share paid in respect of the financial year remuneration levels at all grades.
The Committee is aware that t net profit profit for the year attributable to Petrofac Limited securing increasingly sought-after key talent is critical to the continued shareholders, as reported in the consolidated income statement success of Petrofac.
As such, some areas of the business are excluding the gain from the EnQuest demerger in April 2010 experiencing significant pay ination, and in these locations, wider t Group total remuneration total staff costs workforce increases are considerably ahead of those received by theExecutive Directors.
All-employee annual bonus arrangements are aligned with those ofthe Executive Directors, ensuring that individuals throughout the Company are incentivised towards consistent business goals and objectives, with annual bonuses subject to Company and individual performance targets.
Approximately one-third of employees participate in the DBSP, under which they are required to defer a proportion of their cash bonus into Company shares.
Awards may also be made under the RSP to key employees from time to time.
Further information on these plans is outlined on page 93.
Percentage year-on-year change 96 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Directors Remuneration report continued In respect of incentive plans, the Remuneration Committee determines the treatment of all leavers in accordance with the relevantplan rules.
The standard Petrofac policy for the treatment ofoutstanding awards under the PSP and VCP is outlined below.
Treatment for bad leaver Plan Automatic good leaver categories Treatment for good leaver i. e. any other leaver Performance t Death Awards will normally vest on a time-apportioned basis and, SharePlan t Injury, ill-health or disability subject to the achievement of performance conditions, at the t Transfer ofemploying company relevant vesting date.
outside Group The vesting date for such awards will normally be the original t Retirement by agreement vesting date, although theCommittee has the exibility to withemployer determine thatawards can vest upon cessation of employment.
t Redundancy In the event of death, all unvested awards shall vest in full t Otherscenario where onthe date of death.
Remuneration Committee determines goodleaver treatmentjustied Awards lapse in full Value t Death Awards will normally vest on a time-apportioned basis and, Creation Plan t Injury, ill-health or disability subject to the achievement of performance conditions, at the t Transfer ofemploying company relevant vesting date.
outside Group The vesting date for such awards will normally be the original t Retirement by agreement vesting date, although theCommittee has the exibility to withemployer determine that awards can vest upon cessation of employment.
t Otherscenario where In the event of death, all unvested awards shall vest as soon as Remuneration Committee practicable following death unless determined otherwise by the determines good leaver Committee.
Awards will normally vest on a time-apportioned treatmentjustied basis and subject to the achievement of performance conditions at the relevant vesting date.
Shareholder context The Committee is pleased to note that the 2011 Directors The Company places great emphasis on our relationship with Remuneration Report received a vote in favour from over 97.5% shareholders, and recognises the importance of clear and full ofshareholders at the 2012 AGM.
In addition, the resolution on consultation on all aspects of remuneration and governance at Petrofac.
theintroduction of the Value Creation Plan received support from almost 80% of shareholders.
In early 2012, a total of 24 major shareholders and three shareholder representative bodies were consulted in relation to a number of The Committee continues to monitor shareholder views when executive remuneration matters.
evaluating and setting ongoing remuneration strategy, and commits toconsulting with shareholders prior to any significant changes to The consultation included details on: ourremuneration policy.
t introduction of the Value Creation Plan t 2012 salary increases and 2011 annual bonus amounts t remuneration arrangements for Marwan Chedid upon appointment to the Board in January 2012 Key shareholders were invited to attend brieng sessions on these proposals and we greatly appreciate the number who took up this opportunity.
Following these meetings we entered into further dialogue with shareholders and were grateful for the constructive and helpful feedback received.
The Committee considered all commentary received and, as a direct result, made a number of changes to the Value Creation Plan proposal.
These changes provided shareholders with additional comfort and assurance from a risk management perspective that participants would only receive value if underlying Company performance was strong.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 97 Implementation report: summary of 2012 remuneration outcomes Auditedinformation Single gure of remuneration for each Director in respect of the 2012 financial year The following table shows the emoluments of the Executive Directors and Non-executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Thesub-total gures shown for 2012 and 2011 represent the requirements of the current legislation.
The final column on the right represents our understanding of the methodology currently proposed by BIS for calculation of the single gure of remuneration.
2 All taxable benets received in 2012.
UK-resident Executive Directors receive private health insurance, life assurance and long-term disability insurance.
AymanAsfaris benets primarily relate to the employment of a personal assistant who spends part of her time in the administration of his personal affairs.
UAE-resident Executive Directors receive similar benets to UK-resident Executive Directors and in addition receive other typical expatriate benets, such as childrens education and return ights to their permanent home.
3 UK-resident Executive Directors receive a cash allowance in place of benets including, but not limited to, car allowances and pension contributions.
Directorsdonot receive pension contributions from the Company.
UAE-resident Executive Directors receive a cash allowance in respect of housing and transport, inline withlocal market practice.
4 Full cash bonus awarded in respect of financial year 2012.
5 UAE-resident Executive Directors are required by local statute to receive an end of service indemnity payment.
Such payments are due to all non-UAE national employees working in the UAE and are based on years of service and salary.
These sums will be payable by the Company only on termination of the individuals employment from the UAE.
The amounts disclosed are the increase in entitlement benefit for 2012.
The total amounts retained in respect of Maroun Semaan andMarwan Chedid are US$984,256 and US$854,749 respectively.
6 2010 awards under the Performance Share Plan are due to vest in full on 19 March 2013.
The value shown represents an estimate of the market value of theseawards using a three-month average share price of 1606.33p 1 October to 31 December 2012.
7 Norman Murray, Andy Inglis and Roxanne Decyk were appointed Directors on 1 March 2011 and their 2011 total remuneration gures reect the period fromthisdate to 31 December 2011.
The 2011 comparison gure for Andy Inglis included a one-off relocation allowance under the terms of his appointment, asdisclosed inthe 2011 Directors remuneration report.
8 Tim Weller was appointed as a Director on 13 October 2011 and his 2011 total remuneration gure reects the period from this date to 31 December 2011.
9 Marwan Chedid and Ren Mdori were appointed as Directors on 19 January 2012.
10 UK-based Directors are paid in sterling.
Amounts have been translated to US dollars based on the prevailing rate at the date of payment or award withthe exception of the bonus amounts, which have been translated using the average exchange rate for the year of 1:US$1.5866.
11 Non-executive Directors receive a basic fee of 60,000 per annum, and an additional fee of 14,000 per annum for acting as a Chairman of a Board Committee.
Both of these fees are unchanged since 1 January 2011.
Since appointment as Non-executive Chairman in May 2011, Norman Murray has received a fee of 230,000 per annum.
Following a review of the time commitment required for this role, this fee was increased to 270,000, effective from 1 July 2012.
98 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Directors Remuneration report continued Annual bonus Individual elements of remuneration For 2012, in line with the stated policy, the Committee set the Basic salary maximum bonus potential at 200% of basic annual salary.
In January In 2012, in line with the relevant local market, Executive Directors 2013, the Committee determined whether to award each Executive received salary increases of 5% effective from 1 January 2012.
Director a cash bonus in respect of 2012.
In doing so, theCommittee considered the extent of achievement of Executive Directors against a In determining salaries for 2013, the Committee has taken into balanced scorecard of metrics, including: consideration a number of factors, including the level of salary increases in the wider workforce, internal and external positioning t HSE and integrity measures andthe general economic climate.
t financial performance, including net income, backlog and costs t Group and where relevant business service line strategic and The Committee also recognises that Petrofac has continued to operational performance measures and perform strongly during the year and accordingly, the Committee t people-related measures proposes to increase salaries by c. 3% 4% for UK-based Executive Directors, effective from 1 January 2013.
For Marwan Chedid, a In addition, some Executive Directors have targets related to UAE-based Executive Director, the salary adjustment proposed is succession planning, risk management and the development and c. 6%, recognising his strong performance since appointment to implementation of the Groups CR programme.
All increases are broadly in line with the wider employee Committee considers that it has an incentive structure for senior population in the relevant local market, as outlined on page95.
management that promotes responsible behaviour.
The table below shows base salaries proposed for 2013, and those The Committee awarded bonuses of between 153% and 171% of paid in 2012. salary to Ayman Asfari, Marwan Chedid, Andy Inglis and Tim Weller, inrecognition of strong financial performance and achievement of key 2013 2012 strategic milestones.
basic salary basic salary Ayman Asfari 632,000 611,000 In terms of financial performance, net profit growth was again in excess Maroun Semaan US$595,000 US$595,000 of 15% and good progress was made towards the target set out last Marwan Chedid US$575,000 US$540,500 year of more than doubling Group 2010 earnings by 2015.
There was Andy Inglis 545,000 525,000 continued growth in our backlog to US$11.8 billion, which reected Tim Weller 440,000 425,000 major project wins in Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Kuwait, the UK and Mexico.
Notwithstanding this level of performance, the Committee sets Benets in kind and cash allowance in lieu of pension stretching targets and, as a result, some operational and safety goals Details of benets in kind are provided in the table on page 97. were not met.
In general, performance against these measures was In2012, cash allowances for all Executive Directors were held good, but expectations were not met in all respects.
In particular, atthesame level as in 2011.
With effect from 1 January 2013, there were two fatalities and the achievement of some backlog targets theCommittee has increased cash allowances for all UK-based were delayed as aresult of slippage in the timing of certain contract Executive Directors by 5,000, and for Marwan Chedid, tender processes during the year.
a UAE-based Executive Director, by US$ 20,000.
The table below sets out 2012 annual bonus awards made to The table below shows cash allowances for 2013 and those paid Executive Directors.
2012 As % of 2013 2012 annual bonus 2012 salary cash allowance cash allowance Ayman Asfari 990,000 162 Ayman Asfari 70,000 65,000 Maroun Semaan US$500,000 84 Maroun Semaan US$220,000 US$220,000 Marwan Chedid US$850,000 157 Marwan Chedid US$220,000 US$200,000 Andy Inglis 900,000 171 Andy Inglis 70,000 65,000 Tim Weller 650,000 153 Tim Weller 70,000 65,000 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 99 Performance Share Plan Vesting of 2010 PSP award The performance period for the 2010 PSP award ended on 31December 2012.
The structure and vesting schedule for this award is consistent with that set out in the PSP section of the remuneration policy table on page 92.
Half of the award was based on relative TSR performance against the peer group companies set out below: Aker Solutions Fluor Corporation Maire Tecnimont Technip AMEC Foster Wheeler Saipem Tecnicas Reunidas Chicago Bridge & Iron Co. Halliburton Schlumberger Wood Group John Entrepose Contracting JGC SNC-Lavalin Group WorleyParsons Over the performance period, Petrofac outperformed the index by 38%, which will result in 100% of this element of the award vesting.
The remaining half of the award was based on EPS growth.
Over the performance period, Petrofacs EPS growth was 22% over the period.
EPSgrowth of 20% per annum was required for full vesting.
Accordingly, this performance will result in 100% of this element of the awardvesting.
Overall, for PSP awards made in 2010, 100% of the award is due to vest on 19 March 2013.
The Committee also gave consideration to the strengthof underlying Company performance, and determined that no reduction in the overall vesting level was required.
Long-term incentives awarded during the financial year 2012 PSP award For awards made under the PSP in March 2012, the structure and vesting schedule are in line with that set out in the remuneration policy tableon page 92.
PSP awards granted on 19 March 2012 are set out in the table below.
Further details on the actual number of shares grantedunder the PSP are set out on page 102: Type of award made during Basis of award Face value of award Percentage vesting Director the year % of salary on date of grant at threshold Performance period Ayman Asfari 196% 1,201,548 Maroun Semaan 168% 630,918 1 January 2012 to 1 Marwan Chedid PSP 231% 788,665 0% 31 December 2014 Andy Inglis 191% 1,001,278 Tim Weller 159% 675,862 1 Marwan Chedid received an exceptional award of 231% of base salary in 2012, in recognition of his strong individual contribution to the business and his promotion to the Board.
2012 Value Creation Plan award The Value Creation Plan VCP was approved by shareholders at the 2012 AGM.
Awards of premium-priced share options were then made under the VCP to key individuals with responsibility for driving business growth, including three Executive Directors.
Summary information on the VCP is laid out for your reference below.
Further information is provided in our 2011 Directors Remuneration Report and our 2012 Notice of AGM, both of which are available on our website at www.
As stated on page 96, the VCP is closely aligned with our policy of aligning executive and shareholders interests and providing upper quartile remuneration where challenging standards are met while paying basic xed remuneration at median or below.
Participants in the VCP will only gain significant amounts of reward through the VCP for the delivery of very stretching Group, and in some cases, additional business service line, performance targets, which would likely result in the creation of substantial shareholder value.
VCP awards granted to the Executive Directors on 18 May 2012 are set out in the table below.
Expected Face value of Type of award value of core Expected core option Percentage 1 1 made during option award value of core award Face value of Exercise price vesting at Performance 2 Director theyear % of salary award % of salary option award pence threshold period Marwan Chedid 200% 684,654 1026% 5,266,568 VCP 1710.28 1 January 2012 Premium- 10% premium Andy Inglis 200% 1,050,000 1026% 8,076,923 0% to 31December priced share to share price 2015 3 options at grant Tim Weller 100% 425,000 513% 2,179,487 1 The core award represents the value of the award on a face value basis, prior to application of the divisional business service line multiplier, which can reduce or increase vesting by 0.5x to 1.5x.
Tim Weller does not have a divisional business service line multiplier and therefore this represents his maximum award.
At grant, options were valued at 19.5% of face value using a recognised simulation model, which translates into a face value award of roughly five times expected value.
2 The face value of the option award is based upon the maximum numbers of shares that may vest subject to the achievement of stretching targets including, whererelevant, the impact of the divisional business service line multiplier.
3 The share price used for setting the exercise price was 1555 pence.
This represents the average closing price over the five-day period immediately prior to the date ofgrant.
100 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Directors Remuneration report continued Performance conditions Before any VCP share option award can be exercised, there are five distinct stretching performance measures that must be achieved.
Performance condition Details Exercise price The exercise price for the awards was set at 1710.28 pence, a 10% premium to the Companys share price at grant.
Accordingly, share price growth of at least 10% must be achieved before participants realise any value.
Group profit After Tax Threshold Maximum PAT FY2015 Group PAT Below US$862m US$1,293m or more 1 Level of vesting 0% 100% 1 Between US$862m and US$1,293m, vesting would be on a straight-line basis Divisional business Multiplier which may potentially reduce or increase the award by 50%, dependent service line performance onindividual divisional or business service line earnings performance in FY2015.
for individuals with There is no divisional or business service line multiplier for awards to Group roles.
divisional business Level of achievement Threshold Target Maximum service line Divisional or business service line responsibilities only performance multiplier 0.5x 1.0x 1.5x Malus The Committee may reduce vesting outcomes in certain circumstances prior to the vesting date.
These include material mis-statement of results and misconduct under the Companys Code of Conduct.
Additional performance At each vesting date, the Committee will also evaluate performance taking full account of the following safeguards: safeguards t HSE and ethical performance: t TSR performance against peers no vesting below median : t EPS growth consistent with PAT growth: t delivery of Board-approved business plan: and t positive economic profit performance: t any other material factors impacting risk management.
Following the end of the four-year performance period 2012 to 2015, shares will vest in equal tranches on the fourth, fifth and sixth anniversaries of grant, only to the extent that performance conditions have been satisfied, with full vesting only occurring six years after award.
Shareholding guidelines and interests in shares As a result of discussions with shareholders in relation to the VCP, the Committee introduced a shareholding requirement of 300% of base salary for those Executive Directors participating in the plan.
Ayman Asfari and Maroun Semaan are not VCP participants and therefore do not have a formal shareholding requirement.
However, these twoindividuals already have substantial shareholding interests in the Company, signicantly in excess of the required levels as set out in the table below.
Until these shareholding guidelines have been met, Executive Directors are also encouraged to retain vested shares earned under the Companys incentive plans.
Current shareholding requirements and the number of shares held by Directors are set out in the table below: Number of shares Interests in share Interests in share incentive schemes, incentive schemes, awarded without awarded subject to Shareholding requirement Shares owned performance performance Shares owned as a % of salary outright at conditions at conditions at outright at 1 2 Director Target % achieved 31 December 2012 31 December 2012 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 Ayman Asfari Founding shareholder 62,900,835 275,540 62,837,968 Maroun Semaan Founding shareholder 28,217,864 159,929 28,135,388 3 Andy Inglis 300% 18% 18,035 42,929 172,719 3 Marwan Chedid 300% 2099% 1,321,913 47,700 88,291 1,283,765 3 Tim Weller 300% 36% 28,211 20,444 40,598 Norman Murray 9,630 7,730 Thomas Thune Andersen 4,000 4,000 Stefano Cao Roxanne Decyk 5,804 5,804 Rijnhard van Tets 100,000 100,000 Ren Mdori 1 Includes shares purchased through the SIP for Tim Weller, totaling 78 shares at 31 December 2012.
2 These include exceptional one-off awards made to Andy Inglis and Tim Weller under the RSP at the time of their appointments, prior to them joining the Board.
Also included are the shares awarded under the DBSP to Marwan Chedid prior to his appointment as an Executive Director.
3 Relevant Executive Directors are expected to build up a shareholding of three times salary over a period of five years from appointment.
Andy Inglis was appointed as an Executive Director on 1 March 2011 and Tim Weller was appointed as an Executive Director on 13 October 2011.
Whilst at this stage both individuals have yet to meet the shareholding requirement, they have both taken steps to acquire shares since their appointment.
Marwan Chedids shareholding requirement has been met in full.
For the purposes of determining Executive Director shareholdings, the individuals salary and the share price as at 31 December 2012 1623 pence has been used.
Although neither Ayman Asfari nor Maroun Semaan have formal shareholding requirements, both substantially exceed the target set for the ExecutiveDirectors.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 101 Support for the Committee Additional information required under The Committee has appointed Deloitte LLP Deloitte to provide existing reporting regulations independent advice on remuneration matters.
Deloitte is a member ofthe Remuneration Consultants Group and as such, voluntarily TSR performance graph operates under the Code of Conduct in relation to executive The Companys total shareholder return is dened as our share price remuneration consulting in the UK.
During 2012, Deloitte also growth plus any dividends used to acquire further shares in Petrofac.
provided tax services and secondees who assisted in routine internal For shareholders information, the chart below illustrates the finance functions.
Companys TSR performance over a five-year period from 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2012, compared with the performance of the In addition, the Committee received support during 2012 from legal FTSE 100 Index.
advisers Norton Rose, who provided advice on certain matters relating to current and future compensation and benets.
Norton The Committee believes the FTSE 100 Index is the most appropriate Rose also provided formal advice on share plan matters to the index given the Companys current market capitalisation.
TSR rebased to 100 on 1 January 2008 The following individuals, none of whom were Committee members, attended at least part of one meeting held in 2012.
None of the 400 individuals attended part of any meeting in which their own compensation was discussed.
350 300 Director Role Reason for attendance 250 Ayman Asfari Group Chief Executive To provide context formatters under 200 discussion 150 Norman Murray Chairman of the Board To provide context 100 formatters under discussion 50 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Geoff Traneld Group Director of HR To provide context Petrofac FTSE 100 formatters under discussion Mary Hitchon Secretary to the Board Secretary to the Committee Carol Arrowsmith Partner at Deloitte LLP Adviser Shareholder voting The table below outlines the result of the advisory vote on the 2011 Directors Remuneration Report.
Number of votes cast For Against Abstentions 253,591,459 248,229,740 5,270,571 91,148 97.88% 2.08% 0.04% The Committee is pleased to note that over 97% of shareholders approved the 2011 Directors Remuneration Report.
Since our listing in October 2005, we have received at least 95% support for the Directors Remuneration Report at all AGMs excluding abstentions, and the Committee would like to take this opportunity to thank shareholders for their support over this period.
