Overview Business Review Governance Sustainability Accounts Governance Remuneration Report Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the directors remuneration report for the year to 31 December 2012 to shareholders on behalf of the Board.
This report, as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code introduced by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010 the Code, describes how the Board has applied the principle of the Code to directors remuneration.
While Playtech, as a company incorporated in the Isle of Man, is not required to comply with the requirements set out in Part 15 of the UK Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 2008 Regulations, the Board has sought to do so in all material respects in this report.
In addition, consistent with the draft proposals on directors pay published by the Department for Business, Innovation & Skills, the report has been split into two sections: a Remuneration Policy Report, which sets out the policy on the remuneration of the executive and non-executive directors and an Implementation Report, which discloses how the current remuneration policy has been implemented in the year ended 31 December 2012.
This has been an important year in the development of Playtech, with the move from the AIM to a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, and significant growth in the revenues and adjusted EBITDA of the Group, which have been achieved through the efforts of a talented leadership team.
For the Remuneration Committee, this has meant a major focus on ensuring appropriate remuneration practises are in place both to retain and develop our key talent and also, as our business expands, to attract new talent when required.
Our policies are designed to reward and retain those key individuals who we hope are with us for a number of years as the Company develops further in new channels and markets.
Our remuneration policy, which is set out in more detail in the report, is designed to reward the contributions of senior management but also to incentivise them to maintain Playtechs position as the software and services provider of choice to the gaming sector.
Accordingly, remuneration is delivered via modest fixed remuneration delivered via salary and benefits, and incentive-based remuneration enabling the executives to be rewarded for delivering superior financial performance and returns to shareholder.
The committee believes these measures reinforce the Companys strategy to create a business with significant scale and a full product and service capability, underpinned by a pre-eminent technology platform.
During the year, and prior to the transfer to a premium listing, the committee undertook a review of the suitability of the Companys existing share option plan.
Following this review it was decided that the Company should adopt a new long-term incentive plan with the necessary flexibility to deliver longer-term incentive arrangements for executive directors and senior managers that would reward them appropriately for growth in key performance metrics, such as adjusted EBITDA or Earnings per share, and provide a strong retention tool that a traditional option plan dependent to some extent on fluctuations in the stock market generally, cannot provide.
Accordingly, in March 2012 the Board, on the recommendation of the remuneration committee adopted the Playtech 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan 2012 Plan intended to largely replace the Playtech 2005 Global Share Option Plan Option Plan.
One of the key features of the 2012 Plan is that it allows options to be either granted at nominal or nil cost and or to be settled in cash, which greatly reduces the dilutive impact on existing shareholders generally of the issue of shares on the exercise of options.
With this in mind, it was also agreed to amend the rules of the Option Plan to allow for the cash value of an award to be paid to a participant with their agreement when they exercise an option instead of the participant being issued with new shares and for him or her to realise the value by selling the shares in the market.
Further details of the Companys remuneration policy and structure are provided in this report.
We believe that the remuneration policy and incentive framework currently in place is working well to support the Companys strategy in the current economic environment, is helping to retain and motivate our management team and is helping to drive strong returns for our shareholders.
A single advisory resolution will be put to shareholders at the annual general meeting on 8 May 2013 inviting them to approve the Remuneration Policy Report and the Implementation Report.
Remuneration Policy Report This part of the Remuneration Report has not been audited.
The Companys remuneration policy is designed to ensure that the Group has the ability to attract, retain and motivate individuals to ensure the continued success of the Company.
Remuneration packages are designed to reward the executive directors and members of the senior management team fairly for their contributions, whilst remaining within the range of benefits offered by similar companies in the sector.
The committee believes that the individual contributions made by the executive directors and senior management are fundamental to the successful performance of the Company.
The committee after discussion with the executive directors and its advisers, New Bridge Street, has therefore adopted a remuneration policy with the following objectives: t Pay executives fairly, but recognising that they have highly marketable skills to companies already in and those considering entry to the online gaming industry, but acknowledge local market levels, and where appropriate, practices: t Incentivise and reward behaviours that will contribute to superior Company performance: t Avoid the need to make ad hoc payments outside the formal structure: t Enable the Company to attract and retain international executives at the required calibre, particularly in potential new markets, such as the USA: t Be simple and understandable: t Provide good lock-in of key employees through deferred elements: and t Avoid reward for failure.
The committee believes that its remuneration policy creates a coherent and appropriate framework for remunerating executive directors and senior managers of the Company and draws a clearer link between performance and reward.
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37 Governance Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors At a Glance Purpose and Element & Maximum Link to Strategy Operation Maximum Performance Targets Changes for 2013 Salary To attract, retain and Reviewed annually Other than when an N A CEOs current salary motivate high calibre executive changes roles 450,000 individuals for the role Takes account of or where benchmarking and duties required the external market indicates individual CFOs current salary and other relevant salaries require 200,000 To provide marketfactors including realignment, annual competitive salary internal relativities and increases will not relative to the individual performance exceed the general external market level of increases for the Groups employees To reect appropriate skills, development and experience over time Bonus Clear and direct Paid in cash 150% of salary for 70% based on financial No change incentive linked to the CEO, 100% of performance measures annual performance salary for other targets executive directors 30% based on personal performance Incentivise annual delivery of financial measures and personal performance Corporate measures selected were consistent with and complemented the budget and strategic plan Long-Term Aligned to key strategic Grant of performance Between 150% Performance measured No change Incentive Plan objective of delivering shares to 300% of salary over three years strong returns to performance shares shareholders and Shares generally settled Performance targets earnings performance unless use of shares aligned with the Groups would exceed the free strategy of delivering oat limit for inclusion strong returns to in the FTSE 250 index shareholders and in which case the gain earnings performance is cash settled Pension None N A N A N A N A Other benets To help attract and Provision of private N A N A No change retain high calibre medical, permanent individuals health insurance and life insurance 38 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Sustainability Accounts New appointments: Base salary levels will be set to reflect the experience of the individual, appropriate market data and internal relativities.
If it is considered appropriate to appoint a new director on a below market salary, they may be subject to a series of increases to a desired salary positioning over an appropriate time frame e. g. up to two to three years subject to performance in post.
Normal policy will be for the new director to participate in the remuneration structure detailed above.
The committee may consider it necessary to make an exceptional grant of shares in order to compensate the individual for awards that would be forfeited from the current employer or in order to secure the individuals appointment.
Where possible, such awards would be structured to mirror the form and structure of the forfeited awards or to provide alignment with existing shareholders.
Exits: Executive directors service contracts are terminable by six months notice from either the Company or the executive.
The Company may also make a payment in lieu of notice equal to six months salary and benefits and any applicable statutory payments due to them.
Executive directors may also receive a pro-rated annual bonus for the period worked in the financial year subject to performance.
Standard good leaver definitions are included in the 2012 Plan rules in relation to long-term incentives.
Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors Salary and Benets in Kind Salaries are reviewed annually for each executive director with effect from June each year.
The committee takes into account individual performance and experience, the size and nature of the role, the relative performance of the Company, pay policy within the Company and salaries in comparable companies.
The current basic salary levels of the executive directors are: t M. Weizer: 450,000 t R. Hoffman: 200,000 Benefits include private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, and life insurance.
Annual Bonus Executive directors are eligible to participate in an annual bonus plan based on a combination of corporate financial goals and individual achievements.
The maximum level of bonus that could have been awarded for the financial year 2012 was 150% of base salary for the CEO and 100% of base salary for the CFO.
Any bonus payments are made in cash.
For 2013, bonuses for the executive directors will be based 70% on a financial performance measure, comprising adjusted EBITDA, with the remaining 30% being based on personal objectives.
The level of bonus payable by reference to the financial performance of the Company will be determined on a sliding scale based around the target number, set by reference to the Companys budget for the forthcoming financial year.
The achievement of the target is not all or nothing, but instead would be on a sliding scale, with no bonus being paid until at least 90 per cent of target is achieved and rising on a straight line basis with the maximum paid out only if 120 per cent of target budget is achieved.
Pensions None of the executive directors are members of any Company pension plans.
Long-Term Incentives Share Option Plan The Company operates an unapproved share option scheme in accordance with the Rules of the Playtech Limited 2005 Global Share Option Plan the Option Plan, pursuant to which the senior management and where relevant, the Remuneration Committee, makes recommendation to the Board concerning the allocation of share options to employees of the Company.
Options under the Option Plan are granted at market value and in the case of executive directors exclusively, and in most instances for senior managers, the options vest and become exercisable on the third anniversary of the relevant grant date.
In limited instances options granted to senior managers vest in equal proportions on the first three anniversaries of the relevant grant date.
Unexercised options expire ten years after the date of grant, unless the relevant employee leaves the Groups employment, in which case the unvested options lapse and any vested options lapse three months after the date that the employment ends.
It is not intended that the Option Plan will be used for future share option grants for executive directors or for members of senior management.
Long-Term Incentive Plan Given the dilutive effect of share options and the increasing disconnect between the financial performance of companies generally and the performance of their share prices in the current turbulent economic times, the Board decided in March 2012, after discussions with certain of its key shareholders and its advisers, New Bridge Street, to adopt a new long-term incentive plan, the Playtech Long Term Incentive Plan 2012.
Under the 2012 Plan, a range of share-based awards can be made to executive directors and senior managers of the Group, including conditional awards, nil-cost options, market value share options or forfeitable share awards.
It is intended that initial awards to executive directors will be in the form of nil cost options and the face value of such awards will be 150% and 100% of salary for the CEO and CFO respectively.
Awards made to executive directors vest on the third anniversary of grant subject to i participants remaining in employment other than in certain good leaver circumstances and ii achievement of challenging performance targets.
Awards that are structured as options can be exercised up to ten years after the date of grant or such shorter period in respect of vested options held by a leaver.
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39 Governance Remuneration Report continued Exercise of any awards granted to executive directors under the 2012 Plan, will be subject to performance conditions.
It is intended that the first awards under the plan will be subject to the achievement of a mixture of performance conditions based in part on total shareholder return relative to a comparator group and part in the growth in earnings per share over the period.
The committee will determine the appropriate targets immediately prior to grant.
Awards made to the executive directors will also be subject to clawback provisions for a period of three years following vesting.
The committee may decide to clawback awards in the event of misconduct or material misstatement of the Groups financial results resulting in an award vesting to a greater degree than would otherwise have been granted.
Awards may be satisfied by the issue of new shares, market purchase shares or may be settled in cash subject to the tax treatment in the hands of the recipient.
Share Ownership Guideline The Board has recently adopted a policy that will require any executive director on exercise of an award under the 2012 Plan, to retain a portion of the net of tax vested shares until he has build-up and retain a shareholding roughly equivalent in value to one times his base salary.
Other Incentive Schemes In December 2009, the Board approved the establishment of a phantom share plan for the senior executives of Video B Holdings Limited Videobet, in order to retain and incentivise the management team.
The overall size of the plan is limited to an amount equal to 2.5 per cent of the share capital of Videobet.
Awards will vest once the Company has received in cash an amount equal to its total investment in Videobet plus an amount equal to base rate plus 10 per cent p. a. compound on such invested amount.
Participants will be able to exercise their awards on a share sale, listing of Videobet or such earlier date as is agreed between the participant and the Company acting through the Remuneration Committee.
No current executive director participates in this plan.
The Company also established an HMRC approved Company Share Option Plan CSOP in 2010, to retain and incentivise key employees based in the UK in the Groups UK businesses.
The rules of the CSOP were approved by HMRC in August 2010.
Under the CSOP options can be granted to UK-based employees up to a maximum of 30,000 and, subject to compliance with the rules of the CSOP, subject only to capital gains tax on any growth in value.
Under the rules of the CSOP options may not be exercised until the third anniversary of grant and will lapse if the employee leaves their employment in the Group, except in certain limited circumstances, such as death or disability.
Directors Service Contracts The service agreements of the executive directors are for an indefinite term and provide for formal notice periods of six months to be served to terminate the agreement, either by the Company or the director.
Set out below are the other key terms of the executive directors terms and conditions of employment: Name Date Termination payment Non-compete Change of control payment Mor Weizer 2.5.
2007 Payment in lieu of notice During employment and None of up to six months basic for six months thereafter salary and benets David Mathewson 25.5.
2011 Payment in lieu of notice During employment and None of up to six months basic for twelve months thereafter salary and benets save that the restriction is six months in the case of customers Ron Homan 1.1.
2013 Payment in lieu of notice During employment and None of up to six months basic for six months thereafter salary and benets Executive directors may also receive a pro-rated annual bonus for the period worked in the financial year up to departure, subject to performance.
In the case of David Mathewson, whose employment ceased on 31 December 2012, he was paid his basic salary, but no other benefits, for his contractual notice period.
The remuneration committee will consider his performance against targets in assessing the appropriate level of bonus payment in respect of the financial year when the bonus payments to other executive directors and senior managers are decided.
In respect of his outstanding share options under the 2005 Plan, in accordance with the terms of the 2005 Plan, the committee has decided that these options may become exercisable for a period of six months following announcement of the 2012 results.
The non-executive directors each have specific letters of appointment, rather than service contracts.
Their remuneration is determined by the Board within limits set by the Articles of Association and is set taking into account market data as obtained from independent non-executive director fee surveys and their responsibilities.
Non-executive directors are appointed generally for an initial term of three years and, under normal circumstances would be expected to serve for additional three year terms, up to a maximum of nine years, subject to satisfactory performance and annual re-election at the Annual General Meeting as required.
40 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Sustainability Accounts The following is a summary of the key terms of the letters of appointment for the non-executive directors: Name Date Term Termination Roger Withers 14.03.06 No stated term but stands for 90 days notice on either side or re-election every three years if not re-elected, disqualification or commits gross misconduct Alan Jackson 14.03.06 No stated term 90 days notice on either side or if not re-elected, disqualification or commits gross misconduct Andrew Thomas 19.06.12 Until third AGM after appointment 120 days notice on either side or if not re-elected, disqualification or commits gross misconduct Andrew Thomas was appointed to his position as a non-executive director on 19 June 2012.
Notwithstanding the terms of the letters of appointment for Roger Withers and Andrew Thomas, all directors will stand for re-election by shareholders on an annual basis in accordance with the Code.
Implementation Report Role and Membership The Remuneration Committee is comprised of three independent non-executive directors.
The committee is chaired by Alan Jackson, the senior independent non-executive director and the other members are Andrew Thomas, who joined on his appointment to the Board in June 2012, and Roger Withers.
Details of attendance at the committee are set out on page 34.
The committee operates within agreed terms of reference detailing its authority and responsibilities.
The committees terms of reference were reviewed at the time of the move to a premium listing and are available for inspection on the Companys website www.
com and include: t Determining and agreeing the policy for the remuneration of the CEO, the Chairman and other senior managers: t Review the broad policy framework for remuneration to ensure it remains appropriate and relevant: t Review the design of and determine targets for any performance-related pay and the annual level of payments under such plans: t Review the design of and approve any changes to long term incentive or option plans: and t Ensure that contractual terms on termination and payments made are fair to the individual and the Company and that failure is not rewarded.
The committee also considers the terms and conditions of employment and overall remuneration of the executive directors, the Company Secretary & Legal Counsel and other key members of executive management and has regard to the Companys overall approach to the remuneration of all employees.
Within this context the remuneration committee determines the overall level of share options, salaries, incentive payments and performance related pay due to the executive directors and senior management.
The committee also determines the performance targets and the extent of their achievement for both annual and long-term incentive awards operated by the Company and affecting the executives.
No director is involved any decisions as to his her own remuneration.
The committee takes advice from both inside and outside the Group on a range of matters, including the scale and composition of the total remuneration package payable to people with similar responsibilities, skills and experience in comparable companies that have extensive operations outside the UK.
During the year, the committee received material assistance and advice from the CEO and from the Company Secretary & Legal Counsel who is also secretary to the committee.
The committee has a planned schedule of at least four meetings throughout the year, with additional meetings held when necessary.
During the year, the committee met six times and these meetings addressed wide variety of issues, including: Month Principal Activity March t Approving the terms of the New Plan for the directors and senior managers t Approving the payment of bonus payments to executives t Instructing Canaccord to undertake a valuation of the Chairmans options using the Black Scholes methodology April t To approve continuation of options granted to good leavers t To approve proposed changes to the rules of the Share Plan so as to allow awards to be settled in cash June t To approve the award of options to key employees of Ash Gaming Limited following its acquisition October t To consider proposals for the structure of incentives to be granted to senior managers under the New Plan and appropriate performance targets November t To agree the variation of commission arrangements for certain members of the senior management team December t To consider and agree terms for the termination of the service agreement of David Mathewson t Approve the proposed package for the appointment of Ron Homan as the new CFO In addition, the remuneration committee met informally and resolved by written resolution to agree to the exercise by the CEO of certain options and the payment to him by the Company of the cash equivalent of the gain on exercising the options, being the closing market value of the Companys ordinary shares on the day immediately prior to the date of exercise of the option, 4.27, less the cost of exercising the options.
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41 Governance Remuneration Report continued External Advisers New Bridge Street a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited is the committees independent adviser.
New Bridge Street does not provide any other services to the Company.
Performance Graph The following graph shows the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance over the past five years: the Companys TSR is compared with a broad equity market index.
The index chosen here is the FTSE350 Travel & Leisure Index, which is considered the most appropriate published index.
160.0 140.0 120.0 100.0 80.0 60.0 40.0 20.0 Dec-07 Jun-08 Dec-08 Jun-09 Dec-09 Jun-10 Dec-10 Jun-11 Dec-11 Jun-12 Dec-12 Playtech FTSE 350 Travel & Leisure rebased Audited Information The following information in this part of the Remuneration Report has been audited by BDO LLP, the Companys auditors.
The Directors emoluments, benefits and shareholdings during the year ended 31 December 2012 were as follows: 1.
Directors Emoluments in euros Total excluding Option 2012 Total Director Salary Bonuses Benets option charges charges emoluments Executive Mor Weizer 571,649 208,518 20,009 800,176 100,402 900,578 David Mathewson 368,384 183,515 76,590 628,489 130,850 759,340 2.
Non-Executive Directors Emoluments in euros Non-Executive Fees 1 Roger Withers 537,668 537,668 537,668 Alan Jackson 185,072 185,072 185,072 2 Andrew Thomas 61,520 61,520 61,520 Notes 1 On 2 May 2012 the Company reached agreement with the Chairman, Roger Withers, to purchase his 300,000 shares under option for a cash payment of 500,000.
The cash payment was determined based on the approximate expected value of the share option using the Black-Scholes formula and taking into account the contribution and time Mr. Withers has devoted to the Company.
2 Andrew Thomas was appointed to the Board on 19 June 2012.
42 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Sustainability Accounts 3.
Annual Bonus In 2012 the Chief Executive Officer and David Mathewson had the opportunity to earn bonuses of 150 per cent and 100 per cent of their respective salary.
The structure of the annual bonus plan was the same as that described in the Policy Report on page 39.
The Committee determined that the bonuses payable for 2012 was 150 per cent of salary for the CEO 100 per cent of the maximum and 75 per cent of salary for David Mathewson.
These bonus payments were determined against corporate financial performance, which was significantly ahead of budget with an adjusted EBITDA of 186.7 million representing a 49 per cent increase on the prior year and 122 per cent of target, and full achievement of personal objectives.
In 2012, the Chief Executive Officer waived his entitlement to 600,000 of bonus.
Termination Payment As disclosed above, David Mathewson was paid a sum of 100,000 in lieu of notice on the termination of his employment on 31 December 2012.
Interests of directors in ordinary shares Ordinary shares As at 31.12.12 As at 31.12.11 No.
Shares Percentage Mor Weizer nil nil David Mathewson nil nil Ron Homan nil nil Roger Withers 19,333 0.008 19,333 0.008 Alan Jackson 5,000 0.002 5,000 0.002 Andrew Thomas 7,500 0.003 n a n a Based on the total issued share capital of 289,316,948 as at 31.12.11.
Based on the total issued share capital of 290,236,870 as at 31.12.12.
There has been no change in the directors beneficial interests between 31 December 2012 and the date of this report.
Table of interests of directors in options Number of Options at Number of options 1 January at 31 December 2012 or date of Exercised during 2012 or cessation Earliest Expiry of appointment Date of grant Exercise price the year of employment exercise date exercise period Mor Weizer 2 200,000 6 February 2006 2.55 200,000 2 200,000 11 October 2006 1.72 200,000 600,000 16 May 2007 3.79 NIL 600,000 16 May 2008 16 May 2017 200,000 6 November 2009 3.70 NIL 200,000 6 November 2012 6 November 2019 3 David Mathewson 100,000 26 August 2011 3.03 NIL 100,000 15 March 2013 30 June 2013 Notes: 1 Share options are granted for nil consideration.
2 The share options were exercised on 27 December 2012 and the share price on that date was 423p.
3 The Remuneration Committee on behalf of the Board have agreed as part of the arrangements for the termination of his contract that David Mathewson may retain these options and exercise them following the end of the Companys close period for a period of six months following his departure.
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43 Governance Remuneration Report continued The closing share price on 31 December 2012 was 426.6p and the share price ranged from 277.3p and 432.7p during the year.
The options granted under the 2005 Plan have not been subject to performance conditions, as noted in the corporate governance report.
It is intended that any awards made to executive directors and members of the senior management team of the Company under either the new plan or the 2005 plan will be subject to the achievement of a mixture of performance conditions based in part on total shareholder return and part in the growth in earnings per share over the period, as the Remuneration Committee determines to be appropriate.
At 31 December 2012 no awards had been made under the 2012 Plan.
None of the non-executive directors have any options over shares in the Company.
By order of the Board Alan Jackson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 14 March 2013 44 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
