38 Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT continued Climate change and greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas emissions associated with hydrocarbon combustion at our operations amounted to 890,809 tonnes in 2012 2011: 615,000 tonnes.
This increase in total emissions was largely due to a full year of production from our Gajah Baru and Chim So operations in Asia, versus only a limited number of months in 2011.
Our operated emissions intensity decreased from 305 tonnes per thousand tonnes of production in 2011 to 242 in 2012.
This was mainly due to reduced flaring at Chim So versus 2011.
Additional contributing factors included a reduction in development drilling and increased overall production from both our Asian and North Sea assets.
Our Anoa and Gajah Baru facilities in Indonesia delivered strong performance with an average intensity of 175 tonnes per thousand tonnes of production 2011: 139 tonnes and 119 tonnes per thousand tonnes of production 2011: 228 tonnes respectively.
Our performance at Gajah Baru was lower than the 159 tonnes industry average published by OGP.
Despite the overall reduction of around 20 per cent, we failed to meet our intensity target, mainly due to unexpected flaring at Chim So, in Vietnam.
We calculate our greenhouse gas CO equivalent or CO e emissions both for operated assets and on an 2 2 equity basis for production across our global portfolio.
Greenhouse gas intensity from flaring and fuel gas combustion associated with our full equity portfolio amounted to 170 tonnes per thousand tonnes of production 2011: 172 tonnes.
Spills and discharges The total volume of produced water discharged from our operations in 2012 amounted to 3,905,611 tonnes 2011: 2,055,878 tonnes.
Over 90 per cent of the total was produced by our North Sea operations, with the increase in 2012 being largely due to the Balmoral field after a period of shut-down in 2011.
The average oil in produced water decreased slightly from 13.9 parts per million weight ppm-wt in 2011 to 10.0 ppm-wt in 2012.
This decrease in the oil concentration of produced water was mainly due to a reduction at Balmoral that averaged 10.3 ppm-wt 2011: 14.0 ppm-wt.
The average concentration of oil in produced water discharged by our Anoa facility in Indonesia also reduced to 10.7 ppm-wt from 13.3 ppm-wt in 2011.
In 2012, there were 13 spills to the environment 2011: 20 spills, 11 of these were hydrocarbon spills 2011: 16 spills, eight of which were upsets of the produced water system at Balmoral in the North Sea.
The largest of these was three barrels 2011: 5.4 barrels.
The total volume of spills amounted to 0.8 tonnes 2011: 2.7 tonnes : 100 per cent 2011: 90 per cent of which was associated with spills at our production operations.
There were zero hydrocarbon spills at our drilling activities in 2012.
We maintain oil spill contingency plans for each of our operations and have ongoing contracts with oil spill response specialists to provide support in the unlikely event of a major incident.
Two other chemical spills occurred at our drilling operations in 2012 2011: four spills totalling 0.02 barrels and 0.002 tonnes 2011: 1.3 tonnes.
Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements 39 Community investment OUR REVISED COMMUNITY INVESTMENT POLICY RECOGNISES THE VALUE OF BUILDING POSITIVE EXTERNAL RELATIONSHIPS AND PARTNERSHIPS WITH COMMUNITIES, GOVERNMENTS, NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANISATIONS NGOs, JOINT VENTURE PARTNERS AND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS.
It also includes the need to: maintain timely, constructive and transparent ongoing engagement with all stakeholders: treat neighbours with respect and understanding, acknowledging community governance and seeking free and informed consent prior to initiating operations that have a potentially significant social impact on the community: work to achieve a net positive socio-economic impact on local communities, promoting opportunities which enhance sustainable benefit: support the socio-economic sustainability and wellbeing of communities through local procurement and other engagement with local business: invest in well-planned social projects that support the development priorities of host communities and governments, and seek to ensure that these are implemented in a way that leads to enduring benefit: provide fair and adequate compensation for any losses for which we are liable: provide local communities access to appropriate grievance mechanisms: and encourage joint venture partners to adopt the principles in this policy.
This Community Investment Policy is supported by a community investment management system that is aligned with IPIECA standards and that facilitates the systematic identification, management, evaluation and budgeting of disbursements and engagements in host countries.
The procedures in this system have been available to local business units via our business management system since late 2010.
No non-compliances with this policy were reported in 2012.
Increased community investment in 2012 All of our operations are supported by local community engagement and development programmes.
In 2012, Premier disbursed a total of US$674,000 on charitable donations and community projects 2011: US$427,000.
Approximately 40 per cent 2011: 30 per cent of this was disbursed in Indonesia on longstanding community and environmental projects.
The progressive increase in our community investment reflects the inclusion of charitable donations from our London, Norway and Singapore offices, as well as our more mature operations in country.
We expect these investments to increase as Premier develops new upstream production operations in Indonesia, Vietnam, the North Sea and the Falkland Islands.
40 Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements BOARD OF DIRECTORS Robin Allan Joe Darby Tony Durrant Neil Hawkings Jane Hinkley David Lindsell Simon Lockett Andrew Lodge Professor David Roberts Michel Romieu Mike Welton Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements 41 Robin Allan 53, joined Premier from Burmah Oil in July 1986, working initially as a geologist.
After technical and new venture roles he spent six years in South East Asia, initially managing Premiers Asian existing and new venture business and later becoming Premiers Country Manager in Indonesia.
He became a member of the Premier Board in December 2003 as Director of Business Development.
Mr Allan spent three years in Asia as Director Asia, before returning to London in October 2012 to take up the role of Director, Business Units.
Joe Darby 64, joined Premiers Board as a non-executive director in September 2007.
Mr Darby has over 40 years of experience in the energy sector, including eight years with Shell Petroleum before becoming Managing Director of Thomson North Sea Ltd.
He has held a number of senior roles, including Chief Executive, with LASMO plc.
Mr Darby is a non-executive director of Alkane Energy plc and Gulfsands Petroleum plc, and has held non-executive roles at Nordaq Energy plc, British Nuclear Fuels plc, Mowlem plc and Centurion Energy Inc.
He was Chairman of Mowlem plc 2005-2006 and Faroe Petroleum plc 2003-2007.
Mr Darby is Premiers senior independent director, and is a member of Premiers Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Tony Durrant 54, joined Premier in June 2005.
After qualifying as a chartered accountant with Arthur Andersen, he joined Lehman Brothers in London, initially as an oil sector analyst.
He moved to the investment banking division of Lehman in 1987 and from 1997 was a Managing Director and Head of the European Natural Resources Group.
In this role, he managed both client relationships and numerous transactions for a variety of European and North American clients.
He joined the Premier Board in July 2005 as Finance Director.
In October 2012 he joined the Board of Greenergy Fuels Holdings Limited as a non-executive director and is Chairman of their Audit and Risk Committee.
Neil Hawkings 51, joined Premier in May 2005 after more than 20 years with ConocoPhillips where he worked in a variety of engineering, commercial and management roles around the world, undertaking assignments in the UK, Dubai and Indonesia.
He joined the Premier Board in March 2006 as Operations Director.
Jane Hinkley 62, joined Premiers Board in September 2010 as a non-executive director.
Ms Hinkley is a qualified chartered accountant with executive experience primarily in international shipping, having held managing directorships at Navion Shipping AS and Gotaas-Larsen Shipping Corporation.
She is a non-executive director of Vesuvius plc, which supplies primarily the global steel and foundry industries, and has been an independent director on the board of Teekay GP LLC, an international provider of marine transportation services for LNG, LPG and crude oil, since 2005.
Ms Hinkley has previously held a non-executive role at Revus Energy ASA, a Norwegian exploration and production company.
Ms Hinkley is the Chairman of Premiers Remuneration Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee.
David Lindsell 65, joined Premiers Board in January 2008 as a non-executive director.
He was a partner at Ernst & Young LLP for nearly 30 years and has extensive experience across a range of industry sectors, with a strong knowledge of the oil and gas sector.
Mr Lindsell is currently a non-executive director of Drax Group plc and was Deputy Chairman of the Financial Reporting Review Panel 2008-2012.
Mr Lindsell is the Chairman of Premiers Audit and Risk Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Simon Lockett 48, Chief Executive, joined Premier in January 1994 from Shell and has worked in a variety of roles for Premier, including the management of investor relations, as Commercial Manager in Indonesia and as Country Manager in Albania.
He became a member of the Premier Board in December 2003 as Operations Director.
He was appointed Chief Executive in March 2005.
Mr Lockett is a member of Premiers Nomination Committee.
Andrew Lodge 56, has been Exploration Director of Premier since April 2009.
Prior to joining Premier, Mr Lodge was Vice President Exploration at Hess, where he was responsible for Europe, North Africa, Asia and Australia for nine years.
Previously, he was Vice President Exploration, Asset Manager and Group Exploration Advisor for BHP Petroleum, based in London and Australia.
Prior to joining BHP Petroleum, he worked for BP as a geophysicist.
Mr Lodge is a non-executive director of Egdon Resources plc.
Professor David Roberts 69, joined Premier in June 2006 as a non-executive director.
Professor Roberts has over 30 years experience in all aspects of exploration worldwide and extensive knowledge of deep water areas, sedimentary basins, stratigraphy and prospect assessment.
He spent 22 years with BP in a number of technical roles, including Global Exploration Adviser and Distinguished Exploration Adviser.
Professor Roberts is a non-executive director of Medserv plc and has established his own geoscience consultancy.
He is a visiting professor and fellow of Royal Holloway, University of London, the University of Southampton and IFP School in Paris.
Professor Roberts is a member of Premiers Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Michel Romieu 73, joined Premiers Board as a non-executive director in January 2008.
Mr Romieu has over 30 years experience in the international energy sector, including 25 years with the Elf Group, where he held several senior positions including Chief Executive of Elf UK and the groups gas division.
He was elected President of the UK Offshore Operators Association for the year 1995, and held the position of Director for Gas of CRE, the French energy regulator, from 2000 to 2003.
He has established his own consultancy specialising in providing advice to the gas industry, and is a lecturer at the French Petroleum Institute.
Mr Romieu is also President of Uprigaz.
He is a member of Premiers Audit and Risk and Nomination Committees.
Mike Welton 66, joined Premiers Board in June 2009 as a non-executive director and became Chairman in October 2009.
Mr Welton is a director of Morrison Utility Services and High Speed Two, the government owned LLC set up to examine high speed rail connections between London and the West Midlands.
He sits on the advisory board of Montrose Associates and Alexander Proudfoot.
Mr Welton was previously Chairman of Southern Water Services Ltd 2008-2012, Hanson plc 2005-2007, the Turkish British Business Council and the UK Governments Railway Sector Advisory Group.
He was also Chief Executive of Balfour Beatty plc 1999-2004.
Mr Welton is the Chairman of Premiers Nomination Committee.
Directors Report: Governance 42 Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The company is required to make certain statements relating to the way it is governed as laid down in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
This report describes the manner in which the company has applied the main principles of governance set out in the Code and complied with the Code provisions.
It is the Boards view that the company has fully complied with the Code throughout 2012.
While the Board supports the value of the Code, it does not believe that good governance can be defined merely in terms of compliance with a set of rules.
The Board is committed to high standards of governance and aims to create a culture which demands the same commitment and performance in all our business activities.
This is enshrined in our Code of Conduct which was updated and rolled out to our employees in 2011.
The Board The role of the Board One major purpose of the Board is to ensure that the companys strategic objectives are properly pursued and that the major business risks are actively monitored and managed.
This goes beyond regulatory compliance and puts the interests of our shareholders as the Boards primary focus.
The Board is responsible for overall group strategy, acquisition and divestment policy, approval of major capital expenditures, the overall group debt and equity structure and consideration of significant financing matters.
The Board has continued to focus its efforts in 2012 on strategic issues which will create shareholder value, monitoring performance against agreed objectives and planning future business opportunities.
Board composition The Board of Directors comprises the Chairman, Chief Executive, four other executive directors and five independent nonexecutive directors.
Biographical details of each, including membership of Board committees are set out in the Board of Directors section of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Details of the executive directors service contracts and the non-executive directors letters of appointment are laid out in the Remuneration Report.
Chairman and Chief Executive The Chairmans role is part-time and he is a non-executive director.
His key responsibility is the leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
Between Board meetings the Chairman is responsible for ensuring the integrity and effectiveness of the Board Executive relationship.
This is effected through meetings, as well as contact with other Board members, shareholders, joint venture partners and host governments.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the operational management of the business, developing strategy in consultation with the Board and then implementing such strategy.
Non-executive directors The non-executive directors bring independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy and resources, including key appointments and standards of conduct.
The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to challenge independently and constructively the performance of the executive management and to monitor the performance of the management team in the delivery of the agreed objectives and targets.
In meeting this responsibility, the Chairman and the non-executive directors meet periodically without the executive directors present, and the non-executive directors meet once a year without the Chairman.
We require that our non-executive directors are free from any relationship or circumstances that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board considers each of the non-executive directors to be independent in character and judgement.
Non-executive directors are appointed for a specified term of three years subject to annual re-election and to Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of a director.
The terms and conditions of their appointment are made available for inspection.
All non-executive directors undertake that they will have sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities effectively and any significant commitments are disclosed to the Board prior to appointment.
Changes to such commitments are disclosed to the Board on an ongoing basis.
B Bo oa ar rd d c co om mp po os siit tiio on n B Bo oa ar rd d e ex xp pe erience rience Length of tenur Length of tenure e O Oiill & & G & Gas E En ne er rg gy y 0 - 3 ye 0 - 3 ye 3 years Exe Exec c cu ut tive 18% d diir re ecto ctors 27% 27% 55% 45% 55% F Fiin na a an nc ce 4 - 6 ye 4 - 6 ye 6 ars N No on n n- -e ex xecutive 27% d diir re ecto ctors 46% Oth Othe er r industry 7 - 10 ye 7 - 10 y 0 y ars Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements 43 The Board continued Senior independent director Mr Joe Darby is the companys senior independent non-executive director.
He is available to shareholders who have concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with the Chairman or Chief Executive.
Appointments and development Premier is an international business which has to manage a variety of political, technical and commercial risks.
It is therefore important that the Board contains the appropriate mix of skills and experience to meet these challenges.
To this end, the Nomination Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary.
In selecting new directors, the Committee prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
How the Board operates The Board meets at least eight times each year and in addition a regular update conference call takes place in the months when no formal meeting is scheduled.
The agenda for each Board meeting is set by the Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
Board members receive a monthly report of the companys activities which incorporates an update on progress against objectives and the management of business risks.
The Board has a formal schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board, a copy of which can be found on the companys website www.
The schedule is reviewed by the Board regularly.
Key matters reserved are the consideration and approval of: Corporate Strategy Overall direction and strategy of the business New country and or business entry Acquisition or disposal of interests Finance Group debt and equity structure Budget Expenditure Major capital expenditure and budgets Development plans and projects Major acquisition Risk Management Recognising high impact business risks and risk mitigating strategies Internal control systems in respect of finance, operations and Health, Safety, Environment and Security HSES Corporate Governance The groups corporate governance and compliance arrangements Succession planning Appointment and removal of directors and officers of the Board and appointments Appointment and removal of external auditor, brokers and advisers to the company Delegated authorities Board committees The Board has established Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Each committee has formal terms of reference approved by the Board which can be found on the companys website www.
The Company Secretary provides advice and support to the Board and all Board committees.
Board committees are authorised to engage the services of external advisers as they deem necessary.
44 Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Delegated authorities continued The number of meetings of the Board and its committees during 2012, and individual attendance by directors, is shown below: Audit Board and Risk Remuneration Nomination 1 Number of meetings 847 1 Attendance: R A Allan 8 8 J Darby 8 8 4 4 7 7 1 1 A R C Durrant 8 8 N Hawkings 8 8 I J Hinkley 8 8 7 7 1 1 D C Lindsell 8 8 4 4 6 7 1 1 S C Lockett 8 8 1 1 A G Lodge 8 8 D G Roberts 8 8 6 7 1 1 M Romieu 8 8 4 4 1 1 M W Welton 7 8 1 1 Notes: 1.
There were six scheduled meetings of the Remuneration Committee during the year.
The remaining meeting only attended by Ms I J Hinkley and Mr J Darby was called to approve the detail of arrangements approved in principle by a prior scheduled meeting of the Remuneration Committee.
Executive Committee and management structure The Board has delegated the day-to-day running of the group to the Chief Executive who has established an Executive Committee EXCO to assist him in this role.
During the year the structure of EXCO was enhanced with the creation of three new roles: The role of Director, Business Units was created to manage performance of all Business Units and ensure coordination with the functions.
The creation of this role has removed the need for a layer of management at the regional business unit level: The role of Strategy and Commercial Manager was created to ensure that the groups longer term strategic needs are properly addressed: and The role of Corporate Services Director was created to bring together a number of the critical service functions.
The responsibilities of EXCO include the development of group strategy for approval by the Board, portfolio management and the delivery of performance against the targets set by the Board.
Delegation of authority Responsibility levels are communicated throughout the group as part of corporate accounting and through an authorisation manual which sets out, inter alia, delegated authority levels, segregation of duties and other control procedures.
This manual was updated in 2012 to reflect the new organisational structure and the increased size of the group.
Board performance evaluation The Board believes that there is benefit in the periodic involvement of an independent external facilitator in the annual Board evaluation process as this brings independent perspective.
It has been the Boards practice to engage such an external facilitator every two years and in normal circumstances an externally facilitated evaluation would have taken place in 2012.
However, as the Board spent considerable time on strategic issues in 2012, it was decided that an external evaluation will be of more value next year when the new strategy and organisation have bedded down and thus an internal evaluation process was carried out in 2012.
The Board and Committee evaluations were facilitated by the Chairman.
The evaluation comprised a series of questions on major issues which were used as the basis for the one-to-one interviews by the Chairman with all directors.
The interviews covered a number of key areas including strategy, succession planning, Board size and composition, the roles and responsibilities of the Board and its Committees, risk management and the relationship between the Board and management.
The results of the reviews were considered by the Chairman and the Committee chairmen and were then discussed with the relevant Committees and collectively by the Board as a whole.
The performance of individual non-executive directors was evaluated by the Chairman, with input from the Committee chairmen and the other directors.
The performance of the Chief Executive and other executive directors was evaluated by the Chairman and non-executive directors.
No major issues arose from the evaluation process and the directors have concluded that the Board and its committees operate effectively.
Recommendations were made to further enhance the performance and effectiveness of the Board and a process of continuous improvement led by the Chairman is in place.
Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements 45 Induction, information and support New directors receive a full induction to the company.
This consists of information covering the operations of the Board as well as meetings with the Board, Chief Executive and other executive directors.
All non-executives have direct contact with the companys senior management between Board meetings and also visit the companys operations in order to familiarise themselves with its activities and to meet and engage with staff.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to meet with new directors upon request or at the next Annual General Meeting AGM following their appointment.
The company has directors and officers liability insurance in place, and details of the policy are given to new directors on appointment.
Formal procedures are in place to enable individual Board members to take independent advice where appropriate.
Conflicts of interest A director has a duty to avoid a situation in which he or she has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the company.
Formal procedures are in place to ensure the Boards powers of authorisation of conflicts or potential conflicts of interest of directors are operated effectively.
The Board determined that during 2012 these procedures were enforced and adhered to appropriately.
Risk management and internal controls in Premier The corporate governance process in Premier is designed to determine the nature and level of risk that the company is willing to take in pursuit of its strategy and to ensure that any risks taken are soundly managed and that the system of internal controls is effective.
Any system of internal control can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that material financial irregularities will be detected or that the risk of failure to achieve business objectives is eliminated.
Business management system Internal controls within Premier are governed by the Business Management System BMS.
This system is composed of the policies, standards, procedures, processes and guidelines for every function required to carry out Premiers business including Risk, HSES, Corporate Social Responsibility, Operations, Exploration, Business Development, Finance and other business support services.
Corporate group functional management systems are complemented by local management systems within the business units which are designed to supplement corporate policies, standards, procedures, processes and guidelines with those specifically required in order to operate and manage the business under local conditions and in compliance with local laws and regulations.
The BMS is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to meet our business objectives.
The effectiveness of the BMS is a function of both the adequacy of the system and compliance with the system.
Premiers audit and review programme includes specific scope to review adequacy of and compliance by component business unit and functional management systems at appropriate regular intervals.
The annual cycle of monitoring in Premier culminates in the completion of declarations by business unit and functional management confirming compliance with the groups BMS as well as identifying enhancements as part of a continuous process for improvement of the effectiveness of management systems.
Risk management Premier believes that risk management is just part of good management which leads to quality decision making and achievement of targets for growth of the business.
The risk management process is central to Premiers BMS.
Since the appointment of a Group Audit and Risk Manager in 2010, Premiers risk management system has been further developed in accordance with the risk management principles and guidelines of ISO 31000 Risk Management Principles and Guidelines.
The processes developed by the company cover all key elements of ISO 31000: Architecture Strategy Core process Continuous improvement cycle Risk protocols 46 Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Risk management continued In early 2012, Det Norske Veritas DNV carried out an assessment of the extent to which Premiers risk management system is aligned with ISO 31000 and found that Premier had a well structured system of risk management that was strongly aligned.
The core process for risk management lies at the heart of the system framework: Establish context Monitor and Risk assessment review Risk treatment This core process is used to manage the spectrum of risks which Premier face from strategic, geopolitical and other external risks to operational, financial and organisational risk.
The context for risk management is established by development and communication of strategy, growth targets, team performance deliverables and KPIs.
A systematic process for identification and assessment of risk is undertaken across the company business units and functions.
Regular workshops are undertaken with input from independent consultants with specialist knowledge and from dialogue with our partners to assist with risk identification and assessment, and risks are reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that new risks or exposures as a result of changes in the business or the business environment are captured.
A standard matrix of impact versus likelihood is used to assess risks at all levels in the organisation.
Appropriate consideration is given to risk dependency and amalgamation of similar specific risks across the organisation.
Risks are categorised according to a scale of Major, Medium, Minor and escalated to the appropriate level.
Risk treatment includes risk acceptance or tolerance and active risk reduction measures.
Risk appetite objectives are defined and action plans are implemented.
Particular attention is given to safety and environmental factors to ensure that residual risks are at a level that is as low as reasonably practical.
The status of risks and progress with risk treatment plans are monitored continuously and reviewed periodically via performance reviews, workshops, audits and risk assessments.
The architecture of the organisation provides the framework for defining the accountability and responsibility for risk identification and management and links the Board and Audit and Risk Committee to the Executive Committee and functional and business unit management structure and enables risks to be escalated and managed at the appropriate level.
The Group Audit and Risk Manager is responsible for the risk management system and the overall running of the process.
The risk protocols are the policy, procedures and processes documented as part of the risk management system and key tools used in the process.
The corporate risk register is the primary tool for risk management in Premier.
The register is a web-based tool which is updated at regular intervals.
The register facilitates recording of functional and business unit risks, together with their assessment, definition of existing and new treatment plans for control and mitigation and assignment of responsibility at the appropriate level in the organisation.
A cycle of continuous improvement to the risk management system within the organisation is adopted and regularly reviewed with both the Executive Committee via regional and functional performance reviews and the Audit and Risk Committee.
As already noted, Premiers risk management process has been developed significantly over the past three years in accordance with the risk management principles and guidelines of ISO 31000.
Initiatives are in hand to further embed risk management in the groups culture and business processes.
Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements 47 Risk management continued Audit and review The effective operation of internal control procedures is reviewed by planned audits.
An annual programme of audit and review is agreed between functional and business unit management and approved by Audit and Risk Committee.
The programme adopts a risk based focus and includes audit of management system effectiveness and control as well as targeting key operational, financial and organisational delivery milestones.
A process of business control reviews has been developed and implemented across the group.
This process is designed, inter alia, to provide assurance to the Board that Premier is embedding effective risk management into its operations.
Significant findings from each review are presented to the Audit and Risk Committee.
A rolling three-year plan to cover all operations is in place.
In addition, where the company is the operator, audits of joint venture operations are carried out by our joint venture partners.
Where one of our partners is the operator, we participate in audits of these joint venture partners.
The Business Management System, risk management processes and programme of audits and reviews provide the Board with reasonable assurance that appropriate controls are in place to provide effective management of business risks and to safeguard the groups assets from inappropriate use or from loss and fraud.
Communication with shareholders Communication with shareholders is given significant attention.
Extensive information about the groups activities is provided in the Annual Report and Financial Statements, the Interim Report, Trading Updates and Interim Management Statements, all of which are available to shareholders.
There is regular dialogue with institutional investors through meetings, presentations and conferences, general presentations to analysts and investors for the full-year and half-yearly results which are broadcast live via the companys website as well as other ad hoc investor events.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director, who are the directors primarily responsible for dealing with shareholders, ensure that other members of the Board receive full reports of these discussions.
com also provides detailed information on the groups activities.
In accordance with current regulations, the company uses its website as its default method of publication for statutory documents to reduce printing costs and help benefit the environment.
All shareholders are offered the choice of receiving shareholder documentation, including the Annual Report, electronically or in paper format, as well as the choice of submitting proxy votes either electronically or by post.
All new shareholders receive hard copies of statutory documents until they elect, or are deemed to have elected, otherwise.
The company promotes the use of online shareholder services at www.
On this website, shareholders are able to access their shareholding and to update their address or submit queries on their account directly to the companys Registrars.
Shareholders also have the ability to vote online prior to the 2013 AGM.
The share portal also encourages shareholders to register to receive communications by e-mail, rather than by post, thus further reducing the number of documents printed and distributed.
Shareholders who have registered receive an e-mail notifying them when the company has added a statutory document to its website.
For each new registration processed, the company will donate 1 to PURE the Clean Planet Trust, a UK charity dedicated to combating climate change.
The company has posted guidelines on its website, advising shareholders of how to recognise and deal with potential share scams.
Shareholders are advised to be extremely wary of any unsolicited advice or offers, and to only deal with financial services firms that are authorised by the FSA.
More information can be found in the Shareholder Information section of the Investors area of the companys website: www.
Enquiries from individuals on matters relating to their shareholding and the business of the group are welcomed and are dealt with in a timely manner.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM to discuss the progress of the group.
By order of the Board S C Huddle Company Secretary 20 March 2013 48 Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT As Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee it is my responsibility to ensure that the Committee is rigorous and effective in its role of monitoring: the integrity of the companys financial statements, and other formal announcements relating to the companys financial performance and the significant financial reporting judgements they contain: the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems, including the results of the programme of reviews of these systems and managements response to the review findings: the effectiveness and objectivity of the companys Group Audit and Risk function: the appropriateness of the companys relationship with the external auditor and the David Lindsell effectiveness and objectivity of the audit process: Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee the enforcement of the companys code of conduct and the adequacy and security of its whistleblowing procedure.
The terms of reference of the Committee are reviewed annually by the Committee and then by the Board, and are available on the companys website www.
Throughout 2012 the Committee consisted of myself, Joe Darby and Michel Romieu all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
The Board is satisfied that the membership of the Committee meets the requirement for recent and relevant financial experience.
The meetings of the Committee are normally attended by the Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, the Corporate Services Director, the Group Audit and Risk Manager and representatives of the external auditor.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Other executive directors or senior managers are required to attend when significant risk management or control issues relating to their area of responsibility are considered by the Committee.
The Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any matters on which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and make recommendations on the steps to be taken.
Meetings The Committee is required to meet at least three times per year and has an agenda linked to events in the companys financial calendar.
Activities during the year The Committee met four times in 2012 and has met twice in 2013 to date.
Its January and March 2012 meetings focused primarily on the status of the 2011 risk management and internal control reviews, the 2012 plan for such reviews, and the 2011 full-year results and Annual Report and Financial Statements together with the Committees annual review of the effectiveness of internal controls.
At its June meeting the Committee considered the results of the group internal control reviews carried out in the first half of the year, together with accounting and reporting issues relating to the half-year results, and in August it reviewed the half-year results.
In January 2013 it considered accounting and reporting issues relating to the full-year results, reviewed the status of the 2012 risk management and internal control reviews, focusing on the significant findings and actions, and reviewed and approved the 2013 audit plan for such reviews.
In March it reviewed the 2012 full-year results, the Annual Report and Financial Statements and its annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls to enable the Board to make its statement on internal control in the Corporate Governance Report.
Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements 49 Activities during the year continued More specifically, the responsibilities of the Committee were discharged as follows: The Committee reviewed the groups risk management process designed to identify and mitigate the key risks facing the group.
There is an ongoing process of refinement and embedding of risk management best practice through the group in accordance with the principles and guidelines set out in ISO 31000.
In particular, following the positive findings of the external review carried out by Det Norske Veritas in early 2012, the Committee noted improved reporting of findings and implementation of control improvements arising from reviews of the risk management and internal control systems.
These measures will continue to be developed and reported on to the Committee through 2013 and beyond.
We intend during 2013 to invite DNV to re-validate their 2012 assessment and provide a progress report on the development and embedding of risk management process in the group: The Corporate Risk Register CRR is the principal record of information about identified risks and the controls in place to mitigate them, at departmental, asset project, business unit and corporate function levels.
Ongoing development and refinement of the CRR during 2012 has enabled risks and mitigating processes to be described more completely and the programme of financial and operational control reviews to be prioritised further against the most significant group business risks as ranked in the CRR.
CRR functionality has also been improved to allow risks assessed to have a pre-selected potential impact which can be measured in terms of effect on net present value or other severity of consequence to be flagged and referred automatically up to the next level s in the organisation, enabling more effective top-down monitoring of risk: Some 36 reviews of aspects of risk management and internal controls in operations and corporate functions were carried out during the year.
In reviewing the findings from these reviews, the Committee noted with approval that reporting had become more directed towards the groups major risks, allowing the Committee to focus on the key issues and challenges facing the group.
Recommendations to improve internal controls and or to mitigate risks were agreed with the relevant business unit or corporate function management after each review and progress in implementing the recommendations was monitored by the Group Audit and Risk Manager: The group continues to use both Premier staff with the necessary expertise and experience and third-party specialists to carry out the programme of review.
In addition the group obtains independent confirmation of the effectiveness of internal controls from a variety of external sources, including joint venture and governmental financial and operational audits: The Committee reviewed the 2012 half-year and full-year financial results announcements and draft 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements with the Finance Director and Group Financial Controller and considered the findings from the external auditors review of the interim results and their audit of the 2012 financial statements.
The Committee considered in particular the significant assumptions, estimates and forecasts used in measuring items in the financial statements, including future oil and gas price assumptions, oil and gas reserves estimates, fair valuation of assets for the EnCore acquisition and decommissioning cost estimates, together with the financial statement items directly or indirectly affected by them such as the recoverability of producing and exploration and evaluation assets, deferred tax assets and depletion, depreciation and amortisation charges.
The Committee noted that no significant deficiencies in the financial reporting system were identified by the external auditor in the course of their audit.
The Committee also reviewed the narrative in the Annual Report and Financial Statements, in particular Section 1 Directors Report: Performance, to assess whether the narrative is consistent with the accounting information in the financial statements: the fee proposals for the external audit and half-yearly review were considered and agreed, and the Committee reviewed the scope and fees for non-audit assignments awarded to the external auditor to satisfy itself that the assignments concerned did not give rise to threats to the auditors independence and objectivity: the performance and effectiveness of the Committee was reviewed as part of the Board performance evaluation process.
The Committee was considered to be operating effectively and in accordance with the Financial Reporting Council Guidance on Audit Committees: and the Committee met with the external auditor in the absence of management in March and no matters of significance were drawn to the Committees attention at this meeting.
50 Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT continued Group Audit and Risk function We reported last year that the role of Group Audit and Risk Manager, which was created in 2010, had evolved to the point where the Committee believed that the company had a function substantially equivalent to internal audit.
The Group Audit and Risk function has developed further during 2012 and the Committee now considers it to be fully equivalent to an internal audit function.
The Committee approves the appointment or termination of appointment of the Group Audit and Risk Manager.
External auditor Deloitte LLP Deloitte was initially appointed as external auditor of the company in 2004.
The Committee regularly reviews the issue of the independence of the external auditor.
This review considers the overall relationship between the auditor and the company, based on feedback from the companys finance team and from the auditor, and the nature and extent of non-audit services provided by the auditor, and takes account of the safeguards established by the auditor against loss of audit independence, including rotation of the audit partner and other key members of the audit team.
The Committee believes that in certain limited circumstances non-audit work may be carried out by the external auditor.
The allocation of non-audit work is considered by reference to the companys policy on the provision of non-audit services by the auditor, which can be found on the companys website.
This policy is aimed at ensuring their continued independence.
The use of the external auditor for services relating to accounting systems or financial statements is not permitted, nor are various other services which could give rise to conflicts of interest or other threats to the auditors objectivity that cannot be reduced to an acceptable level by applying safeguards.
The Committee believes that there is non-audit work such as certain assurance and advisory services that may be best performed by the auditor as a result of their unique knowledge of the company.
Any material non-audit work of this nature requires approval by the Committee.
The policy and overall fees paid to our auditor are also reviewed on an annual basis by the Committee.
Deloitte are required to confirm to the Committee that they have both the appropriate independence and objectivity to allow them to continue to serve the members of the company.
The Committee also requires the external auditor to confirm that in providing non-audit services, they comply with the Ethical Standards for auditor issued by the UK Auditing Practices Board.
This confirmation was received for 2012.
In accordance with the Ethical Standards for auditor, the audit engagement partner rotates at least every five years.
The current audit engagement partner is David Paterson who has been in the role since the auditors limited review of the 2012 half-year results.
The Committee reviews the expertise, performance and effectiveness of the auditor.
On the basis of the reviews carried out, the Committee recommended to the Board that it should propose the reappointment of Deloitte as the external auditor of the company.
By order of the Board D C Lindsell Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee 20 March 2013 Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements 51 COMPANY RISK FACTORS Premiers business may be impacted by various risks leading to failure to achieve strategic targets for growth, loss of financial standing, cash flow and earnings, and reputation.
Not all of these risks are wholly within the companys control and the company may be affected by risks which are not yet manifest or reasonably foreseeable.
Effective risk management is critical to achieving our strategic objectives and protecting our personnel, assets, the communities where we operate and with whom we interact and our reputation.
Premier therefore has a comprehensive approach to risk management as set out in more detail in the Corporate Governance Report.
A critical part of the risk management process is to assess the impact and likelihood of risks occurring so that appropriate mitigation plans can be developed and implemented.
Risk severity matrices are developed across Premiers business to facilitate assessment of risk.
The specific risks identified by departments, project and asset teams, business units and corporate functions are consolidated and amalgamated to provide an oversight of key risk factors at each level from operations through business unit management to Executive Committee and Board level.
For all the known risks facing the business, Premier attempts to minimise the likelihood and mitigate the impact.
According to the nature of the risk, Premier may elect to take or tolerate risk, treat risk with controls and mitigating actions, transfer risk to third parties or terminate risk by ceasing particular activities or operations.
Premier has a zero tolerance to financial fraud or ethics non-compliance, and ensures that HSES risks are managed to levels that are as low as reasonably practicable, whilst managing exploration and development risks on a portfolio basis.
The key risk factors identified from this approach are represented in the matrix below and the accompanying table summarises their potential impacts and our approach to managing them.
The assessment of the impact and likelihood takes into account the risk mitigation measures currently applied.
Likelihood Rare Low Medium High 1 Commodity Not significant price volatility 2 Production and Low development delivery Political and fiscal Production and Commodity Medium development price volatility delivery Financial discipline and Organisation governance Joint venture capability High partner Exploration alignment HSES Extreme Explanation of Risk Factor Movements compared with 2011 Annual Report 1 Impact on balance sheet from new operational activity 2 Ageing assets, maturing matured reservoirs Impact 52 Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements COMPANY RISK FACTORS continued Key risk factor Risk detail How is it managed?
Health, safety, Major process safety incident or operational Comprehensive HSES and operations environment and accident, natural disasters, pandemics, social management systems including emergency security HSES unrest, civil war.
response and oil spill response capability and asset integrity.
Consequences may include accidents resulting in loss of life, injury and or Active security monitoring and management and significant pollution of the local environment, regular testing of business continuity plans.
destruction of facilities and disruption to Learning from company and third-party incidents.
Production and Uncertain geology and reservoir Geoscience and reservoir engineering development delivery performance leading to lower production management systems, including rigorous and reserves recovery.
Availability of services production forecasting and independent reserves including FPSOs and rigs, availability of auditing processes.
technology and engineering capacity, Operations, development and project execution availability of skilled resources, maintaining management systems and cost controls together project schedules and costs as well as fiscal, with capable project teams.
regulatory, political and other conditions leading to operational problems and Long-term development planning to ensure timely production loss or development delay.
access to FPSOs, rigs and other essential services.
Consequences may include lower production and or recovery of reserves, production delays, cost overruns and or failure to fulfil contractual commitments.
Exploration success Failure to identify and capture acreage and Strong portfolio management and alignment with and reserves addition resource opportunities to provide a portfolio strategic growth targets.
Appropriate balance of drillable exploration prospects and between growth by exploration and acquisition.
sufficient development projects to achieve Exploration management systems including reserves addition targets.
comprehensive peer review with focus on Consequences may be that specific geologies in core areas we know well and in which exploration programmes may fail to we can build a competitive advantage.
add reserves and hence value.
Failure Focused mergers and acquisitions effort focusing to negotiate access rights or close on geographical and technical areas aligned with transactions could slow growth of reserves our strategy.
Diligence in acquisition process and and production and lead to loss of post-acquisition integration to ensure targeted competitive advantage.
Host government Premier operates in some countries where Premiers portfolio includes operations in both low political and fiscal risks political, economic and social transition is and higher risk environments.
Premier actively taking place or there are current sovereignty monitors the local situation and has business disputes.
Developments in politics, laws continuity plans in each area which can be and regulations can affect our operations activated depending on predefined levels of alert.
Premier strives to be a good corporate citizen Consequences may include forced globally, and fosters reputation by strong and divestment of assets: limits on production or positive relationships with government and cost recovery: import and export restrictions: communities where we do business.
Premier international conflicts, including war, civil engages in respectful industry-wide lobby and unrest and local security concerns that sustainable corporate responsibility and threaten the safe operation of company community investment programmes.
Rigorous facilities: price controls, tax increases and adherence to Premiers business ethics policy and other retroactive tax claims: expropriation of code of conduct.
property: cancellation of contract rights: and Continuous monitoring of the external increase in regulatory burden.
It is difficult to environment for emerging risks to the business.
predict the timing or severity of these occurrences or their potential impact.
Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements 53 Key risk factor Risk detail How is it managed?
Commodity price Oil and gas prices are affected by global Oil and gas hedging programmes to underpin our volatility supply and demand and price can be subject financial strength and capacity to fund our future to significant fluctuations.
Factors that developments and operations.
influence these include operational issues, Premier investment guidelines ensure that our natural disasters, weather, political instability, development programmes are robust to downside or conflicts and economic conditions or sensitivity price scenarios.
actions by major oil-exporting countries.
Price fluctuations can affect our business assumptions and can effect investment decisions and financial capability.
Organisational Risk that the capability of the organisation Premier has created a competitive remuneration capability is not adequate to deliver plans for strategic and retention package including bonus and longgrowth.
The capability of the organisation is term incentive plans to incentivise loyalty and a function of both the strength of its human good performance from the existing, highly resources and its business management skilled workforce.
Inadequate systems or lack of Premier is continuing to strengthen its compliance may lead to loss of value and organisational capability to achieve strategic failure to achieve growth targets.
This includes resource planning, personnel to competitors, inability to attract competency development, training and and retain quality human resources and development programmes, succession planning competency gaps could affect our including leadership development.
operational performance and delivery of growth strategy.
Continuous strengthening of business management systems and controls as appropriate to the size and market position of the company.
Joint venture partner Global operations in the oil and gas industry Due diligence and continuous and regular alignment are conducted in a joint venture environment.
engagement with partners in joint ventures in both There is a risk that joint venture partners are operated and non-operated projects.
Premier not aligned in their objectives and drivers takes strategic acquisition opportunities where and this may lead to inefficiencies and or appropriate to gain a greater degree of influence delays.
Many of our major projects are and control.
operated by our joint venture partners and our ability to influence our partners is sometimes limited due to our small shares in such ventures.
Financial discipline and Risk that sufficient funds are not available to Strong financial discipline and balance sheet.
Premier has an established financial management system to ensure that it is able to maintain an appropriate level of liquidity and financial capacity and to manage the level of assessed risk associated with the financial instruments.
Premier maintains access to capital markets through the cycle.
The management system includes policies and a delegation of authority manual to reasonably protect against risk of financial fraud in the group.
An insurance programme is put in place to reduce the potential impact of the physical risks associated with exploration and production activities.
In addition, business interruption cover is purchased for a proportion of the cash flow from producing fields.
Cash balances are invested in short-term deposits with minimum A credit rating banks, AAA managed liquidity funds and A1 P1 commercial paper, subject to Board approved limits.
54 Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT On behalf of the Nomination Committee, I am pleased to present our report in relation to the financial year ended 31 December 2012.
Composition and role of the Nomination Committee The Committee meets under my chairmanship and, in addition to myself, comprises Joe Darby, Jane Hinkley, David Lindsell, Simon Lockett, Michel Romieu and David Roberts.
The Board considers the membership of the Committee to be in compliance with the Code.
The role of the Committee includes: reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and making recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments that are deemed Mike Welton necessary.
This requires an ongoing assessment of the appropriate skills-mix required Chairman at Board level in light of the strategy of the company in the medium-term: responsibility for identifying and nominating candidates, subject to Board approval, to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise and to prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment: and reviewing the development and leadership potential of senior executives below Board level and ensuring that appropriate succession plans are in place for both Board and senior positions.
The Committee met once in 2012 to discuss and agree on: Management Succession with emphasis on the new leadership development programme which was rolled out in the organisation during the year and which is designed to develop the competence of our staff: and The Challenges Facing the Leadership of the Business - with emphasis on the need for good governance, clear accountabilities and communication.
These issues influenced discussions at the Board which resulted in organisational changes in 2012, key elements of which are summarised in the Corporate Governance Report.
By order of the Board M W Welton Chairman of the Nomination Committee 20 March 2013 Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements 55 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The directors present their annual report on the affairs of the group, together with the audited group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012.
The Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 42 to 47 forms part of this report.
Results and dividends The groups net profit for the year amounted to US$252.0 million 2011: profit of US$171.2 million.
The directors propose a final dividend of 5 pence per ordinary share.
Subject to shareholder approval at the 2013 AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 14 June 2013 to shareholders whose names appear on the Register of Members on 17 May 2013.
Principal activities The principal activities of the group are oil and gas exploration, development and production.
The group operates through subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures, details of which are shown in note 10 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Business review The company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the group during the financial year-ended 31 December 2012 and of the position of the group at the end of the year the business review.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the business review can be found in the following sections of the Annual Report and Financial Statements: Chief Executives Review Financial Review Company Risk Factors Key Performance Indicators Environmental, employee, social and community matters, within the Corporate Responsibility Report The Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review and the Financial Review also include details of expected future developments in the business of the group.
Annual General Meeting AGM The companys 11th AGM will be held on Friday 7 June 2013 at 11.00am.
The Notice of the AGM, together with details of all resolutions which will be placed before the meeting accompanies this report.
Directors The directors who served throughout the year except as noted were as follows: 3 Mr Mike Welton Chairman Mr Robin Allan 4, 5, 6 Mr Joe Darby senior independent non-executive director Mr Tony Durrant Mr Neil Hawkings 1, 6 Ms Jane Hinkley 2, 4, 6 Mr David Lindsell 6 Mr Simon Lockett Chief Executive Mr Andrew Lodge 4, 6 Professor David Roberts 5, 6 Mr Michel Romieu Notes: 1.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 2.
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee 3.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee 4.
Member of the Remuneration Committee 5.
Member of the Audit and Risk Committee 6.
Member of the Nomination Committee Biographical details of all directors can be found in the Board of Directors section of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
56 Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Directors election In accordance with best practice for FTSE 350 companies as published in the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, all directors will stand for annual re-election by shareholders.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, the company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
The powers of directors are described in the Corporate Governance Report and in the Matters Reserved for Board Decision, a copy of which can be found on the companys website www.
The companys Articles of Association may only be amended by special resolution at a General Meeting of the shareholders.
Directors interests The table below summarises the directors interests in shares that are owned outright.
This includes any shares owned by a spouse, and, for executive directors, also includes Share Incentive Plan SIP Partnership shares and SIP Matching shares held for more than three years.
This includes Ordinary Shares held by Mr N Hawkings wife 138,416 Ordinary Shares held as at 1 January 2012, 31 December 2012 and as at 20 March 2013.
Directors interests in share options, deferred bonus shares, Deferred and Matching Share Awards under the Asset and Equity Plan, Performance Share Awards, Deferred and Matching Share Awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan and Share Incentive Plan entitlements are shown in the Remuneration Report together with details of the remuneration of all directors who served during the year.
Directors indemnities The company has granted an indemnity to all of its directors under which the company will, to the fullest extent permitted by law and to the extent provided by the Articles of Association, indemnify them against all costs, charges, losses and liabilities incurred by them in the execution of their duties.
Share capital Details of the issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the companys issued share capital during the year are shown in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements.
The company has one class of Ordinary Share which carries no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at General Meetings of the company.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 19.
The voting rights in relation to the shares held within the Employee Benefit Trust are exercisable by the trustees.
Details of the number of shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 58 to 79.
No person has any special rights of control over the companys share capital and all issued shares are fully-paid.
Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements 57 Substantial shareholders At 20 March 2013 the company had received notification from the following institutions, in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of interests in excess of three per cent of the companys issued Ordinary Shares with voting rights: Notified Notified number of percentage of Nature of 1 Name of shareholder voting rights voting rights holding BlackRock Inc 11,224,700 9.790% Indirect AXA SA & group companies 40,173,814 8.580% Indirect Schroders plc 27,072,247 5.118% Indirect Ameriprise Financial Inc 24,666,346 4.663% Indirect Aviva plc 3,859,897 4.870% Direct Bear, Stearns International Trading Ltd 2,552,847 3.109% Direct BNP Paribas Investment Partners S. A.
16,219,276 3.070% Direct Norges Bank 15,905,661 3.010% Direct Notes: Where notifications were made prior to the Share Split in May 2011, numbers have not been adjusted.
Where notifications were made prior to the issue of shares in respect of the EnCore transaction, numbers have not been adjusted.
Where the nature of the holding is both direct and indirect, the larger holding has been quoted.
Supplier payment policy The groups policy in respect of its suppliers is to establish terms of payment when agreeing the terms of business transactions and to abide by the terms of payment.
The groups normal payment terms are four weeks.
Hedging and risk management Details of the groups policy on hedging and risk management are provided in the Financial Review.
A further disclosure has been made in note 17 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements related to various financial instruments and exposure of the group to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk.
Subsequent events Post balance sheet events are disclosed in note 26 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Charitable and political donations During the year the group made charitable contributions amounting to US$396,443 2011: US$302,221.
No political contributions were made during the year 2011: US$nil.
Significant agreements change of control There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the company such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease arrangements and employees share plans.
None of these individually is considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the group as a whole.
Furthermore, the directors are not aware of any agreements between the company and its directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Auditor Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this Annual Report and Financial Statements confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditor is unaware: and the director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
By order of the Board S C Huddle Company Secretary 20 March 2013 58 Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT Dear fellow shareholder On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 2012 Directors Remuneration Report, for which we are seeking approval from shareholders at our Annual General Meeting.
The Remuneration Committee aims to ensure that our remuneration policy serves shareholder interests and closely reflects the groups business strategy.
The Committee is mindful of the need to demonstrate the link between remuneration and performance and to incentivise its employees.
To this end, Premier operates a similar philosophy to pay throughout the organisation and all employees, including executive directors, receive awards under the same incentive schemes, thus ensuring group-wide focus on common business goals.
Jane Hinkley During 2012, the Committee undertook a full review of the executive remuneration Chairman of the Remuneration Committee arrangements at Premier, taking into account shareholder views from the 2011 consultation, the companys strategy, market practice and evolving best practice guidelines.
The review concluded that: The pay mix, being heavily weighted towards long-term variable elements, is in the best interests of shareholders as it ensures a long-term focus, direct alignment with shareholders and a highly performance-oriented culture: The annual bonus, based on a corporate scorecard capturing financial, operational and strategic objectives, helps reward shorter-term objectives key to achieving our long-term strategy: The Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP ensures alignment with shareholders, being based on both absolute and relative Total Shareholder Return TSR, and measured over a total of six years: The significant deferral requirement of vested LTIP Equity Pool and LTIP Performance Share awards helps support staff retention and lengthens the incentive time horizon: Against our comparators, total cash i. e. salary plus bonus for our executive directors is below market.
The LTIP is geared to provide the opportunity to achieve above market levels of pay only through exceptional sustained relative TSR performance over six years: and The review of the companys underlying performance before LTIP payouts are finalised ensures that the impact of external factors are taken into account where appropriate.
The Committee reviews a range of measures, and not just those specified in the plan, to ensure this assessment is robust.
As a result of the review, the Committee concluded that the aims and structure of the remuneration packages are embodied in the existing policy and therefore it remains appropriate for 2013.
The LTIP is structured so as to reward both absolute and relative share price performance, thereby directly aligning the interests of executives and shareholders.
Over the 2010 LTIP cycle ending in December 2012, even though Premiers absolute share price performance was positive at 5.1 per cent p. a., the LTIP Equity Pool threshold of 10 per cent p. a. was not met and consequently no awards were earned for this element.
Over the same period, however, Premiers relative performance against its sector peers was strong at just below upper quartile and consequently 2010 LTIP Performance Share Awards and 2010 LTIP Matching Share Awards will partially vest in early 2013 at approximately 90 per cent and approximately 65 per cent of maximum respectively.
As detailed later in the report, the Committee also considered the underlying performance of Premier over the three-year period and concluded that the performance merits the awards made.
Remuneration issues across all sectors continue to be in the spotlight.
To stay ahead of requirements we have incorporated a number of changes in this report consistent with the draft proposals that have been tabled by the Department for Business Innovation & Skills BIS during 2012.
However, as set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting this year there will continue to be a single advisory vote on this report.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank shareholders for their continuing support.
Yours sincerely I J Hinkley Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 20 March 2013 Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements 59 Compliance This report has been prepared in accordance with schedule 8 of the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
The company complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code regarding best practice on the design of performance-related remuneration.
The report has been divided into separate sections for unaudited and audited information.
In line with the Association of British Insurers Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure, the Committee has reviewed the companys remuneration policy and concluded that the policy will not raise environmental, operational, social or governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour e. g. one of the important factors in determining annual bonus performance is the achievement of specific HSES targets.
Remuneration Committee The Committee currently comprises four non-executive directors and met six times during the year.
The members of the Committee and their attendance are summarised below: Member throughout Number of Committee member 2012 meetings attended Ms I J Hinkley 3 7 Mr J Darby 3 7 Mr D C Lindsell 3 6 Professor D G Roberts 3 6 Note: There were six scheduled meetings of the Remuneration Committee during the year.
The remaining meeting attended by only Ms I J Hinkley and Mr J Darby was called to approve the details of arrangements approved in principle by a prior scheduled meeting of the Remuneration Committee.
The Board considers that the membership of the Committee is compliant with the Code recommendations.
Stephen Huddle, Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Nigel Wilson, Corporate Services Director and Lee Johnson, Group Head of HR attend Committee meetings as appropriate.
No individual is involved in determining his own remuneration.
The determination of the remuneration of the non-executive directors is a matter reserved for the Board excluding the non-executive directors.
The Committee acts within its agreed written terms of reference, which are published on the companys website www.
Committees main responsibilities Considering and determining the remuneration policy for executive directors and senior management Considering and determining the total compensation package of each executive director, within this agreed policy Considering and advising on the general principles under which remuneration is applied to employees Considering the design of, and determining targets for, the annual bonus plan for senior management Determining the quantum and performance conditions for the long-term incentive awards Determining the policy for pension arrangements, service agreements and termination payments to executive directors and senior management Determining the Chairmans fee Kepler Associates Kepler is the independent adviser to the Remuneration Committee.
Kepler provides advice on remuneration for executives, analysis on all elements of the remuneration policy, regular market and best practice updates, and also attends Remuneration Committee meetings.
Kepler reports directly to the Remuneration Committee and is a signatory to the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants see www.
Kepler provides no other services to the company.
During the year the Committee also took advice from Capita Employee Benefits, in relation to pension policy.
