Report on Directors remuneration Foreword The Remuneration Committee is responsible for overseeing the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Chairman.
It is also responsible for the operation of senior management incentive schemes throughout the Group.
In designing an appropriate incentive structure, the Committee seeks to set challenging targets aimed at the generation of sustained shareholder value.
During the year, the Committee made a number of key decisions: Salary increase of 4% for 2012 13.
We reported last year that, following a comprehensive review, the Committee had concluded that an overall salary increase of 12% was required in order to restore remuneration packages to market competitive levels.
We also reported that in view of the continuing sensitivity over executive pay and the need to show restraint we had decided to phase this over two years with a 6% increase in 2011 and a further 6% increase expected in 2012 if still appropriate.
Whilst updated benchmarking indicates that an additional 6% increase remains reasonable, the Committee has decided to restrict this years increase in basic salaries to 4% in view of the performance achieved during the year and also to take account of general pay and conditions applying to other employees across the Group.
The increase will take effect on 1 September 2012 and the position will be reviewed again next year.
No change to other elements of the Executive Directors remuneration packages.
The annual bonus opportunity for 2012 13 remains at 60% of salary for on-target performance rising to a maximum of 100% of salary for out-performance.
The long-term incentive opportunity will also remain at 100% of salary.
Incentive out-turns in 2011 12: No bonus pay-out.
For the year ended 31 May 2012 we again focused the annual bonus on performance against three key indicators: profit before tax, net working capital and operating contribution margin.
The performance targets were not met during the year with the result that Executive Directors did not qualify for any part of their bonus entitlement for the period.
No vesting under 2009 PSP awards.
The Group operates a long-term incentive scheme linked to real growth in earnings per share above a threshold.
Despite delivering strong results in the first two years of the three year performance period, performance during the most recent year was such that overall the minimum performance threshold was not met.
As a result, none of the awards made to Directors in 2009 in respect of the three years ended 31 May 2012 will vest.
These awards will now lapse.
I hope you will find the Directors remuneration report clear, transparent and informative.
As always, we remain committed to ongoing dialogue with our shareholders and take an active interest in your views and voting on the remuneration report.
James Steel Remuneration Committee Chairman Introduction This report on Directors remuneration has been prepared in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and satisfies the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
A resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
The information on pages 41 to 43 relating to Directors interests in shares under incentive arrangements, remuneration during the year ended 31 May 2012 and Directors pension benefits constitutes audited information.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee of the Board the Committee is responsible for determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
The Committee is also responsible for determining within such policy the remuneration packages of individual Executive Directors, for determining the remuneration packages of the Chairman and the Company Secretary and for approving the design and operation of all incentive schemes for the Executive Directors and senior management.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and met on five occasions during the year ended 31 May 2012.
The Committees current Terms of Reference, which are reviewed annually and were last revised in March 2012, are available on the Companys website www.
The members of the Committee during the year were Mr Steel Committee Chairman, Professor Arnold, Mr Heale, Mr Lewis and, with effect from their appointment on 1 January 2012, Ms Edozien and Mrs Owers.
Each is a Non-executive Director of the Company and all are independent of management and have no conflicts of interest or any day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors with the exception of Mr Harvey as Non-executive Chairman is determined by the Board of Directors.
No Director is involved in any decisions on the level and composition of his own remuneration.
The Committee was advised generally in relation to Directors remuneration during the year by Deloitte LLP.
Deloitte LLP has also provided tax advisory services to the Group.
During the year, the Committee consulted Mr Harvey in his capacity as Chairman on issues where his experience and knowledge have been of benefit to its deliberations and Mr Harvey attended meetings by invitation.
The Chief Executive has also been consulted on proposals relating to the remuneration of members of the Groups senior management team and he too attended meetings by invitation.
Neither Mr Harvey nor the Chief Executive attend when the matters under consideration concern their own personal remuneration.
The Global Human Resources Director also attended meetings by invitation.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee and attends Committee meetings save where his own remuneration is under consideration.
PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 37 Report on Directors remuneration continued Policy on Executive Directors remuneration The Groups policy is that the remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors should: be sufficient to recruit, motivate and retain executives of the calibre required: be aligned with the enhancement of sustainable shareholder value: provide a competitive level of remuneration against companies of similar size and complexity: be structured such that an appropriate proportion of the remuneration package links reward to corporate and individual performance over the short, medium and long term: and recognise the long-term ambitions of and risks inherent to the Company.
The following table summarises the key elements of the Executive Directors current remuneration packages: Element Commentary Salary and benefits Basic salary varies by individual and will increase by 4% with effect from 1 September 2012.
Benefits include life assurance, health insurance and car benefits Pension benefits Company contribution of 20% of salary to a defined contribution pension scheme or receipt of cash in lieu.
Membership of a defined benefit pension scheme closed to further accrual since 2008 but with a continuing salary linkage until 31 May 2013 Annual bonus Maximum opportunity of 100% of salary with 60% of salary payable for on-target performance, dependent upon profit before taxation, net working capital and operating contribution targets Performance Share Plan Annual awards of rights over shares worth 100% of salary, with 25% vesting for growth in adjusted earnings per share of RPI 4% per annum rising pro rata to 100% vesting for growth in adjusted earnings per share of RPI 10% per annum, in each case compounded over a three year performance period Shareholding guidelines Requirement over time to build up interests in the Companys shares worth 150% of salary and to reinvest half of any after-tax bonus or gain arising from share incentive plans until the guideline is met Service contracts One year rolling service contracts In designing an appropriate incentive structure for the Executive Directors and other senior management, the Committee seeks to set challenging performance criteria which are aligned with the Groups business strategy and the enhancement of sustained shareholder value.
The Committee is also mindful of the need to avoid inadvertently encouraging risky or irresponsible behaviour including behaviour which could raise environmental, social or governance issues.
The Committee receives updates from the Global Human Resources Director on pay and employment conditions applying to other Group employees: these are taken into consideration when setting Executive Directors remuneration, consistent with the Groups general aim of seeking to reward all employees fairly according to the nature of their role, their performance and market forces.
Balance of fixed versus variable remuneration The Committee believes that an appropriate proportion of the executive remuneration package should be variable and performancerelated in order to encourage and reward superior corporate and individual performance.
The following chart illustrates the balance between fixed and variable remuneration for Executive Directors, based on the policy for 2012 13: Target 49% 10% 29% 12% Maximum 31% 6% 31% 31% Salary Pension Bonus Performance Share Plan PZ Cussons Plc 38 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Basic salary and benefits Executive Directors salaries are normally reviewed annually with effect from 1 September to ensure the ongoing effectiveness of remuneration arrangements.
Reviews take account of various factors including individual performance, remuneration levels in companies of similar size and complexity and pay conditions elsewhere in the Group.
In 2011 the Committee undertook a benchmarking review with advice and assistance from Deloitte LLP which indicated that Executive Directors remuneration packages had fallen below market competitive levels.
The Committee concluded that an overall salary increase of 12% was required but, recognising the continuing sensitivity over executive pay and the need for restraint, determined to phase this salary increase over two years, limiting the increase in 2011 to 6% with the balance expected to become effective from 1 September 2012 if still considered appropriate at that time.
Whilst updated benchmarking indicates that an additional 6% increase in 2012 remains reasonable, the Committee has decided to restrict this years increase in basic salaries to 4% in view of the performance achieved during the year and the general pay and conditions applying to other Group employees.
Other elements of the Executive Directors remuneration packages remain unchanged.
Details of the Executive Directors revised salaries effective from 1 September 2012 are set out in the notes to the table on Directors remuneration on page 42.
Taxable benefits, which are subject to periodic review, include life assurance, health insurance and car benefits.
Pension benefits Since 1 June 2008 Executive Directors have participated in a defined contribution pension scheme under which the Group pays a contribution of 20% of salary into the scheme on their behalf subject to a minimum employee contribution of 5% of salary.
Executive Directors whose pension benefits have exceeded or are forecast to exceed the annual or life time allowances established by HM Revenue & Customs are eligible, at the discretion of the Committee, to receive a cash payment of 20% of salary in lieu of employer pension contributions.
Up to 31 May 2008 Executive Directors participated in a defined benefit pension scheme which provided benefits of up to two thirds of final salary subject to a scheme-specific earnings cap.
With effect from 1 June 2008 no further benefits accrue under the defined benefit scheme although the benefits payable will remain linked to salary until 31 May 2013 in line with arrangements pertaining to all members of the scheme when it was closed to future accrual.
Further detail on Executive Directors benefits under the defined benefit pension scheme are set out in the table on page 43.
Annual bonus scheme Executive Directors and key senior executives are generally eligible to participate in an annual bonus scheme.
In respect of the year ended 31 May 2012, each of the Executive Directors participated in the Senior Executive Annual Bonus Scheme, pursuant to which they were eligible to earn a cash bonus linked to performance targets established by the Committee.
For the year ended 31 May 2012, 1 Executive Directors could receive a bonus of up to 100% of basic salary with 60% of salary payable for on-target performance dependent upon the achievement of profit before taxation, net working capital and operating contribution margin targets.
These targets and bonus levels were established at the beginning of the year: no changes were made during the year.
The performance targets were not met during the year and, accordingly, no bonus payments were made to any of the Executive Directors in respect of the year ended 31 May 2012.
Each of the Executive Directors will continue to participate in the Senior Executive Annual Bonus Scheme in respect of the year ending 31 May 2013.
The eligibility of the Executive Directors to earn a cash bonus in respect of that period will also be dependent upon the achievement of certain profit before taxation, net working capital and operating contribution margin targets for the Group.
The Senior Executive Annual Bonus Scheme was introduced with effect from 1 June 2010 and replaced an earlier Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme.
Under that earlier scheme, awards of deferred shares were made to Executive Directors following the attainment of pre-determined annual financial targets.
Vesting of such deferred shares was then subject to three years continuing employment.
During the year ended 31 May 2012 each Executive Director received certain shares which had been the subject of earlier deferred share awards in respect of performance for the year ended 31 May 2008 each having satisfied the condition that he complete three years of continuing employment from the date of grant of the award.
Sufficient shares to satisfy deferred share awards are generally purchased in the market and retained in an employee benefit trust pending their transfer to participants.
Further details regarding the employee benefit trust are given in note 25 of the consolidated financial statements.
1 The maximum bonus opportunity available under the Senior Executive Annual Bonus Scheme may be exceeded in exceptional cases at the discretion of the Committee.
The maximum bonus opportunity was not exceeded during the year ended 31 May 2012.
PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 39 Report on Directors remuneration continued Performance Share Plan Executive Directors and certain key executives are also generally eligible to participate in the Performance Share Plan which provides for the grant of conditional rights to receive shares subject to continued employment over a three year vesting period and the satisfaction of certain performance criteria established by the Committee.
Annual awards to any participant are limited to rights over 1 shares with a market value at the time of grant equal to 100% of basic salary.
The year ended 31 May 2012 represented the final year of the three year performance period for awards made under the Performance Share Plan in 2009.
Despite delivering strong results in the first two years, performance in the final year was such that overall the minimum performance threshold was not met.
As a result, none of the awards made to the Executive Directors in 2009 in respect of the three years ended 31 May 2012 will vest and these awards will now lapse.
During the year ended 31 May 2012 new awards were made to the Executive Directors over shares with a value equal to 100% of basic salary.
These awards are subject to adjusted earnings per share growth targets measured over the single three year performance period commencing on 1 June 2011.
The Committee considers adjusted earnings per share to be an important indicator of the Companys underlying financial performance providing a clear line of sight for executives between their performance and potential reward.
Further details of these performance conditions are set out in the notes to the table setting out Directors interests in shares under incentive arrangements on page 41.
The Committee intends to make further awards to Executive Directors on the same basis during the year ending 31 May 2013.
Such awards are expected to be subject to similar performance targets measured over a three year performance period commencing on 1 June 2012.
1 This percentage may be increased to 150% in exceptional cases at the discretion of the Committee.
Executive Share Option Scheme Prior to the adoption by the Company of the Performance Share Plan in 2008, Executive Directors and certain other senior executives were generally eligible for the grant of options under the PZ Cussons Plc Executive Share Option Scheme.
There have been no grants of options under the Executive Share Option Scheme since the introduction of the Performance Share Plan and it is not expected that any further awards will be made under this scheme.
All options granted under the Executive Share Option Scheme have now either vested and are capable of exercise or have lapsed.
Limits on shares issued to satisfy share incentive plans The Companys share incentive plans may operate over new issued Ordinary Shares, treasury shares or Ordinary Shares purchased in the market.
In relation to all the Companys share incentive plans, the Company may not, in any ten year period, issue or grant rights requiring the issue of more than 10% of the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company to satisfy awards to participants nor more than 5% of the issued Ordinary Share capital for executive share plans.
Shareholding guidelines for Directors The Committee has established Shareholding Ownership Guidelines which require Executive Directors: to build up and retain holdings of shares and or deferred shares net of tax worth 150% of salary from time to time: and until this share ownership threshold is met, to invest 50% of any after-tax bonus into the Companys shares.
They are also required to retain shares with a value equal to 50% of the net gain after tax arising from the acquisition of shares pursuant to any of the Companys share incentive plans, again until the share ownership threshold is met.
All Executive Directors have complied with the above guidelines in respect of the year ended 31 May 2012.
Mr Harvey is also required under his letter of appointment to invest 20% of his fees each year in the purchase of shares in the Company and to retain such shares during the term of his appointment.
Non-executive Directors Non-executive Directors fees are generally reviewed every two years the last such review having taken place with effect from 1 July 2010.
There have been no changes in the fees payable during the year and the next review scheduled for 1 July 2012 has been deferred until 1 June 2013.
Details of the fees paid during the period are set out in the table on Directors remuneration on page 42.
The following information on pages 41 to 43 comprises the auditable disclosures of the Report on Directors remuneration.
All awards have now vested and are capable of exercise.
2 Awarded under the PZ Cussons Plc Performance Share Plan.
The vesting of each award is dependent upon the extent to which an adjusted earnings per share growth target is achieved over a single three year performance period.
No proportion of an award may vest unless the Companys adjusted earnings per share grows by at least RPI 4% per annum compounded over the relevant performance period.
25% of the award will vest where adjusted earnings per share grows by RPI 4% per annum rising on a straight line pro rata basis to 100% vesting where adjusted earnings per share grows by RPI 10% per annum or better compounded over the performance period.
Where awards vest, participants will also receive a payment in cash and or shares as determined by the Remuneration Committee on or shortly following vesting of an amount equivalent to the dividends which would have been paid on those shares between the time when the awards were granted and the time when they vest.
The minimum performance conditions relating to the awards made in 2009 in respect of the three years ended 31 May 2012 have not been attained with the result that the awards will lapse in their entirety.
3 Awarded under the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme following the attainment of pre-determined financial targets.
Deferred shares will normally be received by participants following, and conditional only upon, three years of continuing employment from the date of the grant of the award.
The aggregate gross gains made by the Directors on the exercise of share options under the PZ Cussons Executive Share Option Scheme during the year were nil 2011: 734,132.
The gains are calculated based on the market price at the date of exercise for share options although the shares may have been retained and no gain realised.
The aggregate gross gains made by the Directors during the year on the vesting of the Performance Share Plan award made in 2008 was 2,122,096.
The gains are calculated based on the market price at the date of vesting although the shares may have been retained and no gain realised.
The market value of the Companys shares at 31 May 2012 was 3.23 per share.
The range during the year was 2.85 to 3.88.
PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 41 Report on Directors remuneration continued Performance graph The graph below illustrates the performance of PZ Cussons Plc measured by Total Shareholder Return TSR over the five year period to 31 May 2012 against the TSR of a holding of shares in the FTSE 250 index over the same period, based on an initial investment of 100.
The FTSE 250 index has been chosen as PZ Cussons Plc is a constituent of that index.
Messrs Kanellis, Leigh and Pantelireis have each elected, with the permission of the Committee, to receive instead a salary supplement equivalent to 20% of base salary: these amounts are included in the column headed Pension Contributions.
Mr Davis continues to participate in the defined contribution pension arrangement but, as the amount of Company contributions was less than 20% of his salary due to legislation introduced in the Finance Bill 2011, the difference between those contributions and 20% of his base salary was paid as a salary supplement.
Both the pension contributions and the salary supplement are included in the column headed Pension contributions.
2 In addition to the above, Executive Directors received the following cash payments during the year in lieu of dividends on past awards of deferred shares made under the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme which have not yet vested: Mr Kanellis: 11,548: Mr Davis: 7,126: Mr Leigh: 7,162: and Mr Pantelireis: 6,464.
The Executive Directors also received the following cash payments during the year in lieu of dividends accrued under the PZ Cussons Plc Performance Share Plan in respect of the award made in October 2008 which vested in October 2011: Mr Kanellis: 40,138: Mr Davis: 25,215: Mr Leigh: 24,699: and Mr Pantelireis: 22,642.
3 As reported on page 39, the annual salaries of the Executive Directors will be revised with effect from 1 September 2012.
The following annual salaries will apply: Mr Kanellis: 499,200: Mr Davis: 317,200: Mr Leigh: 312,000: and Mr Pantelireis: 271,960.
4 Ms Edozien and Mrs Owers were each appointed to the Board on 1 January 2012 at annual fees of 52,500.
The fees payable in respect of Ms Edozien are paid to her employer.
PZ Cussons Plc 42 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors pension benefits The following Executive Directors were members of the defined benefit pension arrangements provided by the Company.
All of these defined benefit plans were closed to future accrual on 31 May 2008 and replaced by defined contribution arrangements.
Benefits built up in the defined benefit plans will continue to receive a salary link until 31 May 2013, or the date that each Director leaves employment with the Company if sooner.
The pension entitlements and corresponding transfer values below relate solely to the defined benefit arrangements.
Increase in Value of net Gross accrued increase in Value of Value of Total change increase in pension net Total accrued pension over accrued accrued in value accrued of inflation pension at period pension at pension at during period pension a 31 May 2012 b 31 May 2011 31 May 2012 c pa pa pa G A Kanellis 15,095 7,133 303,428 115,100 4,344,000 4,896,000 552,000 C G Davis 1,090 451 24,243 8,300 399,000 444,000 45,000 B H Leigh 4,918 2,126 106,022 29,000 1,252,000 1,448,000 196,000 J Pantelireis 6,498 2,885 137,320 67,700 2,979,000 3,214,000 235,000 Notes: 1 Pension accruals shown are the amounts which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the plan closure date 31 May 2008 and pensionable salaries at 31 May 2012.
2 Transfer values relating to benefits accrued in the Directors and expatriate pension plans have been calculated in accordance with the method and basis determined by the Trustee of each plan, on the advice of their actuary, to be consistent with current legislation and the rules of the plans.
Transfer values relating to unfunded pension benefits see note 5 have been calculated using a method and basis consistent with those used for the funded plans.
3 The value of net increase b represents the incremental value to the Director of his increase in pension over the year, calculated on the assumption that he left employment with the Company at the year-end.
It is based on the accrued pension increase a.
4 The change in the transfer value c includes the effect of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company and Directors.
Such factors include mortality assumptions which were revised by the Trustees of each plan during the year following a review of the transfer value bases and gilt yield movements.
5 The Company provides unfunded, unapproved pension benefits for Messrs Leigh and Davis as their benefits would have been subject to the Inland Revenue earnings cap, introduced by the Finance Act 1989 had the earnings cap not been abolished by the Finance Act 2004.
The funded benefits payable to these Directors remain subject to a scheme specific earnings cap, which increases each year and is calculated in a similar manner to the abolished statutory earnings cap.
The above figures include both the funded and unfunded pension benefits.
6 Messrs Pantelireis and Kanellis are former members of the expatriate pension scheme operated by the Company and additional benefits are provided through that scheme, as their benefits would have been subject to the Inland Revenue earnings cap, introduced by the Finance Act 1989 had the earnings cap not been abolished by the Finance Act 2004.
The above figures are inclusive of the expatriate pension scheme benefits.
7 The Company operates a defined contribution pension arrangement for current service.
Participation in the arrangement is optional and only Mr Davis chose to participate during the year.
The contributions paid to the arrangement during the year by the Company in respect of Mr Davis was 34,065.
These contributions are included in the Pensions Contributions column of the table on  on page 42.
8 As Messrs, Pantelireis, Leigh and Kanellis chose not to participate in the defined contribution arrangement during the year, they received a salary supplement equivalent to 20% of base salary in lieu of pension provision.
As the amount of contributions paid to the defined contribution arrangement by the Company in respect of Mr Davis were less than 20% of his salary due to legislation introduced in the Finance Bill 2011, the difference between those contributions and 20% of his base salary was paid as a salary supplement.
These contributions are also included in the Pensions Contributions column of the table on Directors remuneration on page 42.
9 Voluntary contributions paid by Directors and resulting benefits are not shown.
Service contracts Executive Directors have one year rolling service contracts.
No Executive Director, including those proposed for re-election, has a service contract with a notice period in excess of one year or containing any provision for pre-determined compensation on termination exceeding one years salary and benefits in kind.
No Executive Directors hold any other positions outside the Group.
Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts but are appointed for initial periods of three years, normally renewable on a similar basis.
The present letters of appointment for Professor Arnold, Ms Edozien, Mr Heale, Mr Harvey, Mrs Owers and Mr Steel will expire on 31 December 2012, 31 December 2014, 31 December 2013, 31 December 2012, 31 December 2014 and 30 September 2014 respectively.
Whilst the letter of appointment of Mr Lewis formally expires on 31 May 2013, he has indicated his intention to step down from the Board at the Companys AGM Annual General Meeting in 2012.
By order of the Board of Directors James Steel Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 24 July 2012 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 43
