CORPORATE 'OVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT T C C. N D, Chair, Remuneraon Commiee I with major shareholders.
hareholders 2011 12 is replaced by a reised I am pleased to present the epressed two key concerns: the need Performance hare Plan P P, subject Remuneraon Commiees report on for simplicaon of, and increased to shareholder approal at the 2012 Directors remuneraon for the year transparency around, how compensaon Annual General Meeng, building on to 31 March 2012. is calculated.
Aer receiing inestor the structure sll in use for the broader feedback and reecng on the package, the management group.
This caps the The primary objeces of our remuneraon Remuneraon Commiee concluded the maimum potenal award at 200% policy remain unchanged: following approach to Eecue Directors of base salary, although the intenon To aract and retain top talent: remuneraon eece for the financial is to normally set the awards at 150% To incenise key eecues and year 2013 and for the future: of base salary: managers: B The P P performance measures will be To drie superior performance in both The Board has determined that base EP and T R, equally weighted, which the short and long term: and salaries will increase for the CFO by 2.7% hae been endorsed by shareholders: To align with the interests of and the CEO by 3%, eece 1 July 2012, EP the threshold leel of growth is shareholders.
taking into account the general direcon set at 3% CAGR measured oer three Oer the past two years the Company of Company remuneraon.
years when 25% of the award would has created and implemented a self-help est, with 100% esng occurring A programme to support its transformaon, once 10% CAGR measured oer three When determining the leel of bonus and the eeceness of that programme years is achieed.
This represents a opportunity aailable to Eecue is reected in this years business results.
challenging growth target gien the Directors, the Commiee has set As the Company progresses to the net contet of the at to falling defence stretching business and personal stage in its business deelopment, the markets in which the Group operates: objeces to ensure that the rewards are Remuneraon Commiee proposes to T R relae T R measured against only achieed for strong performance ensure that the compensaon structures the FT E250 inde minus inestment relae to market condions.
and packages for the Eecue Directors trusts.
The threshold is set at median The maimum bonus opportunity for are appropriate to meet future business performance when 30% of the shares ecellent performance is increased from challenges.
The Value haring Plan V P would est, with 100% esng upon 125% to 150% of base salary for the CEO was designed for the Companys self-help achieing upper quarle performance.
and CFO to align them compeely with phase and was considered to be a me The maimum allocaon for matching bound ong-term Incene Plan TIP.
their peer group and to compensate in shares under the Deferred Annual Bonus The net phase for the Company aims part for the reduced TIP opportunity Plan DAB remains unchanged at 50% at resumpon of growth, both in the h arising with the moe from the V P to of any bonus paid.
The mandatory bonus and the h, despite defence markets the new P P: forecast to be at or falling, and therefore deferment will be increased, howeer, On-target bonus is set at 50% of the a reised TIP has been designed to align to 50% to enhance alignment with maimum bonus, again to bring closer with this phase.
There will be alignment with the peer group.
This no element of oluntary deferral: results in an on-target bonus opportunity Accordingly, with input from its adisors, The DAB and P P will be managed of 75% of base salary.
Towers Watson, the Remuneraon separately: Commiee undertook a market reiew L I P The EP performance measure in the DAB and deeloped a reised compensaon The Value haring Plan under which will be the same as for the P P. package which was reiewed and discussed awards were made in 2010 11 and 44 YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012
