B C & Details of the proposed changes to the D D long-term incene plans are contained The following Non-eecue Directors were The Commiee aims to maintain a in the Noce of Annual General Meeng.
members of the Remuneraon Commiee remuneraon policy, consistent with during 2011 12: the Companys business strategy and Assuming that the annual bonus pays out objeces, which: Noreen Doyle Chair, Remuneraon at target and 50% esng for TIPs, 60% of Eecue Directors compensaon Commiee Aracts, retains and moates indiiduals ecluding pension contribuons is linked Mark Ellio Group Chairman of high calibre: to performance-drien ariable pay, based Colin Balmer Is responsie to both Company and on the proposed changes outlined aboe.
Admiral ir James Burnell-Nugent personal performance: Paul Murray Is compee within releant To help promote transparency, we hae set Michael Harper from 22 Noember 2011 employment markets.
out clearly the elements that make up the Eecue Directors pay in this report as The remuneraon policy is built on the All Non-eecue Directors became well as eplaining the approach taken members of the Commiee in eptember following philosophy: to benchmarking Eecue remuneraon.
Remuneraon packages are structured Noreen Doyle The full Terms of Reference of the to support business strategy and conform C R C Commiee can be found on the QineQ to current best pracce: 24 May 2012 website www.
Copies are Appropriate rewards are gien for also aailable on request.
meeng specic target objeces set at the beginning of each year: R R C ' Incremental compensaon is achieed for The following Report of the Remuneraon The Commiee is chaired by Noreen Doyle aaining stretching performance targets: Commiee has been approed by the Board and all its members are Non-eecue Objeces are measured on metrics for submission to shareholders.
In the financial year 2011 12, the Commiee met si mes.
designed to be consistent with The Report coers the remuneraon of sustainable long-term business Directors and includes specic disclosures During the year, the Commiee receied performance: relang to their compensaon, shares and adice from its appointed independent To monitor pay and employment other interests.
The report also describes adisors, Towers Watson, who also proided condions elsewhere in the Group.
the share-based incene plans aailable to market data and adised on the comparator Eecue Directors and to other employees.
groups T R so that the Commiee could The total remuneraon leels of the This report has been prepared and, where decide whether share plan performance Eecue Directors are reiewed annually appropriate, audited, in accordance with targets had been met.
by the Commiee, taking into account: the requirements of the arge and MediumThe Group Chief Eecue, Group HR Performance of the Eecue against sized Companies and Groups Accounts Director and Head of Reward also proided specic targets: and Reports Regulaons 2008 and the informaon and adice to the Commiee.
Compee market pracce and F A isng Rules.
remuneraon leels: and The general economic enironment.
A During 2011 12 the Commiee meengs coered a number of topics including: April Eecue Directors 2011 12 bonuses 2011 12 performance targets May Eecue Directors salary reiews Directors Remuneraon Report Eecue team salary reiews and 2011 12 bonuses ong-term incene plan awards under the Value haring Plan and Performance hare Plan Reiew of performance metric for share opons made in 2008 Reiew of performance metric for Restricted tock hnit Plan esng applies only to h eecues August Awards under Restricted tock hnit plan Reiew of performance metrics for share awards made in 2008 P P Noember Eecue team shareholdings January Eecue incene structure Remuneraon Commiee programme for the year March Eecue team salary reiews Group incene scheme targets Deferred Annual Bonus Plan parcipaon Eecue Directors salary reiews YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012 45
