GOVERNANCE 74 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Directors remuneration report indicate that Erik Engstrom and Mark Armour will earn 66.8% of their Remuneration Committee initial award.
For Mr Engstrom, 50% of this will be deferred for an 75 Constitution and terms of reference additional twoyears.
For Mark Armour, who retired on 31 December 2012, there will be no deferral and no opportunity to earn further Executive directors shares.
With regard to MrArmours retirement, standard terms and 75 Remuneration philosophy and policy conditions were appliedas reported in last years remuneration report.
77 The total remuneration package 84 Service contracts Duncan Palmer joined at the end of August 2012 and took on his role as Chief Financial officer witheffect from 15 November 2012.
Details Non-executive directors of his remuneration arrangements are set out on pages 77 and 84 of 85 Policy on non-executive directors fees this Report.
In terms of salary increases, the Committee decided to award Total Shareholder Return graphs ErikEngstrom a salary increase of 2.5% effective 1 January 2013.
85 Total Shareholder Return graphs This level of increase is in line with 2013 increases applicable to thewideremployee population and other senior executives.
Remuneration and share tables DuncanPalmer didnot receive an increase to his starting salary.
86 Directors emoluments and fees Hisrst salary review will be in January 2014.
87 Directors shareholdings in Reed Elsevier 87 Share-based awards in Reed Elsevier Given the backdrop of solid progress, the Committee spent much ofits time in 2012 considering alternatives for new multi-year The Directors Remuneration Report the Report describes incentives.
This was necessitated by the need to replace the one-off how Reed Elsevier applies the principles of good governance REGP with a more regular Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and the relating to directors remuneration.
This Report has been expiration of our existing Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS in prepared by the Remuneration Committee of Reed Elsevier April 2013.
The Committee considered quantum, metrics and the Group plc the Committee in accordance with regulations structure of these plans as they relate to supporting the execution made under the Companies Act 2006 and the Dutch ofbusiness strategy.
CorporateGovernance Code the Dutch Code.
Earlier this year, we consulted with around 30 major shareholders The Report was approved by the Boards of Reed Elsevier and shareholder representative bodies in the UK, the Netherlands Groupplc, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV and will and the US on the proposed new LTIP and the renewal of the ESOS.
besubmitted to shareholders for an advisory vote at the Feedback receivedduring the process shaped the final design of the AnnualGeneral Meeting of Reed Elsevier PLC.
plans, which are being put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meetings in April.
A detailed description of the new plans is The audited parts of the Report contained in the notices of the Annual General Meetings.
In compliance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies In summary, subject to shareholder approval, we are proposing and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, and tointroduce a new three-year LTIP for executive directors and under Title 9, Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands, the approximately another 100 senior executives, as well as renew ESOS following elements of this Report have been audited: the table for around 1,000 employees globally, including executive directors.
entitled Transfer values of accrued pension benets on page The proposed LTIP is based ona roll forward of what has been 83: the tables showing Aggregate emoluments and Individual successfully operated for the 100 executives annually since 2010, fees of non-executive directors on page 86: the tables on thus minimising disruption and maximising stability in our most Individual emoluments of executive directors and Directors senior management population.
shareholdings in Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV on page 87: and the section Share-based awards in Reed Elsevier The proposals for the new plans are based on the same foundations PLC and Reed Elsevier NV on pages 87 to 89. as before, focusing on return on capital, returns to shareholders and sustained earnings growth.
The overall incentive opportunity for executive directors under the multi-year plans remains within the Introduction from Remuneration parameters previously approved by shareholders.
Committee Chairman For 2013, the executive directors will be granted awards under the new LTIP and ESOS, subject to receipt of shareholder approval, Since Erik Engstroms appointment in late 2009, the company has andwill be eligible to participate in the annual incentive plan and made good progress nancially and strategically by systematically thebonus investment plan, as in 2012. transforming the business, primarily through organic development.
The performance related components of the executive directors As in previous years, our approach to preparing this Report has been remuneration arrangements in place since 2010, including the to meet the highest standards of disclosure, balancing in a thoughtful one-off Reed Elsevier Growth Plan REGP, have supported this and responsible manner the UK legislative requirements with best strategy, focusing on return on capital, returns to shareholders practice guidelines on disclosure in the Netherlands.
In preparing andsustained earnings growth.
this Report, the Committee had regard to the approach adopted by other large global businesses subject to disclosure requirements 2012, as reported elsewhere in this Report, was a very solid year and inmore than one jurisdiction.
As in prior years, our aim has been to resulted in annual bonuses for Erik Engstrom, Mark Armour and produce a clear, informative and understandable report.
Duncan Palmer that were slightly above target see pages 78 to 79.
Mark Elliott The first tranche of the REGP will be performance tested in late Chairman, Remuneration Committee April2013 and, as discussed on page 81, preliminary calculations Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 75 General Remuneration Committee to review the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the Constitution remuneration policy, in particular the performance-related Throughout 2012, the Committee consisted of independent elements and their compatibility with risk policies and non-executive directors, as set out in the Structure and corporate systems: governance report, and the Chairman of Reed Elsevier Group plc.
to review and recommend amendments to the rules of all Details of Committee members and meeting attendance are share-based incentive plans including the formulation of contained in the section on Structure and corporate governance suitable performance conditions for share-based awards and on page 66 of the Annual Reports.
The Chief Legal officer & options, and where necessary, to submit them for approval Company Secretary also attends the meetings in his capacity as by shareholders: secretary to the Committee.
At the invitation of the Committee Chairman, the CEO of Reed Elsevier Group plc attends appropriate to maintain an open and ongoing dialogue with institutional parts of the meetings.
The CEO of Reed Elsevier Group plc is not investors on major remuneration policy issues: and inattendance during discussions pertaining to his remuneration.
to discharge its duties with due regard to any published The Global Human Resources Director provided material advice corporate governance guidelines, codes or recommendations to the Committee during the year.
regarding the remuneration of directors of listed companies and formation and operation of share schemes which the Advisers Committee considers relevant or appropriate including, but Towers Watson acted as external advisers to the Committee notlimited to, the UK and Dutch Corporate Governance Codes.
throughout 2012 and also provided market data and data analysis.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Committee can be found Towers Watson also provided actuarial and other human onthe Reed Elsevier website, www.
resources consultancy services directly to some Reed Elsevier companies.
The individual consultants involved in advising the Committee do Executive directors not provide advice to the executive directors or act on their behalf.
Remuneration philosophy and policy The context for Reed Elseviers remuneration policy and practices Terms of reference is set by the needs of a global business with business areas that The Committees responsibilities are as follows: operate internationally by line of business.
Furthermore, Reed Executive directors Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NVs respective stock market to establish the remuneration policy for the executive directors listings in London and Amsterdam, combined with the majority and determine the remuneration in all its forms including ofits employees being based in the US, provides a particular set pensions and share plan participation, the terms of the service ofchallenges in the design and operation of remuneration policy.
contracts and all other terms and conditions of employment ofthe executive directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Our remuneration philosophy ReedElsevier PLC and, on the advice of the Chairman, the Reed Elseviers guiding remuneration philosophy for senior remuneration terms of the CEO with respect to Reed Elsevier executives is based on the following precepts: NV, the Committee recommends to the Supervisory Board the remuneration policy and the remuneration in all its forms for Performance-related compensation with demanding the CEO and other executive directors : and performance standards.
to approve any compensation or termination payments Creation of shareholder value.
madetoexecutive directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Competitive remuneration opportunity to attract and retain ReedElsevier PLC.
thebest executive talent from anywhere in the world.
Senior management A balanced mix of remuneration between xed and variable on the advice of the CEO, to approve the remuneration policy of elements, and annual and longer-term performance.
other senior leaders and of the Chief Legal officer & Company Secretary: and Aligning the interests of executive directors with shareholders and other stakeholders.
to monitor the level and structure of remuneration for this group of executives.
Operating the company consistent with long-term sustainability.
Reed Elsevier Chairman Our remuneration policy on the advice of the Senior Independent Director, to determine In line with this guiding philosophy, our remuneration policy is the remuneration of the Reed Elsevier Chairman with described below.
respectto Reed Elsevier NV, to recommend, on advice of the Senior Independent Director, to the Combined Board the Reed Elsevier aims to provide a total remuneration package Chairmans remuneration in respect of his Chairmanship that is able to attract and retain the best executive talent from ofReed Elsevier NV.
anywhere in the world, at an appropriate level of cost.
In reaching decisions on executive remuneration, the Committee takes into account the remuneration arrangements GOVERNANCE 76 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT We aim to set challenging performance targets as demonstrated and levels of increase applicable to senior management and by the fact that there has been no vesting for directors under any of Reed Elsevier employees generally.
The Committee takes our multi-year incentives since the awards granted in 2006 vested intoaccount the salary increases for the employee population in 2009, and no directors bonuses paid out above target since 2009. worldwide as one of the inputs when determining salary increases for directors.
The balance between xed and performance-related pay The Committee considers the social, governance, and We aim to provide each executive director with an annual total environmental implications of its decisions, particularly when remuneration package comprising xed and variable pay with the setting and assessing performance objectives and targets, majority of an executive directors total remuneration package and seeks to ensure that incentives are consistent with the linked to performance.
At target performance, incentive pay appropriate management of risk and corporate sustainability.
makes up approximately 70% of the total remuneration package.
This is shown for the CEO in the pie chart below.
The core Total targeted remuneration of senior executives will be components of the current total remuneration package are competitive with that of executives in similar positions in described in detail in the remainder of this Report.
comparable companies, which includes global sector peers and companies of similar scale and international complexity.
Competitiveness is assessed in terms of total remuneration i. e. salary, annual and multi-year incentives and benets.
20% Fixed pay elements 30% Salary The intention is to provide total remuneration that reects Pensions and sustained individual and business performance: i. e. median other benets performance will be rewarded by total remuneration that ispositioned around the median of relevant market data 50% 10% Variable pay elements 70% andupper quartile performance by upper quartile total Annual incentive remuneration.
Multi-year incentives The Committee will consider all available discretion to claw back any payouts made, or to reduce unvested awards, on the basis of materially misstated data.
The rules of all incentive 20% plans provide for specic provisions in this regard.
The Committee considers it important to encourage personal The chart below illustrates how our levels of compensation are investment and ongoing holding of Reed Elsevier PLC and or driven by business performance scale in percent of base salary.
Reed Elsevier NV securities among the senior executive This shows the way in which annual remuneration payable to the population.
Executive directors and other senior executives CEO would vary under different performance scenarios.
For the are subject to minimum shareholding requirements.
purposes of this illustration, assumptions have been made in relation to vesting payout levels at the different levels of How the performance measures in the incentives link to our performance.
business strategy Reed Elseviers strategic focus is on transforming its core business through organic investment and the organic build out 700% ofnew products into adjacent markets and geographies, 600% supplemented by selective portfolio acquisitions and divestments.
500% The performance related components of the executive directors multi-year incentives support this strategy by focusing on return 400% on capital, returns to shareholders and sustained earnings 300% growth.
200% Furthermore, our annual incentive plan is focused on operational excellence as measured by the financial measures of revenue, 100% profit and cash generation.
In addition, a significant portion of 0% theannual bonus is dependent upon the achievement of annual Minimum Threshold Target Maximum key performance objectives KPOs that create a platform for sustainable future performance.
These KPOs align with Reed Salary Annual incentive Multi-year incentives Elseviers strategic plans and range from the delivery of specic projects and the achievement of customer metrics or efficiency Our approach to market positioning and benchmarking targets to corporate and social responsibility objectives.
Each When reviewing executive director and senior executive executive director has at least one sustainability or corporate remuneration, one factor which the Committee takes into responsibility objective.
This is done by assessing totalremuneration i. e. salary, annual and multi-year incentives The Committee believes that one of the main drivers of long-term and benets against a range of relevant comparator groups shareholder value is sustained growth in profitability, asfollows: underpinned by appropriate capital discipline.
Therefore, growth in earnings per share and targeted return on invested capital are utilised in our multi-year incentives.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 77 international scope and listing status of specic companies during Global peers operating in businesses similar to those of Reed the year.
Elsevier including Thomson Reuters, WPP, Pearson, John Wiley, Wolters Kluwer, Experian, McGraw-Hill and Equifax.
The competitiveness of our remuneration packages is assessed Companies listed on the London Stock Exchange crossbythe Committee as part of the annual review cycle for pay and industry but excluding those in the financial services sector of performance, in line with the process set out below.
a similar size measured by aggregate market capitalisation First, the overall competitiveness of the total remuneration and international scope.
packages is assessed both against the market and taking Companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange account of remuneration levels within Reed Elsevier more cross-industry but excluding those in the financial services widely.
The appropriate positioning of an individuals total sector of a similar size measured by aggregate market remuneration against the market is determined based on the capitalisation and international scope.
Committees judgement of individual performance and potential.
Companies listed on the NYSE Euronext Amsterdam Stock The Committee then considers market data and benchmarks Exchange, cross-industry and of a similar size measured by forthe different elements of the package including salary, total aggregate market capitalisation and international scope.
annual cash and total remuneration.
While relevant benchmark information is a meaningful input to the process, it informs Referring to companies listed in these three different locations is rather than drives the outcome of the review and is just one relevant and necessary as demonstrated by the fact that several factor that the Committee considers.
recent senior executive hires have been recruited from the US, including our CFO.
Benets, including medical and retirement benets, are positioned to reect local country practice.
The composition of the respective comparator groups is subject tominor changes year on year reecting changes in the size, The total remuneration package Each element of the remuneration package for executive directors is designed to achieve specic objectives, as described in this section.
In aggregate, they create a unied and balanced reward mix and competitive employment proposition.
The value of the reward package is only maximised through the integrated delivery of annual and longer-term performance.
Reward for the delivery of business results is connected with reward for value owing to shareholders.
Through the use of a range of performance metrics such as earnings per share, return on invested capital, profit after tax, revenue, cash ow conversion rate, personal objectives and total shareholder return and the assessment of performance over multiple time-horizons, the incentive arrangements are structured in such a way that reward cannot be maximised through inappropriate short-term risk-taking.
The table below summarises the component parts of the remuneration package provided in 2012 to executive directors who served in 2012.
Component Erik Engstrom Mark Armour Duncan Palmer Annual base salary page 78 1,050,625 644,495 600,000 Retirement benets page 83 UK dened benefit plan UK dened benefit plan UK dened contribution plan and cash supplement Other benets Includes car allowance and Includes company car or Includes car allowance and private medical benefit car allowance and private private medical benefit medical benefit 1,149,909 Annual incentive pages 78 to 79 693,799 230,205 earned for 2012 and payable in March 2013 Multi-year incentives ESOS Market value options over n a Market value options over granted page 79 198,836 PLC and 139,742 NV 67,331 PLC and 48,018 NV ordinary shares ordinary shares BIP 68,475 NV ADRs 90,987 PLC and 21,028 NV n a ordinary shares PSP n a n a 179,551 PLC shares Shareholding requirement page 82 300% of salary 200% of salary 200% of salary No multi-year incentives vested in 2012.
Multi-year incentives from previous years lapsed in early 2012 as already described in last year's Report.
Mark Armour served as a director until 31 December 2012.
Additional awards were made to Duncan Palmer in conjunction with his recruitment.
Further details are contained on page 84.
GOVERNANCE 78 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT For 2013, the minimum threshold on the financial elements of Base salary theAIP at which a bonus starts to accrue is 94% of target and the Salary reects the role and the sustained value of the executive in maximum bonus is 150% of target unchanged from 2012. terms of skills, experience and contribution in the context of the The KPOs are individual to each executive director.
director is set up to six KPOs to reect critical business priorities Salaries for executive directors are reviewed annually in the for which he is accountable.
The KPO component for the executive context of the competitiveness of total remuneration and directors and other senior executives will contain at least one KPO Reed Elseviers guidelines for wages and salaries agreed for relating to the achievement of specic sustainability objectives the whole of Reed Elsevier for the forthcoming financial year.
and targets contained within Reed Elseviers corporate Any increases typically take effect on 1 January.
The Committee decided to award a salary increase of 2.5% to Against each objective, measurable milestone targets are set ErikEngstrom, which increased his base salary with effect from forthe year.
All financial targets and KPOs are approved by the 1January 2013 to 1,076,891.
Duncan Palmers service agreement Committee and are subject to formal assessment at the end of provides that his first salary review following commencement of each year.
The Chairman of Reed Elsevier Group plc presents employment would be on or around 1 January 2014, so his base hisassessment of performance against KPOs for the CEO of salary remains unchanged for 2013.
In determining the salary ReedElsevier Group plc to the Committee while the CEO of recommendation for the CEO, the Committee considered, among ReedElsevier Group plc presents his assessment of KPO other inputs, 2013 salary guidance for Reed Elseviers most performance for the CFO of Reed Elsevier Group plc.
The significant employee locations globally.
The increase awarded to Committee then discusses and agrees the final KPO score the CEO is within the guidelines agreed for those employees in foreach executive director.
AIP payments for 2012 In respect of salaries for the broader employee population, In assessing the level of bonus payments for 2012, the Committee ReedElsevier uses the same factors to determine the levels of noted the following performances: increase across all employee populations globally: i. e. relevant pay market, skills, experience and contribution.
Reed Elsevier % change over 2011 at constant exchange rates operates across many diverse countries in terms of their Underlying Total adjusted remuneration structures and practices.
Any increases awarded revenue growth PAT todifferent employee groups in different geographies reect Reed Elsevier 4% 8% thisdiversity and range of practices.
An average increase ofapproximately 2.5% will be awarded across the senior Reed Elsevier executed well on its strategic and financial priorities management population globally for 2013.
This level of increase is in 2012.
Positive revenue momentum and focus on operating in line with increases provided to the wider employee population.
efficiency combined to lift underlying operating profit growth and earnings.
Underlying revenues, which exclude the effects of Annual incentive currency translation and acquisitions and disposals, were up 4%, or 3% excluding the cycling effect of biennial exhibitions, and all The Annual Incentive Plan AIP provides focus on the delivery of five business areas contributed to the underlying growth.
stretching annual financial targets and the achievement of annual Underlying adjusted operating profits were up 6%, with the objectives and milestones that create a platform for sustainable improvement in profitability driven by a combination of process future performance.
innovation and portfolio development across all business areas.
For 2013, executive directors have a target bonus opportunity of Underlying costs were up 4%, reecting volume growth as well 100% of salary that is weighted as follows across four elements asorganic investment in new product development and sales & unchanged from 2012 : marketing, partly offset by continued improvements in process efficiency.
Adjusted operating cash ow was 1,603m 2011: Measure Weighting 1,515m, up 6% compared with the prior year and up 7% at Revenue 30% constant currencies.
The rate of conversion of adjusted operating Adjusted profit After Tax 30% profits into cash ow was 94% 2011: 93%.
Returns on invested Cash Flow Conversion Rate 10% capital increased to 11.9%, 0.7 percentage points higher than Key Performance Objectives KPOs 30% in2011, reecting the improved trading performance and capitalefciency.
The target bonus opportunity for the financial measures is payable for the achievement of highly stretching financial targets.
The four elements are measured separately, such that there could be a payout on one element and not on others.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 79 Multi-year incentives Set out below is a summary of the outcome of performance against each financial measure: It is intended to continue to provide executive directors with multi-year incentives comprising a combination of a long-term Revenue Just above target incentive plan LTIP, a personal investment bonus deferral plan Adjusted profit BIP and market value options ESOS.
To this end, a new LTIP Just above target AfterTax andESOS are proposed and will be presented for shareholder approval at the 2013 Annual General Meetings AGMs.
Cash Flow Just above target ConversionRate The purpose of the multi-year incentives is to provide focus on thedelivery of the medium to longer-term strategy and holding The progress on personal objectives for each director was then executives accountable for the execution of that strategy while added in the form of the KPO score and, overall, the sum of the driving value creation through sustained financial performance, scores achieved against the four AIP components for the executive capital discipline and the delivery of returns for shareholders.
directors, resulted in the following bonuses for 2012: Inaddition, the multi-year incentives are structured so as to 2012 annual bonus % of 2012 base encourage personal investment and require a minimum level of to be paid in March 2013 salary earnings ongoing personal shareholding in Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Erik Engstrom 1,149,909 109.5% Elsevier NV securities among the senior executive population, Mark Armour 693,799 107.7% inorder to promote alignment with shareholders and to provide Duncan Palmer 230,205 107.7% focus on the share price.
Duncan Palmers bonus reects service during the year of reporting.
His service Awards under the current and proposed multi-year incentives vest commenced on 24 August 2012. over a period of three years, except for the one-off REGP under which awards vest over three and five years.
The vesting of all awards made to executive directors under these plans is subject to meeting a number of stretching performance targets based on internal financial metrics and total shareholder return.
Reed Elsevier Growth Plan REGP The details of the REGP have been disclosed in previous years' Reports.
MECHANICS The chart below illustrates how the REGP operates: 3 YEARS: 2010-12 H1 2013 2 YEARS: 2013-14 H1 2015 Release of deferred For the CEO, 50% of performance shares performance shares are released.
For the to CEO Release of remaining 50% of the retired CFO Mark performance shares is deferred until Armour, 100% of H1 of 2015 subject to continued employment performance shares are released and he Subject to performance against three metrics, ceases to participate up to a 1 for 1 match can be earned over years in the plan.
4 and 5 on the deferred performance shares Performance EPS TSR EPS TSR tested Release of matching 1 3RD 1 3RD 1 3RD 1 3RD Performance share Performance shares earned award of 600% share award to CEO of salary ROIC ROIC 1 3RD 1 3RD On the date of grant, the CEO committed 300% of salary and the CFO Mark Armour 200% of salary in shares to the plan Release of committed which must be retained throughout the life of the plan or until For the CEO, subject to performance against the holding the regular shareholding the executive directors cease to be eligible for further payouts, three metrics, up to a 1 for 1 match can be earned guidelines continue if earlier over years 4 and 5 on the personal shareholding committed under the plan to apply to the CEO Overall payout from the plan to each director is capped at 150% of the shares comprised in the performance share award GOVERNANCE 80 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Performance measures and targets Return on invested capital ROIC The vesting of one third of the REGP award is subject to the Total Shareholder Return TSR percentage return on invested capital of Reed Elsevier PLC and The vesting of one third of the REGP award is subject to Reed Reed Elsevier NV the ROIC tranche as follows: Elseviers TSR performance compared against three comparator 3 years: 2 years: Vesting percentage groups the TSR tranche.
2010-12 2013-14 of ROIC tranche As Reed Elsevier accesses equity capital markets through three ROIC in 2012, subject to ROIC in 2014 exchanges London, Amsterdam and New York in three separate actual exceeding 2009 currency zones, three distinct comparator groups are used a ROIC calculated on the Sterling Comparator Group, a Euro Comparator Group and a US same basis Dollar Comparator Group.
The TSR performance of Reed Elsevier Below 10.2% Below 10.7% 0% PLC ordinary shares based on the London listing is measured 10.2% 10.7% 60% against the Sterling Comparator Group, the TSR performance of 11.2% or above 12.7% or above 100% Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares based on the Amsterdam listing is measured against the Euro Comparator Group: and the Vesting is on a straight-line basis for performance between the TSR performance of Reed Elsevier PLC ADRs and Reed Elsevier minimum and maximum levels.
NV ADRs based on the New York listing is measured against the For the purposes of the plan, the following denitions apply: US Dollar Comparator Group.
The averaging period applied for TSRmeasurement purposes is six months prior to the start of the Invested capital arithmetic average of the opening and closing financial year in which the award was made and the final six months capital employed for the Reed Elsevier combined businesses of the last financial year of the performance period.
for the financial year with all cumulative amortisation and impairment charges for acquired intangible assets and TSR performance of each security is measured separately against goodwill added back.
In addition, any exceptional restructuring each comparator group and the proportion of the TSR tranche that and acquisition integration charges net of tax are capitalised vests is the sum of the payouts achieved against the three for these purposes and changes in exchange rates and comparator groups.
movements in pension deficits are excluded.
3 year period: 5 year period: Return adjusted operating profit for the Reed Elsevier 2010-12 2010-14 combined businesses before amortisation and impairment TSR ranking within the Vesting percentage Vesting percentage relevant TSR of each third of the of each third of the ofacquired intangible assets and goodwill, exceptional comparatorgroup TSR tranche TSR tranche restructuring and acquisition integration charges.
In addition, Below median 0% 0% it is grossed up to exclude the equity share of taxes in joint Median 30% 30% ventures and further adjusted to exclude net pension nancing Upper quartile 100% 100% credit movement, after applying the effective rate of tax used for adjusted earnings calculations and using exchange rates Vesting is on a straight-line basis for ranking between the median tomatch those used in the calculation of invested capital.
In order to ensure that the performance score achieved is a fair TSR comparators groups reection of underlying business performance, the Committee The consituents of each comparator group were selected on a retains discretion to determine the treatment of major disposals specic basis, as described in last year's Report page 69. and acquisitions that require board approval.
Any significant adjustments made to the final performance score will be The comparators which were included in each currency group disclosed to shareholders.
areset out on page 70 of last years Report.
The Committee retains discretion as to how to deal with changes to the comparator groups as a result of demergers, fide-listings or other corporate events over the performance period and applies its policy in this regard in an appropriate manner.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 81 Adjusted earnings per share EPS Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The vesting of one third of the REGP award is subject to No awards under the LTIP were made to executive directors in performance against growth in adjusted earnings per share 2012 and no award cycles remain outstanding for directors under measured at constant currencies Adjusted EPS the EPS this plan.
tranche as follows: A long-term incentive award was granted to senior leaders below the Board in 2012.
Grants are made on a rolling three-year basis in 3 years: 2 years: Vesting percentage 2010-12 2013-14 of EPS tranche the form of performance shares that vest subject to performance metrics and vesting scales consistent with the REGP.
The targets Average Adjusted Average set for each metric are aligned to the five-year performance scale EPS growth in years Adjusted EPS applicable to the executive directors under the REGP.
2011 and 2012 growth over the subject to average two year period Subject to receipt of shareholder approval at the 2013 AGMs, Adjusted EPS growth over it is intended to commence making annual grants under a new the whole three year long-term incentive plan to executive directors from 2013 period being positive onwards, under which the first awards would vest in H1 2016.
60% Details of the proposed new LTIP are described in the 2013 notices 9% p. a. or above 13% p. a. or above 100% of AGMs of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
Vesting is on a straight-line basis for performance between the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS minimum and maximum levels.
The current ESOS, which was approved by shareholders in 2003, expires on 8 April 2013.
A replacement ESOS, for which we are For the purposes of the plan, the following denitions apply: seeking shareholder approval at the AGMs in April 2013, is Earnings adjusted reported earnings measured at constant described in the notices of AGMs and it is intended to make grants currencies.
Adjustments include amortisation and impairment under this plan to around 1,000 employees globally, including the of acquired intangible assets and goodwill, exceptional executive directors, in 2013.
It is not intended to make any further restructuring and acquisition integration charges, gains grants under the existing ESOS, the key features of which were losses on business disposals and tax rate anomalies deferred described in last years remuneration report on page 71. tax.
The Committee retains discretion to adjust for changes During 2012, Erik Engstrom received a grant of 200% of base in the net pension nancing credit.
salary of market value options two-thirds of the permitted Number of shares weighted average number of shares in maximum.
On joining, Duncan Palmer received a grant of 135% of issue excluding shares held in treasury.
The vesting of the options is subject to a 6% p. a. compound growth in adjusted earnings per share hurdle, measured at Performance share awards were granted under the REGP to constant currencies over a three-year period commencing on MrEngstrom and Mr Armour in May 2010.
At its meeting on 25 April 1January of the year of grant the same condition also applies 2013, the Committee will assess the extent to which the tothe 2011 ESOS grants which were made to Erik Engstrom performance conditions have been met for these share awards, andMark Armour.
In view of his retirement at the end of 2012, which includes an overall assessment of underlying business MarkArmour did not receive an ESOS grant in 2012. performance and other relevant factors.
Based on a review of thethree performance measures used in the plan, preliminary Early in 2012, as disclosed in last year's Report, the 2009-11 cycle calculations indicate that 66.8% of the awards are expected to vest.
of ESOS lapsed for Erik Engstrom and Mark Armour.
This is based on a TSR ranking of just above median in respect of two of the comparator groups, ROIC achievement slightly below the Bonus Investment Plan BIP 11.2% maximum after taking into account adjustments for such The BIP is a voluntary plan aimed at encouraging personal items as foreign exchange rates, pension deficits and acquisition investment in, and ongoing holding of, Reed Elsevier shares to integration costs as provided in the plan, andEPS growth slightly promote greater alignment with shareholders and support the above the middle of the range specified in the plan.
This would result in 429,710 PLC ordinary shares and 282,187 NV Under the BIP, participants may invest their own funds to purchase ordinary shares vesting in respect of Erik Engstrom.
50% of these Reed Elsevier securities or allocate securities already owned shares will be released to Mr Engstrom following the April outright for investment under the plan up to a specified maximum.
Committee meeting and 50% of these shares will be deferred until In return, the participant is granted a matching award which vests 2015.
In respect of Mr Armour, under the terms of the plan relating over three years subject to performance i. e. a maximum match of to retirement, 100% of the shares vesting will be released to him 1 for 1 can be earned on the personal investment.
It is a condition following the April Committee meeting.
In accordance with the of vesting that the underlying personal investment is retained preliminary vesting calculations, this will result in 263,601 PLC throughout the vesting period.
Dividend equivalents accrue on the ordinary shares and 173,105 NV ordinary shares being released to matching shares during the vesting period and are paid out in cash Mr Armour.
Thereafter, Mr Armour will have no further entitlement at the end to the extent that the matching award vests.
The table for payment under this plan.
Dividend equivalents will be payable overleaf summarises the key features of the BIP.
incash on any shares released which, based on the preliminary calculations, would result in payments of 135,251 and 179,329 toMr Engstrom and 165,937 and 220,016 to Mr Armour.
GOVERNANCE 82 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Bonus Investment Plan BIP Overview Feature Detail Frequency of award Annual grants of matching awards Ten-year life of the plan Implemented in 2010 Eligibility Approximately 150 senior executives including executive directors Participation is voluntary Performance period Three financial years Performance conditions Average adjusted EPS growth measured in constant currencies and ROIC see below 50% of the award is subject to adjusted EPS growth and 50% subject to ROIC Vesting scale Performance hurdle and straight-line vesting Personal investment Up to 100% of the target bonus opportunity net of tax Other provisions On a change of control, awards vest on a pro-rated basis and subject to performance based on an assessment of progress against targets at the time the change of control occurs, unless the Committee determines that awards should not vest and instead be exchanged for equivalent awards over shares in the acquiring company i. e. rollover applies Claw-back applies Awards under the plan are satisfied with shares purchased in the market The following targets and vesting scale apply to awards granted Shareholding requirement under the BIP in 2012: The Committee believes that one of the aspects that creates closer alignment between senior management and shareholders is to Average growth ROIC % in the in Adjusted EPS % third year of the require executives to build up and maintain a significant personal Match earned on over the 3 year performance stake in Reed Elsevier.
The shareholding requirements applicable personal investment performance period period to the executive directors are set out in the table below and, as 0% below 4% p. a. below 11% described on page 79, were pre-requisites to participate in the 50% 4% p. a.
Shareholding requirements also apply to selected senior 75% 6.5% p. a.
100% 9% p. a. or above 12% or above Meeting the relevant shareholding requirement is both a condition of the vesting of awards as well as a pre-requisite to maintain The targets for the 2010-12 and 2011-13 cycles of BIP are set out in eligibility to receive future awards under the multi-year last years Report.
Awards were granted under the BIP to Mr Engstrom and Mr Armour On 31 December 2012, the executive directors shareholdings in May 2010.
At its meeting on 25 April 2013, in much the same way were as follows valued at the mid-market closing prices of as for the REGP, the Committee will assess the extent to which the ReedElsevier securities : performance conditions have been met for these awards, which includes an overall assessment of underlying business Actual shareholding as at Shareholding requirement 31December 2012 in % of performance and other relevant factors.
in% of 31 December 2012 31December 2012 annualised base salary annualised base salary Based on a review of the two performance measures used in the plan, preliminary calculations indicate that 89.5% of the awards Erik Engstrom 300% 512% are expected to vest.
This is based on ROIC achievement slightly Mark Armour 200% 442% below the 11.2% maximum after taking into account adjustments Duncan Palmer 200% 0% for such items as foreign exchange rates, pension deficits and Duncan Palmer has until 31 December 2015 to build up to his required level of restructuring costs as provided in the plan, and EPS growth just shareholding and must retain any net shares earned from Reed Elsevier share plans below the 70th percentile of the target range specified in the plan.
until he meets his requirement.
This would result in the vesting of 62,819 NV ADR matching awards Other employee share plans in respect of Mr Engstrom and a corresponding cash dividend The CEO and Mr Palmer have waived their right to participate equivalent payment of $178,181.
In respect of Mr Armour, 58,223 inany local all-employee share-based plans in any country, PLC ordinary shares and 38,048 NV ordinary shares would be including the HMRC approved all-employee UK Savings-Related released, with corresponding dividend equivalent payments of Share Option Scheme SAYE.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 83 Retirement benets From 1 November 2007 contributions to his designated retirement account ceased and he became a member of the UK dened Retirement benefit provisions are set in the context of the total benefit pension arrangement.
remuneration for each executive director, taking account of age and service and against the background of evolving legislation The pension arrangements for Erik Engstrom include life andpractice in Reed Elseviers major countries of operation.
assurance cover while in employment, an entitlement to a pension Basesalary is the only pensionable element of remuneration.
in the event of ill health or disability and a spouses and or dependants pension on death.
Erik Engstrom is provided with UK dened benefit pension arrangements under which he accrues a pension of 1 30th of The increase in the transfer value of the directors pensions, after salary for every year of service up to a maximum of two thirds deduction of contributions, is shown in the table below.
The pension is provided through a combination of: values have been calculated in accordance with the guidance note GN11 published by the UK Institute of Actuaries and Faculty of the main UK Reed Elsevier Pension Scheme for salary Actuaries.
The transfer values at 31 December 2012 have been restricted to the Scheme Earnings Cap, determined annually calculated using the transfer value basis adopted by the trustees on the same basis as the pre-April 2006 Inland Revenue of the Reed Elsevier Pension Scheme.
earnings cap and HMRC Annual Allowance, and The transfer value in respect of individual directors represents a Reed Elseviers unapproved pension arrangement for liability in respect of directors pension entitlement, and is not an thebalance.
amount paid or payable to the director.
Prior to 1 November 2007, Erik Engstrom was not a member of Mark Armour retired on 31 December 2012, at which point he anycompany pension scheme and Reed Elsevier made annual became entitled to a pension of 378,785 per annum.
contributions of 19.5% of his salary to his personal pension plan.
Transfer values of accrued pension benets Transfer value at 31 December Increase in 2012 of Increase in accrued increase Transfer Transfer transfer Increase in annual in accrued value value value during Accrued accrued pension pension of accrued of accrued the year annual annual during during the year Age at pension at pension at net of pension at pension the year net of ination 31 December Directors 31 December 31 December directors 31 December during net of and directors 2012 contributions 2011 2012 contributions 2012 the year ination contributions Erik Engstrom 49 9,158 2,099,132 2,730,651 622,361 180,958 38,584 31,750 469,944 Mark Armour 58 1,944 6,758,053 7,525,908 765,911 384,878 30,355 13,362 259,332 The reason for the difference between Mr Armour's accrued annual pension as at 31.12.12 as stated in the table above, and the annual pension entitlement following retirement is that Mr Armour retired early so there was a reduction made to his accrued annual pension as at 31.12.12.
Duncan Palmer is a member of the UK Reed Elsevier dened balance is paid to him as a cash allowance, subject to deduction of contribution pension plan the Reed Elsevier Pension Plan income tax and national insurance.
The pension arrangement for REPP.
The company contribution is 19% of MrPalmers salary.
Mr Palmer includes life assurance cover while inemployment.
50,000 is paid as a contribution to the REPP, being the maximum contribution which can be made under HMRC limits, and the GOVERNANCE 84 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Service contracts non-competition restrictions apply which prevent the Executive directors are employed under service contracts that executive from working in a capacity which competes with any provide for a maximum of one years notice.
The contracts neither Reed Elsevier business which he she was involved with during specify a predetermined level of severance payment nor contain the preceding 12 months: from recruiting Reed Elsevier specic provisions in respect of a change in control.
The employees and from soliciting Reed Elsevier customers and Committee believes that, as a general rule, notice periods should suppliers for a period of 12 months after leaving employment: be 12 months and that the executive directors should, subject to in the event of the executive resigning, he she will immediately any legal constraints within their base country, be required to lose all rights to any outstanding awards under the multi-year mitigate their losses in the event of termination.
The Committee incentives including any vested but unexercised options: and will, however, note local market conditions so as to ensure that the terms offered are appropriate to attract and retain top executives in the event of a breach of the covenants, any gains made or operating in global businesses.
payouts received, in the period starting six months prior to andending 12 months after leaving employment, on the vesting The contractual terms of the executive directors and for or exercise of awards from the multi-year incentives may approximately 100 other senior executives include certain berepayable.
covenants as follows: Each executive director has a service contract with Reed Elsevier Group plc, as summarised in the table below.
Current contract date Date employment commenced Expiry date subject to notice period Notice period Subject to Erik Engstrom 14 March 2011 23 August 2004 14 June 2028 12 months English law Ceased to be a director and Mark Armour 7 October 1996 1 February 1995 retired on 31 December 2012 12 months English law Duncan Palmer 15 August 2012 24 August 2012 n a 12 months English law Duncan Palmers remuneration arrangements from his former employer.
They are subject to a time pro-rated Duncan Palmers annual base salary on his recruitment was claw-back if he resigns, or is summarily terminated, before 600,000 and he has an annual target bonus opportunity of 100% the date of the announcement of the 2014 annual results in of base salary.
He will be eligible to participate in BIP from 2013 2015. onwards up to his target bonus opportunity and to participate in The Committee considered the grant of performance shares and the new ESOS and LTIP, subject to shareholders approving those restricted shares noted above to have been essential to secure plans.
He will receive annual pension contributions equal to 19% Duncan Palmer's services.
The Committee was satisfied that of salary and benets in accordance with the policies applicable theawards are appropriate and align his interests with those of to executive directors.
Both awards fall within paragraph 9.4.
2 2 R of theUK Listing Rules and were granted over Reed Elsevier PLC In addition, in September 2012, he was granted the following ordinary shares, but half of each award will be settled on vesting awards: with Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares.
The awards cannot be A market value option under ESOS to acquire shares with a face amended to the advantage of Duncan Palmer without shareholder value on the date of grant of 135% of base salary, which vests on approval and the documentation governing these awards will be the 3rd anniversary of grant subject to achieving at least 6% available for inspection from the date of the notices of the 2013 p. a. compound growth in adjusted EPS at constant currencies Annual General Meetings up to and including the meetings over the three year performance period from 1 January 2012 themselves.
In recognition of Mr Palmer and his family having to relocate to Performance shares PSP with an aggregate face value the UK in order for him to take up his new position, he will receive of 180% of base salary, which are subject to the same a one-off cash relocation allowance of 500,000 in May 2013 performance targets as will apply to any matching award subject to a time pro-rated claw-back if he resigns or is that may be granted to the CEO under the REGP in 2013, with summarily terminated prior to 31 December 2014 and relocation performance being assessed in the first half of 2015.
The award support under the standard Reed Elsevier policy.
is non-pensionable and carries a right to receive dividend equivalents calculated on the same basis as under the REGP.
"Mark Armours retirement terms The leaver rules are consistent with those which apply under Mark Armour's retirement terms were disclosed in last years the REGP with the exception that ""retirement with the consent remuneration report page 74. of the company"" is not automatically treated as an approved leaver reason for the performance share award."
Policy on external appointments Restricted shares RSP with an aggregate face value of 250% The Committee believes that the experience gained by allowing of base salary, which vest 50% in 2014 and 50% in 2015 provided executive directors to serve as non-executive directors on the all unvested stock-based awards granted to him by his previous boards of other organisations is of benefit to Reed Elsevier.
This one-off grant of restricted shares was Accordingly, executive directors may, subject to the approval of the made to compensate Mr Palmer for the forfeiture of awards Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 85 Chairman and the Chief Executive officer, serve as non-executive benefit, except for the following: the Chairman receives private directors on the boards of up to two non-associated companies medical benefit and non-executive directors and the Chairman are of which only one may be to the board of a major company and provided with tax ling support to meet any tax ling obligations they may retain remuneration arising from such appointments.
arising from their directorships with Reed Elsevier in countries other than their home country.
Mark Armour is a non-executive director of SABMiller plc and received remuneration of 106,250 during 2012 100,694 Fees may be reviewed annually, although in practice they have during 2011.
He is also a non-executive director of the Financial changed on a less frequent basis.
The last fee review was during Reporting Council FRC and received remuneration of 12,500 2011 and the current fee arrangements took effect on 1 January since commencing his appointment on 2 July 2012.
Duncan Palmer is a non-executive director of Oshkosh The fees for 2013 are unchanged from 2012 and are set out below.
Corporation and received fees of 15,487 since his appointment Annual fee 2013 as a director of Reed Elsevier PLC up to the end of 2012.
Chairman 550,000 Non-executive directors 65,000 80,000 Senior Independent Director 20,000 Non-executive directors Chairman of: Policy on non-executive directors fees Audit Committee 25,000 30,000 The policy on non-executive directors fees is a matter for Remuneration Committee 20,000 the Boards, subject to applicable law and, with respect to Reed Elsevier NV, the shareholders, and does not fall within The total annual fee payable to Marike van Lier Lels is 65,000 the Committees remit.
The Chairman of Reed Elsevier does not receive committee chairman fees.
Reed Elsevier seeks to recruit non-executive directors with the experience to contribute to the boards of a dual-listed global business and with a balance of personal skills that will make a Total Shareholder Return graphs major contribution to the Boards and their committee structures.
With the exception of Marike van Lier Lels who serves only on the As required by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Supervisory Board of Reed Elsevier NV, non-executive directors, Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, the graphs in including the Chairman, are appointed to the Boards of Reed this section show the Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Elsevier Group plc, Reed Elsevier PLC and the Supervisory Board total shareholder return performance, assuming dividends were of Reed Elsevier NV.
Non-executive directors fees reect the reinvested.
They compare the Reed Elsevier PLC performance directors membership of the three Boards.
with that achieved by the FTSE 100, and the Reed Elsevier NV performance with the performance achieved by the AEX The primary source for comparative market data is the practice Index, over the five-year period from 31December 2007 to of FTSE 50 companies, although reference is also made to NYSE 31 December 2012.
Euronext Amsterdam AEX Index and US-listed companies.
For the five-year period from 31 December 2007, the TSR for Non-executive directors, including the Chairman, serve under ReedElsevier PLC was 22.6%, against a FTSE 100 return of 11.7%.
letters of appointment and are not entitled to notice of, or For Reed Elsevier NV during the same period, TSR was 8.4% payments following, retirement from the Boards.
against an AEX Index return of minus 19%.
These indices are relevant since Reed Elsevier PLC is a member of the FTSE 100 Fee levels index and Reed Elsevier NV is a member of the AEX Index.
Non-executive directors receive an annual fee in respect of their memberships of the Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier Group plc.
The fee paid to Marike van Lier Lels, who serves only on the Supervisory Board of Reed Elsevier NV, reects her time commitment to that company and to other companies within the Reed Elsevier combined businesses.
Non-executive directors are reimbursed for expenses incurred in attending meetings.
They do not receive any performance-related bonuses, pension provision, share options or other forms of GOVERNANCE 86 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT REED ELSEVIER NV v AEX 5 YEARS REED ELSEVIER PLC v FTSE 100 5 YEARS 140% 140% 120% 120% 100% 100% 80% 80% 60% 60% 40% 40% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Reed Elsevier PLC FTSE 100 Reed Elsevier NV AEX For the purposes of the charts, the total shareholder return is calculated on the basis of the average share price in the 30 trading days prior to the respective year end and on the assumption that dividends were reinvested.
Directors emoluments and fees Remuneration and share tables Aggregate emoluments The information set out in this section forms part of the audited The emoluments of the directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed disclosures in this Report.
For the purposes of the disclosures in Elsevier NV including any entitlement to fees or emoluments this section, the average exchange rates for the relevant year from either Reed Elsevier Group plc or Elsevier Reed Finance BV havebeen used.
were as follows: 2012 2011 000 000 Salaries and fees 2,972 2,590 Benets 89 56 Annual performance-related bonuses 2,074 1,634 Pension contributions 44 42 Total 5,179 4,322 Individual fees of non-executive directors 2012 2011 Mark Elliott 85,000 70,000 Anthony Habgood 550,000 500,000 Adrian Hennah from 20 April 2011 65,000 38,475 Lisa Hook 65,000 55,000 Marike van Lier Lels 52,846 41,739 Robert Polet 65,000 55,000 Sir David Reid 85,000 75,000 Lord Sharman until 20 April 2011 18,333 Linda Sanford from 4 December 2012 5,416 Ben van der Veer 89,431 82,609 Total 1,062,693 936,156 The above gures exclude an imputed notional benefit in respect of tax ling support provided to non-executive directors for tax lings in countries other than their home country resulting from their directorship with Reed Elsevier.
The incremental assessable benefit charge per relevant tax return has been agreed by PwC to amount to 300.
Excludes private medical insurance benefit of 1,389 in respect of 2012 1,329 in 2011.
The fees for Marike van Lier Lels and Ben van der Veer are paid in euro and were 65,000 and 110,000 respectively for 2012 48,000 and 95,000 respectively for 2011.
Forreporting purposes these were converted into pounds sterling at the average exchange rate for the year of reporting.
Other required disclosures No loans, advances or guarantees have been provided on behalf of any director.
As disclosed in last year's Report, the 2009-11 cycle of awards made under ESOS and LTIP lapsed in early 2012 for Erik Engstrom and Mark Armour.
The executive directors made no pre-tax gains during 2012 on any multi-year incentives, except for Mark Armour, who made a gain of 1,185 on the exercise of vested options during the year.
Details are shown on page 88.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 87 Individual emoluments of executive directors Salary Benets Bonus Total 2012 Total 2011 Erik Engstrom 1,050,625 28,396 1,149,909 2,228,930 2,075,417 Mark Armour 644,495 23,984 693,799 1,362,278 1,263,563 Duncan Palmer 213,846 32,878 230,205 476,929 n a Total 1,908,966 85,258 2,073,913 4,068,137 3,338,980 The benets gure for Duncan Palmer includes the balance of his company pension contribution which is paid to him as a cash allowance, as detailed under the Retirement Benets section on page 83, which, for 2012, was 22,810.
Market value options awarded under ESOS and restricted shares awarded in the year of reporting under the BIP are set out by executive director on pages 88-89.
Vesting is subject to performance conditions relating to growth in adjusted EPS and ROIC as described in the front section of this Report.
The maximum number of options that can vest under the ESOS and the maximum number of restricted shares that can vest under the BIP is equivalent to the awards granted.
The maximum number of shares which can vest under the September 2012 grants of performance share awards and restricted share awards to Duncan Palmer is equivalent to the awards granted.
Erik Engstrom was the highest paid director in 2012.
Directors shareholdings in Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV The interests of those individuals who were directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV as at 31 December 2012 in the issued share capital of the respective companies at the beginning and end of the year are shown below: Reed Elsevier PLC Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares ordinary shares 1 January 31 December 1 January 31 December 2012 2012 2012 2012 Mark Armour 248,742 250,242 136,889 136,889 Mark Elliott 7,600 7,600 Erik Engstrom 107,040 107,040 447,356 509,556 Anthony Habgood 50,000 50,000 25,000 25,000 Adrian Hennah 5,163 5,163 Lisa Hook 4,800 Marike van Lier Lels Duncan Palmer Robert Polet 1,000 1,000 Sir David Reid Linda Sanford Ben van der Veer 5,000 5,000 On date of appointment if subsequent to 1 January 2012.
There have been no changes in the interests of the current directors serving as at the date of this Report in the issued share capital ofReed Elsevier PLC or Reed Elsevier NV at the date of this Report.
Share-based awards in Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Details of vested options shown in orange and unvested options and restricted shares held by executive directors in Reed Elsevier PLC PLC and Reed Elsevier NV NV as at 31 December 2012 are shown in the tables overleaf.
Any awards that have been described as lapsed in prior year reports have been excluded.
The shading in the tables denotes awards granted during the year of reporting.
The vesting of outstanding unvested awards is subject to performance conditions in accordance with the provisions of the respective plan rules, except for the RSP award granted to Mr Palmer on joining Reed Elsevier.
The conditions of vesting of this award are set out on page84 of this Report.
For disclosure purposes, any PLC and NV ADRs awarded under the BIP have been converted into ordinary share equivalents.
At the date of this Report there have been no changes in the options or restricted shares held by executive directors in ofce at the date of this Report.
The market price at the date of award of grants made under the multi-year incentives are based on the middle market price of the respective security.
GOVERNANCE 88 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Erik Engstrom OPTIONS No.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 89 SHARES No.
of options options options Market gains options held on granted exercised price per made on held on Unvested Options Year of Option 1 Jan during Option during share at exercise 31 Dec options exercisable grant over: 2012 2012 price 2012 exercise 2012 vesting on: until: ESOS 2012 PLC ord 67,331 6.015 67,331 7 Sept 2015 7 Sept 2022 NV ord 48,018 10.560 48,018 7 Sept 2015 7 Sept 2022 Total PLC ords 67,331 67,331 Total NV ords 48,018 48,018 SHARES No.
of Notional unvested shares shares Market shares Market gross shares held on awarded price per vested price per gains at held on Date of Year of Type of 1 Jan during share at during share at vesting 31 Dec performance Date of grant security 2012 2012 award 2012 vesting 2012 testing release PSP 2012 PLC ord 179,551 6.015 179,551 H1 2015 H1 2015 RSP 2012 PLC ord 249,376 6.015 249,376 50% H1 2014 50% H1 2015 Total PLC ords 428,927 428,927 Total NV ords Half of Duncan Palmers 2012 PSP and RSP awards which vest, if any, will be settled with Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares.
The number of NV shares will be calculated using the closing price of a Reed Elsevier NV share and the euro pound sterling exchange rate on the date of grant.
GOVERNANCE 90 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Other required disclosures in respect of share-based awards Dilution The number of shares and options that vest in respect of all At 31 December 2012, the estimated potential dilution over a outstanding unvested awards under the multi-year incentives ten-year period from awards over Reed Elsevier PLC shares depend on the extent to which performance conditions are met, under all share-based plans was 4.7% of the Reed Elsevier PLC except for the RSP grant to Duncan Palmer which vests subject share capital.
The estimated potential dilution over the same toan ongoing employment condition.
period in respect of awards over Reed Elsevier NV shares was 4.9% of the Reed Elsevier NV share capital at 31 December 2012.
In respect of the REGP grant to Erik Engstrom, the maximum The estimated potential dilution in relation to executive number of shares that can vest is 150% of the number of shares share-based plans was 4.3% of the Reed Elsevier PLC and 4.5% shown in the tables above.
In respect of ESOS and BIP, the number ofthe Reed Elsevier NV share capital at 31 December 2012. of awards shown in the table is the maximum capable of vesting.
ESOS awards vest on the third anniversary and expire on the tenth Employee benefit Trust anniversary of the date of grant.
For the PSP and RSP awards Any securities required to satisfy entitlements under the REGP, granted to Duncan Palmer, the number of shares shown in the LTIP and BIP are provided by the Employee benefit Trust EBT share tables reects the maximum number of shares which from market purchases.
As a potential beneciary under the EBT in canvest.
the same way as other employees of Reed Elsevier, each executive Options under the SAYE scheme, in which all eligible UK director is deemed to be interested in all the shares held by the EBT employees are invited to participate, are granted at a maximum which, at 31 December 2012, amounted to 13,451,468 Reed Elsevier discount of 20% to the market price at the time of grant.
They PLC ordinary shares 1.07% of issued share capital and 6,990,101 are normally exercisable after the expiry of three or five years Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares 0.91% of issued share capital.
No performance targets are attached These numbers include ordinary share equivalents held in the to these option grants as the SAYE is a UK all-employee scheme.
form of Reed Elsevier PLC ADRs and Reed Elsevier NV ADRs.
Mr Engstrom and Mr Palmer have waived any right to participate Approved by the Board of Reed Elsevier Group plc on in any local all-employee share based plans in any country 27 February 2013. including the HMRC approved all-employee UK Savings-Related Share Option Scheme SAYE.
Mark Elliott Chairman of the Remuneration Committee The middle market price of a Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share at the date of award of grants in 2012 under the BIP was 5.155.
Approved by the Board of Reed Elsevier PLC on The middle market price of a Reed Elsevier NV ordinary share 27 February 2013. at the date of award of grants in 2012 under the BIP was 9.03.
The middle market price of a Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share Mark Elliott at the date of award of grants made to Mr Palmer on 7 September Non-Executive Director 2012 was 6.015.
Approved by the Combined Board of Reed Elsevier NV The middle market price of a Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary on 27 February 2013. share during the year was in the range of 4.694 to 6.52 and at 31December 2012 was 6.42.
The middle market price of a Mark Elliott Reed Elsevier NV ordinary share during the year was in the Member of the Supervisory Board range of 8.17 to 11.37 and at 31 December 2012 was 11.185.
