Governance: Remuneration: Policy Report Remuneration Policy Report For the purposes of assessing the appropriate level of executive About this Policy Report remuneration, the Committee refers to the FTSE30 excluding financial Draft legislation was published by the UK Government during 2012, services companies as the initial comparator group.
The FTSE30 setting out the Governments proposals for reforming the reporting is considered the most relevant comparator group as it comprises of, and voting on, executive remuneration by listed companies.
The organisations broadly comparable to the Group in terms of global regulations are expected to be finalised in the first half of 2013, and reach, revenue, market capitalisation and complexity.
References Rio Tinto will be required to comply with these regulations in its 2013 are also made to other relevant supplementary comparator groups, annual report.
If approved by the UK Parliament, the regulations require including a cross-section of comparable international industrial the directors to present to shareholders a Remuneration policy statement organisations and other international mining companies.
that is subject to a binding vote for the first time at the 2014 AGMs and at least every three years thereafter.
This section of the report aims Typically we aim to position base salaries at the median of these to align our communication with shareholders closer to the spirit of the comparator groups, while our incentive plans are designed with the draft proposals, and provides the essential narrative of our remuneration potential to deliver total remuneration outcomes across the full market policy.
The structure of the report will change next year to reflect the range according to business and individual performance.
Benchmarking is undertaken periodically but not annually, and our intention is to apply judgment in evaluating market data.
This report has been prepared in accordance with applicable legislation and corporate governance guidance in the UK and Australia.
Australian Health and safety legislation requires disclosures in respect of key management personnel, We have a strong focus on health and safety in the STIP targets.
being those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, As an organisation, we strive for superior long-term shareholder directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
So the key management value creation in a healthy, safe and environmentally appropriate personnel are, in addition to the directors, the Executive Committee way.
These are key elements of our licence to operate.
The Executive Committee comprises the executive directors, product group chief executive officers PGCEOs and Group executives.
Health and safety key performance indicators currently comprise Throughout this report, the members of the Executive Committee are 17.5 per cent of the STIP for executives.
From 2013, this component collectively referred to as executives.
They are listed on page 100 which will be increased to 20 per cent and the measures for executives will also shows the positions held during the year and dates of appointment.
be split equally between lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR and AIFR.
We believe, based upon empirical evidence, that these lagging In addition to executive remuneration, this report covers the remuneration measures provide a stronger link to actual safety performance.
of the chairman and the non-executive directors on page 113.
The extent of the impact of a fatality on the STIP score for executives Our remuneration policies, principles and practices is based on an assessment by the Committee of the impact of Our first objective is to spend remuneration resource wisely in pursuit leadership, individual behaviour and systems in the incident.
Further of the implementation of the Groups strategy.
We want our pay policies details on the approach to fatalities are provided on page 97. to be regarded as fair by shareholders and employees alike.
Although For some executives, where relevant, an additional proportion of their we have appropriate remuneration structures, the Committee preserves individual objectives under the STIP, which comprise 30 per cent of the considerable discretions, enabling it, if it thinks fit, to override total STIP opportunity, is linked to safety objectives.
Long-term focus Rio Tinto operates in global and local markets where it competes for a Consistent with our strategy of investing in and operating large, longlimited pool of talented executives.
High-quality people, who are capable term, low-cost mines and businesses, we seek to provide incentive plans of achieving stretching performance targets, are essential to generating that focus on longer-term performance.
superior returns for the Group.
Our compensation strategies aim to provide this support by enabling the Group to attract and retain people Our incentive plans are designed to promote and reward decisionwhose contribution will increase shareholder value.
making with a positive long-term impact while avoiding excessive risks.
Half of the STIP for executives is deferred into shares which vest after We aim to engage our people over the long-term by fostering diversity, three years.
providing challenging work and development opportunities, and encouraging strong delivery by performance.
This people strategy The performance-based options and shares awarded prior to 2013 is underpinned by our values of respect, integrity, accountability and have a three and four-year time horizon, respectively.
The proposed teamwork and our commitment to provide sustainable growth and time horizon for performance shares under the new Performance development for both Rio Tinto and our employees.
As a transitional measure, it is proposed that any awards granted in 2013 under this plan will vest 50 per cent Our remuneration policy is based on the principles of aligning after four years and 50 per cent after five years.
remuneration outcomes with our strategy, and of encouraging strong Options will no longer be granted under the new compensation delivery by employees by differentiating top performers, while achieving regime, but existing options which vest may be exercised, as now, simplicity and transparency in the design and communication of up to ten years after the grant.
The remuneration strategy and the policies which support it, together with a description of how we believe they will The Committee fully intends to keep the Groups long-term incentive help Rio Tinto achieve its vision, are set out below and in the executive arrangements under review, taking into account the practices of our remuneration structure table on pages 96 to 99. key international competitors.
This review will include the percentage of an award under the new Performance Share Plan that vests for Competitive, performance-related remuneration threshold performance, recognising that this is an important issue We aim to provide competitive rewards that attract, retain and motivate for some of the shareholders with whom we consulted.
executives of the high-calibre required to lead the Group while ensuring rewards remain appropriate and proportionate, both when compared to market practice and to remuneration arrangements for other employees in the Group.
The majority of remuneration is linked to demanding performance targets over both the short and long-term to ensure that executive rewards are aligned with performance delivered for shareholders.
com 95 Remuneration Policy Report continued Shareholder alignment TSR is considered an appropriate performance measure for the We reward executives for delivering shareholder value by using relative LTIPs as it captures objectively the return Rio Tinto delivers to TSR as the measure for our LTIP.
its shareholders over the long term and rewards executives based on the Groups TSR performance against its comparators.
For LTIP awards to be granted from 2013 under the new The choice of both the HSBC Global Mining Index and MSCI reflects the Performance Share Plan, the Committee is proposing a new fact that Rio Tinto competes in a global market for investors as well as relative EBIT margin improvement measure to complement within the mining sector and is consistent with rewarding executives the current relative TSR measures and to incentivise executives for providing stable returns over the long term relative to the broader to deliver long-term shareholder value while maximising operational market and the mining sector.
performance in the medium term.
This measure will comprise one third of the total value of the LTIP awards.
When remuneration is delivered The reward opportunity under the remaining portion of the The following chart provides a timeline of when total remuneration LTIP awards will be delivered based on relative TSR performance is delivered, using 2012 as an example.
against both the HSBC Global Mining Index and the broader market of large global companies as measured through the Morgan Stanley Capital World Index MSCI.
STIP cash STIP and LTIP New base salary paid BDP performance effective: LTIP measurement performance shares STIP award shares commences and options allocated approved determined Performance measured LTIP 3 or 4 years Performance measured Deferred shares BDP STIP 3 years Base salary Jan Mar Dec Feb Mar 2012 2012 2012 2013 2013 Executive remuneration structure The Committee seeks to achieve a remuneration mix which best reflects the long-term nature of the business.
The total remuneration package is therefore designed to provide an appropriate balance between fixed and variable components with a focus on long-term variable pay.
The remuneration structure for executives, including the relationship between each element of remuneration and Group performance, is summarised below.
Further details on the key performance indicators used to assess Group performance are provided on page 8.
Link to Group performance Remuneration arrangements Fixed Base salary Provides the fixed element of the Base salaries are reviewed annually effective 1 March.
Any increases are determined with reference to underlying Group and individual Reflects an employees sustained performance, global economic conditions, role responsibilities, an assessment against contribution to the organisation.
relevant comparator groups, internal relativities and base salary budgets applying to the broader employee population.
Base salaries for 2013 are included in the Implementation Report.
Benefits Provide locally competitive postPost-employment benefit arrangements include pension or superannuation and employment and other benefits post-retirement medical benefits, where applicable.
Other benefits include healthcare, accident insurance, provision of company-provided transport, professional advice and secondment and relocation payments made to and on behalf of executives living outside their home country.
96 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report Governance: Remuneration: Policy Report Performance-related At risk Focuses participants on achieving The maximum annual bonus opportunity for outstanding performance under the STIP Short Term for executives is 200 per cent of base salary if target performance is achieved, the bonus demanding annual performance goals, Incentive Plan opportunity is up to 120 per cent of base salary for executive directors and up to 100 per cent which are based on the Groups key STIP of base salary for other executives.
performance indicators KPIs, to 50 per cent of the STIP is delivered in cash and 50 per cent is delivered in deferred shares under create sustainable shareholder value.
the Bonus Deferral Plan BDP.
We demand that sustainable business Threshold, target and outstanding performance levels are established for all STIP measures practices are adhered to, particularly in order to drive high levels of business and individual performance.
The STIP awards for in the context of safety.
achieving these performance levels are 50 per cent, 100 per cent and 200 per cent of the target STIP opportunity respectively.
There is no award for below threshold performance.
The financial performance targets for the measures identified below are established through an annual planning process, where the product group and Group plans are reviewed and ultimately determined by the board.
The central case or base plan delivers what the board considers to be target performance.
Target performance is intended to be stretching.
Probability factors are then applied based upon a range of potential operating and cost scenarios to establish the threshold and outstanding performance levels.
These threshold below target and outstanding above target levels are determined by the Committee at the beginning of each performance year.
The following measures and weightings were used to determine STIP payments for executives in 2012: Weighting for executive directors and Group Weighting for a Business measures executives % PGCEOs % Rio Tinto Group Underlying earnings flexed and unflexed 26.25 10.50 Cash flow flexed and unflexed 26.25 10.50 Product group 15.75 Underlying earnings flexed and unflexed 15.75 Cash flow flexed and unflexed 52.50 52.50 Total financial measures 17.50 17.50 Health and safety 70.00 70.00 Total business measures Individual measures, e. g. cost management, 30.00 30.00 achievement of strategic initiatives 100.00 100.00 Total a For 2012 Sam Walsh was considered a PGCEO with regard to STIP performance measures.
From 2013, the health and safety component of the STIP will be increased to 20 per cent and the financial measures will be reduced to 50 per cent.
The health and safety score for executives is capped at 100 per cent out of a maximum of 200 per cent if there is a fatality in their area of accountability.
The extent of the final impact of any fatalities on the STIP score for executives is based on a judgment process that assesses the impact of leadership, individual behaviour and systems in the incident.
An additional adjustment may also be made to the STIP score for executives for severe permanent disability injuries.
The Committee selected the financial measures because they are KPIs used in managing the business.
In measuring performance against the annual plan, the original plan is flexed to exclude the impact of uncontrollable fluctuations in exchange rates, quoted metal prices and other prices.
Earnings and cash flow results are therefore compared against equally weighted flexed and unflexed targets.
In 2013, there will be a specific focus for executives on management of our cost base within our STIP.
Bonus Ensure ongoing alignment between 50 per cent of the STIP is delivered in cash and 50 per cent delivered in deferred shares executives and shareholders through under the BDP.
Deferral Plan deferral of STIP into Rio Tinto shares.
The BDP vests in the December of the third year after the end of performance year to which BDP they relate.
Simple structure to align executive Performance A resolution to approve the rules of the new PSP is being submitted to shareholders for reward with shareholders returns and Share Plan approval at the 2013 annual general meetings.
Further detailed information about the new operational performance over a truly PSP PSP is provided in the notices of the 2013 annual general meetings.
In the event of any long-term horizon.
variation between the summary below and the new PSP rules, the PSP rules will apply.
2013 Award levels are set to incentivise As discussed with shareholders during the consultation process, awards under the new onwards executives to meet the long-term PSP will have a maximum face value of 438 per cent of base salary, which is unchanged strategic goals of the Group, to provide from the maximum value available under the current PSP framework.
retention for the executive team and to The awards have been calculated independently by our consultants Towers Watson and contribute towards the competitiveness Deloitte LLP to have an expected value of approximately 50 per cent of the face value.
This of the overall remuneration package.
compares with an expected value of approximately 65 per cent of the face value under the TSR rewards the deliver of superior current PSP.
Expected value is face value, adjusted for the probability of the performance target returns to shareholders over the being met.
com 97 Remuneration Policy Report continued Performance-related At risk Performance EBIT margin improvement rewards This means that the maximum expected value that could be awarded under the new Share Plan gauging the sustained operational PSP is 219 per cent of base salary ie 438 per cent x 50 per cent.
PSP performance of our business and Actual award levels proposed for 2013 vary by executive and are included in the Implementation Report on pages 102, 104 and page 106.
In all cases, the maximum face the cost-competitive operation 2013 value of PSP awards granted to Executive Committee members in 2013 will be lower of our mining assets, a core part onwards than the maximum value granted to participants under the current PSP in 2012 of of our strategy.
continued 438 per cent of base salary.
How performance is generated Conditional share awards vest subject to the achievement of stretching performance is as important as what level of conditions, comparing Rio Tintos performance against: performance is delivered.
Before One third: TSR relative to the HSBC Global Mining Index: vesting, the Committee must One third: TSR relative to the Morgan Stanley Capital World Index MSCI : and satisfy itself that relative TSR One third: Improvement in EBIT margin relative to the following ten global mining and EBIT margin performance comparators for 2013 awards : Alcoa, Antofagasta, Anglo American, Barrick Gold, are an appropriate reflection of BHP Billiton, Freeport McMoRan, Peabody, Teck Resources, Vale and Xstrata the underlying performance Each component of the award will be assessed independently.
For the TSR components, of the business and can adjust the award will vest as follows: vesting accordingly.
Awards will normally have a five-year Outperformance of the index by 6 per cent 1.0x award vests performance period to provide longper annum term alignment with shareholders.
Performance between equal to the index Proportionate vesting between As a transitional measure, awards and 6 per cent outperformance 0.225x and 1.0x vesting granted in 2013 will vest 50 per cent Performance equal to the index 0.225x award vests after four years and 50 per cent after Performance less than the index Nil vesting five years.
For the EBIT margin measure, change in the EBIT margin of Rio Tinto and each of the comparator companies measured on a point to point basis using the last financial year in the performance period and the financial year prior to the start of the performance period will be calculated using independent third-party data.
Vesting will be subject to Rio Tintos ranked position using the following schedule: Equal or greater to 2nd ranked company 1.0x award vests Between the 5th and 2nd ranked companies Proportionate vesting between 0.225x and 1.0x vesting Above the 6th ranked company 0.225x award vests Equal to the 6th ranked company or below Nil vesting With respect to the EBIT margin measure, the Committee will consider, on a discretionary basis, any specific, significant below the line items e. g. impairments reported by Rio Tinto or its peers during the performance period when determining any level of vesting indicated by third-party data.
The outperformance required for maximum vesting under all components of the award is considered by the Committee to be stretching.
If, but only if, vesting is achieved, participants in the PSP shall be entitled to receive a number of additional shares whose market value reflects the aggregate cash amount of dividends that would have been received had the number of shares which have vested at the end of the performance period been held throughout the period.
The maximum value of award from selecting the full award in Previous long-term incentive structure performance shares was therefore 438 per cent of base salary Subject to approval from shareholders at the annual general meetings, 292 per cent x 150 per cent.
from 2013 onwards, long-term incentive awards will be made solely under the proposed PSP as set out in the table above.
It is assumed that for 2012 executives selected the full award in performance shares for ease of comparison to grants under the In 2012 and prior years, awards were made in the form of options under new plan.
the Share Option Plan SOP and or performance shares under the PSP.
The total expected value of awards made under either preference This section summarises the key features of the awards which were made was the same, at 190 per cent of base salary.
Both awards were based solely on relative TSR performance to reward Executives were able to express a preference regarding the mix of their executives for increasing the share price and delivering superior TSR long-term incentive opportunity.
performance against other companies over a long-term timeframe.
They could choose either a mix of performance shares and share Before awards vest, the Committee must also satisfy itself that TSR options with a maximum face value performance share award of 200 performance is an appropriate reflection of the underlying performance per cent of base salary, and a performance kicker leading to a vesting of the business and or the health of the Group.
The Committee may up to 1.5 times for exceptional performance, together with a maximum therefore adjust vesting accordingly.
share option award of 300 per cent of base salary.
Or alternatively, they could choose to receive the full award in performance shares with a maximum face value performance share award of 292 per cent of base salary, and a performance kicker leading to a vesting up to 1.5 times for exceptional performance.
98 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report Governance: Remuneration: Policy Report Performance-related At risk Share Option Plan SOP Three-year performance period.
Awards have a maximum face value of 300 per cent of base salary.
pre-2013 Options vest subject to the achievement of a stretching TSR performance condition, comparing Rio Tintos TSR performance to that of the HSBC Global Mining Index.
Vesting of awards made in 2012 is as follows: Outperformance of the index by 5 per cent Awards vest in full per annum Performance between index and 5 per cent Proportionate vesting of residual outperformance award for performance between index and 5 per cent outperformance of the index Performance equal to index Awards of up to 20,000 options or onethird of the award whichever is higher Performance less than index Nil vesting The SOP will cease operation from 2013.
No further awards of share options will be made.
Performance Share Plan PSP Four-year performance period.
pre-2013 Subject to the mix chosen see above awards have a maximum face value of 292 per cent of base salary with the potential for 1.5 times of this value, ie 438 per cent of base salary, for outstanding performance.
The expected value of awards is 190 per cent of base salary.
For 2012 awards, conditional share awards vest subject to the achievement of a stretching TSR performance condition, comparing Rio Tintos TSR performance against: 50 per cent: the HSBC Global Mining Index 50 per cent: the Morgan Stanley Capital World Index MSCI Vesting of awards made in 2012 is as follows: Outperformance of the index by 8 per cent 1.5x award vests per annum Performance between index and 8 per cent Proportionate vesting for performance out-performance between index and 8 per cent outperformance of the index.
Outperformance of the index by approximately 1.0x award vests 5 per cent per annum Performance equal to index 0.35x award vests Performance less than index Nil vesting If, but only if, vesting is achieved, a cash payment will be paid equal to the dividends that would have been received had the number of shares which have vested at the end of the performance period been held throughout the performance period.
Performance evaluation process for executives Discretion Rio Tinto conducts an annual performance evaluation process for all The Committee recognises the importance of ensuring that the outcomes of its executives.
In the case of members of the Executive Committee, of the Groups executive pay arrangements described in this Policy Report the chief executive conducts the review.
In the case of the chief executive, properly reflect the Groups overall performance and the experience of its a performance review is conducted by the chairman of the board who shareholders over the performance period.
makes recommendations for decision by the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee undertakes to its owners that it will exercise discretion The key objectives of the performance evaluation process are to: diligently and in a manner that is aligned with our strategy to create long-term shareholder value.
Accordingly, when reviewing the operation improve organisational effectiveness by creating alignment between of short and long-term incentive plans and the outcome of awards the executives individual objectives and Rio Tintos strategy, and made under these plans, the Committee will, when evaluating safety, provide a consistent, transparent and balanced approach to measure, financial, Group and individual performance, consider the overall recognise and reward executive performance.
shareholder experience during the performance period in question.
It is the Committees intention that the mechanistic outcome of Individual objectives for members of the Executive Committee are performance conditions relating to awards made under such plans will proposed by the chief executive and reported to the Remuneration routinely be subject to review to avoid outcomes which could be seen as Committee at the beginning of the year.
Annual performance reviews are contrary to shareholders expectations.
However, such discretion should completed early in the following year.
Performance evaluations for each not operate as an automatic override, and it must be exercised judiciously executive took place in accordance with the process described.
Individual so as not to reduce the motivation of key executives.
objectives and awards for 2012 for executives are set out in the tables on pages 102, 107 and 108.
To the extent that discretion is applied in any year, the Committee undertakes that this will be clearly explained and disclosed to shareholders.
The discretion exercised in relation to 2012 remuneration is described in the Implementation Report.
com 99 Remuneration Policy Report continued Executives service contracts The treatment of leavers, and the consequences The executive directors have service contracts that can be terminated by of a change of control either party with 12 months notice in writing, or immediately by paying The share plan rules govern entitlements that executive participants the base salary only in lieu of any unexpired notice.
The other executives may have upon termination of employment.
have service contracts which can be terminated by the company with Performance Share Plan 2013 onwards 12 months notice in writing and by the employee with six months notice For grants made under the new PSP, awards will continue to the normal in writing, or immediately by paying the base salary only in lieu of any vesting date and remain subject to the performance conditions.
For Jacynthe Ct, the 12 months notice includes executive leaves during the first 36 months from the date of grant, the salary and target STIP opportunity, in line with typical market practice in award will be reduced pro rata to reflect the number of days worked, Canada and her former Alcan Inc. contract.
up to and including the date of termination, as a proportion of the first Sam Walshs employment concludes, without the need for either party 36 months from the date of grant.
In circumstances where the executive to give notice, on 31 December 2015.
The Company may also terminate resigns or is dismissed for misconduct, or for any other reason that the his employment for any reason on 31 December 2014, provided it gives Committee decides, the award will lapse.
notice of this decision by 31 October 2014.
Chris Lynchs employment Malus and clawback concludes, without the need for either party to give notice, on 28 February The Committee has authority under the proposed PSP to reduce or 2017.
The Company may also terminate Chris Lynchs employment for cancel PSP awards in the event of gross misconduct, a materially adverse any reason on 29 February 2016, provided it gives notice of this decision error in the Companys or a product groups financial statements, or by 31 December 2015. exceptional events that have a materially detrimental impact on the In the case of dismissal for cause, the Company can terminate value of any Group company.
These are termed malus provisions, employment without notice and without payment of any salary or The Committee has also proposed clawback provisions, authorising compensation in lieu of notice.
Deferred bonus shares and outstanding it to recover the value of any shares which have vested under the new awards under the LTIP are forfeited in these circumstances.
PSP or a cash equivalent on an individual basis, in the case of deliberate misconduct by a participant which has a material impact on the value or If termination is a result of redundancy, the terms of the relevant policy reputation of a Group company, or for any other reason that the directors may apply in the same way as for other local employees.
In the case decide in a particular case.
of involuntary termination, Jacynthe Ct may be eligible to receive 24 months salary and target STIP opportunity inclusive of notice in line Share Option Plan SOP with entitlements under her Alcan Inc. contract.
If an executive leaves, awards will lapse unless he is an eligible leaver, being an executive who leaves the Group, in general, by reason of illPosition s Date of appointment health, injury, disability, agreed retirement, redundancy, transfer of Name held during 2012 to position the undertaking in which the executive works, change of control of the Executive directors a executives employing company, or death.
In addition, the Committee Tom Albanese Chief executive 1 May 2007 retains discretion to determine whether an executive is an eligible leaver.
b Guy Elliott Chief financial officer 19 June 2002 c If the executive is an eligible leaver, vested awards will lapse one year Sam Walsh Chief executive, 5 June 2009 from the termination date and unvested awards will lapse one year from Iron Ore and Australia the vesting date.
Unvested awards remain subject to the satisfaction of Other executives performance conditions.
For awards made in 2012, if an executive leaves Hugo Bague Group executive, 1 August 2007 within 24 months of the date of grant, the award will be reduced pro-rata People & Organisation to reflect the number of months worked, as a proportion of the first 24 Preston Chiaro Group executive, 1 November 2009 months from the date of grant.
Technology & Innovation Performance Share Plan pre-2013 Bret Clayton Group executive, Business 1 November 2009 If an executive leaves, awards will lapse unless he is an eligible leaver.
Support & Operations If the executive is an eligible leaver, awards will continue to the normal Jacynthe Ct Chief executive, Rio Tinto Alcan 1 February 2009 vesting date and remain subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
For awards made in 2012, if an executive leaves within 24 Alan Davies Chief executive, 1 September 2012 months of the date of grant, the award will be reduced pro-rata to reflect Diamonds & Minerals the number of months worked, as a proportion of the first 24 months d Andrew Harding Chief executive, Copper 1 November 2009 from the date of grant.
Harry Kenyon-Slaney Chief executive, Energy 1 September 2012 Bonus Deferral Plan BDP Diamonds & Minerals 1 November 2009 If an executive leaves, awards will lapse unless he is an eligible leaver.
e Doug Ritchie Chief executive, Energy 1 November 2009 If the executive is an eligible leaver, awards will vest on the normal Debra Valentine Group executive, 15 January 2008 vesting date.
Any dividend equivalent shares will be calculated on the Legal & External Affairs vested shares.
a Mr Albanese held the role of chief executive until 17 January 2013, and will leave the Group on Management Share Plan MSP 16 July 2013. b Mr Elliott will retire from the Group on 31 December 2013.
If an executive leaves, the awards will lapse unless he is an eligible c Mr Walsh held the role of chief executive Iron Ore and Australia until 16 January 2013, and was leaver.
If the executive is an eligible leaver, awards will vest on the appointed chief executive on 17 January 2013. termination date, unless the Committee decides that the awards will d Mr Harding was appointed chief executive Iron Ore on 14 February 2013. vest on the normal vesting date.
The awards will be reduced pro-rata e Mr Ritchie held the role of chief executive Energy until 31 August 2012 and took long service leave from 1 September 2012 until 31 December 2012.
He will leave the Group on 16 July 2013.
Mr Ritchies to reflect the proportion of the period between the date of grant and the 2012 base salary of A$967,000 remains unchanged.
normal vesting date which has not elapsed.
Any dividend equivalent shares will be calculated on the vested shares.
100 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report Governance: Remuneration: Policy Report Shareholding policy for executives Chairman and non-executive directors remuneration The Group recognises the importance of aligning executives interests Chairman with those of shareholders and they are therefore expected to build The Committee determines the terms of service, including remuneration, up a meaningful shareholding.
The Committee intends that executives of the chairman.
It is Rio Tintos policy that the chairman should be should aim to reach, within five years of appointment, a holding remunerated on a competitive basis and at a level which reflects his equivalent in value to: contribution to the Group, as assessed by the board.
The chairman is not present at any discussion regarding his own remuneration.
four times base salary for the chief executive: and The chairman receives a fixed annual fee and does not receive any additional three times base salary for other executives.
fee or allowance either for committee membership or for overseas travel.
These were increased from the previous level of two times base salary He is provided with a car and driver for business purposes, and private as part of the changes to the Groups long-term incentive arrangements healthcare.
He is also covered under the Groups accident policy.
The Committee expects that this shareholding will be built up disclosed as benefits in Table 1b on page 116.
He does not participate in the by holding shares that vest under the LTIPs.
Details of executives share Groups incentive plans or pension arrangements.
interests in the Group are set out in Table 3 on page 118.
Non-executive directors Complementary shareholding requirements will be introduced for senior Fees paid to non-executive directors reflect their respective duties management below the Executive Committee in 2013. and responsibilities and the time required to be spent by them so as to make a meaningful and effective contribution to the affairs of Rio Tinto.
Share dealing policy Non-executive directors receive a fixed annual fee comprising a base fee, Executives and employee insiders are bound by the Rules for dealing committee membership or committee chairmanship fees, as applicable, and in Rio Tinto securities which comply with the requirements of the allowances for attending meetings which involve medium or long distance ASX Listing Rules and are consistent with the UK Listing Authoritys air travel.
Rio Tinto does not pay retirement or post-employment benefits Model Code.
These rules are available on the Rio Tinto website.
The to non-executive directors: neither do any of them participate in any rules apply fixed close periods before results announcements as well of the Groups incentive plans.
Where the payment of statutory minimum as other prohibited periods during which key management personnel superannuation contributions for Australian non-executive directors is and employee insiders are prohibited from trading Rio Tinto securities.
required by Australian superannuation law, these contributions are deducted Directors, other executives and employee insiders are required to certify from the directors overall fee entitlements.
Non-executive directors are also that they do not hold any inside information when seeking clearance to covered under the Groups accident policy.
deal in Rio Tinto securities.
All employees subject to the rules receive The fees payable to non-executive directors are subject to review by the regular training and information.
During 2011, the review took into account market Executives and employee insiders are prohibited from engaging in and related developments.
In light of Rio Tintos size, the complexity of its hedging arrangements, dealing in derivatives or entering into other dual listed company structure and the resulting demands on directors as arrangements, including borrowing against share and performance well as market developments, the base fee for non-executive directors was share holdings which limit the economic risk related to Rio Tinto increased to 85,000 from 1 January 2012.
Other fees were also increased, securities, including in relation to securities awarded under LTIPs.
as indicated in the table on page 113, with effect from 1 January 2012, including allowances for overseas meetings involving long and medium Executives external and other appointments distance flights.
There have been no changes to the fees or allowances Executives may be invited to become non-executive directors of other since that time.
It is Rio Tintos policy that such appointments can broaden Shareholding policy for non-executive directors the experience and knowledge of executives, to the benefit of the Group.
The board has adopted a policy whereby non-executive directors This policy limits each executives external appointment to one FTSE100 are encouraged to build up a shareholding within three years of their company directorship or equivalent.
Consequently, where there is no appointment equal in value to one years base fee.
To help facilitate this, likelihood that such an appointment will give rise to a conflict of interest, a non-executive directors share purchase plan has been established the board will normally provide consent to the appointment.
The under which non-executive directors may elect to invest a proportion executive is permitted to retain any fees earned.
of their fees net of tax on a regular basis to acquire shares on the open In 2012, the following executive directors received fees from external market.
Details of non-executive directors share interests in the Group appointments: Guy Elliott received US$212,147 2011: US$219,918 are set out in Table 3 on page 118. and Sam Walsh received A$161,000 2011: A$137,084.
Letters of appointment Details of all board members and executives external appointments The chairmans letter of appointment stipulates his duties as chairman can be found on pages 83 to 84. of the Group.
His appointment may be terminated without liability on the part of Rio Tinto in accordance with the Groups constitutional Company secretary remuneration documents dealing with retirement, disqualification from office or other vacation from office.
Otherwise, his appointment may be terminated The executive remuneration policy applies to the company secretary by giving 12 months notice.
There are no provisions for compensation of both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
They may participate in the payable on termination of his appointment, other than if his appointment Groups incentive arrangements.
The individual performance measures for the company secretaries STIP comprise Group and individual objectives.
as chairman is terminated by reason of his removal as a director Their personal measures reflect the key responsibilities of the company pursuant to a resolution of shareholders in general meeting.
secretarial role and include ensuring compliance with regulatory Non-executive directors have formal letters of appointment setting out requirements, continual improvement of corporate governance practice their duties and responsibilities.
These letters are available for inspection and measures related to the provision of corporate secretarial services at Rio Tinto plcs registered office, and at its annual general meeting.
Each non-executive director is appointed by the board subject to their election and annual re-election by shareholders as detailed on page 73.
Non-executive directors appointments may be terminated by giving three months notice.
There are no provisions for compensation payable on termination of their appointment.
