Letter from the Remuneration Committee chairman Incentive plans Dear Shareholder As we mentioned last year, a key priority in 2012 was to review the future On behalf of the board, I am pleased to introduce our structure of our incentive plans.
Our current long-term incentive plans 2012 Remuneration Report, for which we seek your LTIPs, which were approved by shareholders in 2004, are due to expire support at our annual general meetings in London in 2014.
Accordingly, we have undertaken a wide-ranging review of our in April, and in Sydney in May.
LTIP arrangements to ensure that they continue to incentivise management to deliver our long-term strategy.
The report is designed to provide you with the necessary Based upon the views expressed by shareholders during our extensive information to demonstrate the link between our consultations, the Committee is recommending amendments to the Groups strategy, its performance, and the remuneration Groups LTIPs for approval by shareholders at the 2013 annual general outcomes for its executives.
The new plans incorporate the views and feedback from many major shareholders: the Committee is grateful for the time shareholders took to meet with us and was encouraged by the overall level of support we received.
The main principles of and changes to our LTIP structure, all within the context of no increased overall reward opportunity, are: The simplification of our LTIP arrangements by reducing the number of plans from two to a single Performance Share Plan PSP.
The addition of a new performance measure the improvement in our earnings before interest and tax EBIT margin relative to the EBIT margin improvement achieved by our major competitors to complement the existing Total Shareholder Return TSR measures.
This measure provides a good line of sight to executives: and, with TSR, incentivises management to deliver long-term shareholder value while maximising operational performance in the medium term.
We believe that this EBIT margin performance measure will provide an appropriate means of gauging the sustained operational performance of our business and encouraging the cost-competitive operation of our mining assets, a core part of our strategy.
The extension of the vesting and performance period for awards under the PSP from four years to five.
We consider that this duration more appropriately recognises the timeframes over which our business operates, reflecting the long-term nature of our sector, and enhances the alignment of our remuneration structure with our Company strategy.
The simplification of the PSP award structure by consolidating the current potential for 1.5 times vesting of awards for outstanding performance within the maximum face value of awards of 438 per cent of base salary i. e. the previous face value of 292 per cent with the potential for 1.5 times vesting.
Strengthening the alignment of executives interests with those of shareholders by increasing the executive shareholding guidelines from two to four times base salary for the chief executive: and from two to three times base salary for the other executives.
The introduction of malus and claw back provisions to provide the Committee with the ability to reduce or cancel unvested LTIP awards and to recover vested LTIP awards in certain circumstances.
In order to implement these changes, a resolution to approve the rules of the new PSP is being submitted to shareholders for approval at the 2013 annual general meetings.
Further detailed information about the proposed new PSP is provided in the notices of meeting for the 2013 annual general meetings.
The Committee fully intends to keep the Groups long-term incentive arrangements under review, taking into account the practices of our key international competitors.
This review will include the percentage of an award under the new PSP that vests for threshold performance, recognising that this is an important issue for some of the shareholders with whom we consulted.
The Committee recognises the importance of ensuring that the outcomes of the Groups executive pay arrangements described in the Policy Report that follows properly reflect the Groups overall performance and the experience of its shareholders over the performance period.
It will exercise the discretions reserved to it accordingly.
92 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report Governance: Remuneration: Letter from chairman The Committee has also approved some changes to the way we measure Governance health and safety performance in our short-term incentive plan STIP We continue to ensure that the Company meets regulatory and from 2013.
These changes incorporate feedback from shareholders legislative remuneration requirements specified by Australian and during our consultations in 2012.
The weighting of the safety component UK regulation and, as part of this, we held extensive meetings with will be increased from 17.5 per cent to 20 per cent of the overall STIP.
shareholders and proxy advisory bodies in Australia and the UK during Since 2007, the safety component has been increasingly based on the year to describe and explain our remuneration policies and practices.
leading indicators to drive safety performance.
From 2013, in order to There have been major initiatives by both the UK and Australian simplify further the STIP, performance for executives will be judged on governments to strengthen the role of owners in the determination safety outcomes rather than programmes to drive future performance.
of pay policy and practice.
The new UK regulations are expected to be Further details of the changes are provided on page 97. finalised in the first half of 2013.
While the final shape of many of these 2012 performance and remuneration proposals is yet to be definitively determined, the format of this report The financial performance of the business generally exceeded targets has been restructured in an attempt to capture the spirit of the UK set by the board at the beginning of 2012.
The board was, however, Governments thinking, particularly with regard to the presentation deeply disappointed by the US$14.4 billion write-downs that we have of a separate Policy Report and an Implementation Report.
As we said taken in 2012, primarily in our aluminium and energy businesses.
last year, our endeavour here is to explain what we pay our senior The individual STIP outcomes for 2012 are a direct reflection of these executives and why.
Our remuneration structures fixed, short-term features, as detailed more fully in the report that follows.
and long-term are described in the first section of the pages that follow the Policy Report.
The application of the policy described in the Policy The Committee has reviewed the base salary levels for Executive Report to pay decisions during 2012 and 2013 is then described in the Committee members and, consistent with our stated policy, it has made Implementation Report.
adjustments taking into account the Groups and individual performance, as well as other factors that it considers relevant such as base salary I am all too conscious of the fact that this report runs to 34 pages.
budgets applying to the broader employee population.
We try to balance the need for a simple narrative of the years remuneration events with the appetite of many of our shareholders and The Committee has considered the Groups overall performance in our regulators for more detail.
So, where we can, we use appendices for the context of the LTIP awards that vested at the end of 2012 and has some of that detail so that the big picture can be observed without too concluded that the vesting of awards based upon the achievement of TSR much clutter.
But, as always, we welcome your feedback on our report.
Yours sincerely, 2013 decisions We announced in January that Tom Albanese and Doug Ritchie had stepped down by mutual agreement from their respective roles following the asset write-downs.
The Committee determined that their performance in 2012 did not justify them receiving any STIP award.
For other members of the Executive Committee, individual performance in 2012 as well as association with the asset write-downs were taken into John Varley account.
Different levels of STIP award resulted from this, as detailed Remuneration Committee chairman more fully in the report that follows.
The Committee reviewed in detail each component of the proposed remuneration package for the new chief executive, Sam Walsh, to ensure that an appropriate offer was made to him, focusing on aligning his potential reward with the aim of pursuing greater value for shareholders and increased discipline and accountability throughout the organisation.
This approach was reflected in the remuneration packages determined by the Committee for Andrew Harding upon his promotion to become chief executive of the Iron Ore Group in Perth, and for Jean-Sbastien Jacques upon his promotion to the Executive Committee as chief executive of the Copper Group.
Most recently, the Committee reviewed and determined each component of the remuneration package for Chris Lynch upon his appointment as chief financial officer, and for Hugo Bague upon his appointment as Group executive, Organisational Resources.
The Committee is mindful of the Groups renewed focus and discipline in delivering its strategy under Sam Walshs new leadership and will be taking this into account in shaping the future direction and focus of its short and long-term incentive arrangements for management.
com 93 Remuneration Report The Committee reviewed and determined the terms of appointment Remuneration Committee responsibilities for Sam Walsh, as our new chief executive and for Andrew Harding and The Committees responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference Jean-Sbastien Jacques as our new chief executives for Iron Ore and which are available in the corporate governance section of the Rio Tinto Copper respectively.
In addition, the Committee reviewed and determined website.
The responsibilities of the Committee include: the terms of appointment for Chris Lynch as our new chief financial determining the remuneration structure and policies, and assessing officer and for Hugo Bague upon his appointment as Group executive, their cost, including pension and superannuation arrangements Organisational Resources.
for executives: determining the use of short and long-term incentive plans LTIP Independent advisers for executives: The independent advisers engaged by and reporting to the Committee during 2012 were Deloitte LLP.
During 2012 Deloitte LLP provided overseeing the operation of the Groups short and long-term incentive general and technical executive remuneration services.
These services plans as they relate to executives, including the approval of awards, included benchmarking data, and advice about remuneration of setting of performance criteria, where applicable, and determination employees other than key management personnel across the Group.
of any vesting: Deloitte LLP was paid US$357,130 for these services.
determining contractual notice periods and termination commitments and setting any retention and termination As part of this engagement, Deloitte LLP provided remuneration arrangements for executives: recommendations to the Committee during 2012 being advice relating to the elements of remuneration for the key management personnel, determining awards under the Groups all-employee share plans: and as defined under the Australian Corporations Act, including Committee determining the terms of service upon appointment and any meeting attendance, advice in relation to the proposed changes to the subsequent changes for the chairman, executives and the company LTIPs and advice in relation to management proposals.
Deloitte LLP was secretary of Rio Tinto plc.
paid US$133,072 for these services.
The Committee considers the level of pay and conditions throughout To ensure that remuneration recommendations were made free from the Group when determining executive remuneration and ensures that undue influence by key management personnel to whom they may the same principles are used when designing the broader employee relate, the Committee has established a Protocol for the engagement remuneration policies.
The Committee is committed to ensuring that of and interaction with remuneration consultants and has monitored remuneration policy and practices reflect, to the extent practicable, compliance with its requirements throughout 2012.
Each remuneration corporate governance guidance on executive remuneration.
recommendation was accompanied by a declaration from Deloitte LLP The members of the Committee are John Varley chair, Jan du Plessis that the recommendation was made free from undue influence of key appointed to the Committee on 7 February 2012, Mike Fitzpatrick, management personnel to whom it related.
The board has received Richard Goodmanson and Paul Tellier.
assurance from the Committee and is therefore satisfied that the remuneration recommendations received from Deloitte LLP were The membership and meeting attendances are detailed in the corporate made free from undue influence by key management personnel to whom governance section on page 74.
The Committee is supported by any of the remuneration recommendations related.
executives and members of senior management who regularly attend meetings to provide information as requested by the Committee.
These Deloitte LLP is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, included the chief executive, Hugo Bague Group executive, as such, voluntarily operates under the Code of Conduct in relation to Organisational Resources, John Beadle global practice leader, executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The Code is based upon Performance and Reward and Ben Mathews company secretary.
None principles of transparency, integrity, objectivity, competence, due care of the attendees mentioned above were present when matters associated and confidentiality by executive remuneration consultants.
Deloitte LLP with their own remuneration were considered.
has confirmed that it adhered to the Code throughout 2012 for all remuneration services provided to Rio Tinto.
It is available at How the Committee spent its time in 2012 www.
During 2012, the Committee met nine times.
It fulfilled its responsibilities The Committee is comfortable that Deloitte LLP, in providing as set out in its terms of reference.
In particular, its work has included: remuneration advice to the Committee, does not have any connections reviewing and determining base salary increases for the executives: with Rio Tinto that may impair its independence.
reviewing and determining threshold and outstanding performance Deloitte LLP also provided various non-audit services to the Group during targets used in the 2012 STIP and so far in 2013, reviewing actual 2012 including advice in relation to taxation, project management and performance against these targets as well as establishing the 2013 consulting and advisory services, and was paid a total of US$33.9 million STIP financial and safety targets: for these services.
reviewing and determining LTIP grants for the executives and deciding Deloitte LLP is the only remuneration consultant which provided vesting outcomes: remuneration recommendations to the Committee during 2012. a detailed review of the proposed changes to the LTIPs: Other services and publications were received from a range of advisers, extensive consultation with leading shareholders and proxy advisers including Towers Watson and Mercer in relation to remuneration data in Australia and the UK in shaping the LTIPs: and external validation of Total Shareholder Return TSR performance.
reviewing and approving the new global employee share plan: reviewing and determining the appointment packages for Harry Kenyon-Slaney and Alan Davies as chief executive Energy and chief executive Diamonds and Minerals respectively: and a review of remuneration practices against our comparator groups.
Most recently in 2013, the Committee reviewed and determined the terms of departure of Tom Albanese as chief executive and Doug Ritchie.
