Directors remuneration report Part A: Remuneration policy 1.
Executive Director remuneration policy table for 2013 and future years Purpose and link to strategy Opportunity and operation Fixed remuneration Base salary Base salary recognises the market value of the role, an Base salary is targeted at around median of a mid-Atlantic peer individuals skills, experience and performance, as well as their group which comprises a blend of US and UK companies, taking contribution to leadership and Company strategy.
into account scale and international complexity.
UK market data is based on other companies within the FTSE 100 index excluding financial services, utilities and mining companies.
The greater number of comparable US companies allows further renement of US market data to only include companies in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and related sectors.
The exact positioning depends on a variety of factors such as individual experience and performance, salary increases across the Company and shareholder views.
Any significant salary increases, such as in case of Executive Directors new in role, changes in responsibilities or significant variance to the market, will be appropriately explained.
Base salary is paid in cash and is pensionable, and any increases typically take effect on January 1 each year.
Fixed remuneration Pension and other benets The Companys policy is to ensure that benets are competitive Mr. Russell participates in the 401 k Plan and the Supplemental in the markets in which it operates.
Executive Retirement Plan SERP in the US.
The SERP is an unfunded dened contribution scheme: the benets are payable as lump sums on leaving the Companys employment or in the event of death or disability.
The Company contributes a total of 30% of Mr. Russells annual salary to these plans in total.
Mr. Hetherington participates in a UK HMRC registered dened contribution plan, which the Company operates for UK employees.
Mr. Hetherington receives a total contribution of 25% of annual salary to a combination of this plan and or by way of a cash allowance at his election.
Other core benets include a car allowance and private fuel, long term disability and private medical insurance, and personal financial planning assistance.
These benets are not pensionable.
Short term variable remuneration Executive Annual Incentive Plan The Executive Annual Incentive Plan EAIP rewards individuals 90% and 80% of base salary is payable for target performance for with an award based on achievement of pre-dened, the Chief Executive officer CEO and Chief Financial officer Committee-approved corporate objectives and the individuals CFO respectively and up to 180% and 160% for maximum contributions toward achieving those objectives.
These levels are consistent with the mid-Atlantic peer group described earlier in this report.
Key performance measures are set by the Committee both in the context of annual performance as well as to ensure progress 75% is payable in cash non-pensionable and 25% is deferred into towards longer term, strategic goals.
The cash element is paid in the first quarter of the year following the performance year, and the deferred shares element is deferred and released after a period of three years, subject to the participants employment not being terminated for cause.
The release of deferred shares awarded from 2011 onwards includes dividend shares representing accumulated dividends.
50 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Performance metrics Planned changes Individual and corporate performance are factors considered Following the annual review, the Committee made the following base during the annual base salary review process.
salary decisions: 2012 base 2013 base salary salary % change Angus Russell $1,290,000 $1,290,000 0% Graham Hetherington 465,000 480,000 3.2% The Committee determined that no 2013 base salary increase would be appropriate for Mr. Russell given his scheduled retirement.
For Mr. Hetherington, the Committee took into account a range of factors including market positioning, individual performance, the delivery of continued strong financial performance and the broader employee budget of 3%.
Benets are, by their nature, not performance-linked.
There will be no private fuel provision from 2013 onwards.
Key performance measures are established each year in the The 2013 EAIP will continue to use a scorecard approach with key context of strategic and operational priorities.
In determining EAIP performance measures supporting Shires vision of Imagining and awards for the Executive Directors, the Committee considers Leading the Future of Healthcare for People with Life-Altering performance against each of these key performance measures, Conditions, Creating Value for Society.
Executive Directors 2013 taking into account the impact on the Companys performance of performance will be assessed relative to both the financial targets strategic actions, as well as the Companys response to external and the strategic priorities of strengthening the commercial portfolio, opportunities and events that could not have been predicted at expanding the development pipeline, and enhancing organizational the beginning of the year, together with performance against effectiveness.
The annual bonus funding for the organization, including the Clawback arrangements are in place for awards to cover EAIP, will be determined by financial performance, as assessed situations where results are materially misstated or in the event of against specic targets for product sales, operating income, and serious misconduct.
Shire plc Annual Report 2012 51 Directors remuneration report Purpose and link to strategy Opportunity and operation Long term variable remuneration Portfolio Share Plan The performance measures for the Portfolio Share Plan PSP Long term incentive awards are commonly expressed in terms of awards are Non GAAP EBITDA and Adjusted ROIC.
They were the face value of the underlying shares.
The maximum face value of selected by the Committee as it believes that growth in Non awards for any participant under the PSP Rules, which were GAAP EBITDA and achievement of Adjusted ROIC above the approved by shareholders in 2008, is 600% of base salary for SAR weighted average cost of capital are key drivers of value creation.
awards and 400% of base salary for PSA awards, using the value of Shires shares at the time of award.
The combination of these two measures in a performance matrix is designed to reward the Executive Directors for delivering Within these maximum plan limits, the Committee has established the balanced growth.
following target levels of award in face value terms: For the CEO, 400% of base salary for SAR awards and 300% of base salary for PSA The Committee reviews annually whether the performance awards: and, for the CFO, 300% of base salary for SAR awards and matrix structure and performance targets remain appropriate 220% of base salary for PSA awards.
These levels are consistent with and challenging taking into account analysts forecasts, the the mid-Atlantic peer group described earlier in this report.
industrys outlook, long-range plans, strategic objectives and shareholder interests.
Each year, the Committee will make awards to Executive Directors of between 80% to 120% of these target levels, depending on PSP grants for the Executive Directors comprise two types performance and appropriate benchmarks.
In doing so, the of award: Committee gives consideration to the expected value of the award, Q SAR Awards.
A Stock Appreciation Right SAR is the right which enables comparison to other Shire employees whose long to receive ordinary shares or American Depositary Shares term variable remuneration is determined in expected value terms ADS linked to the increase in value of ordinary shares or as well as to the external market.
ADSs from grant to exercise.
Expected value is determined by taking into account the share price Q PSA Awards.
A Performance Share Award PSA is the right at the time of award, applicable performance conditions and, for to receive a specified number of ordinary shares or ADSs.
SAR awards, a valuation calculated using the Black-Scholes model, a widely accepted method of calculating the option value of these SAR and PSA awards granted to Executive Directors vest three types of award.
years from the date of grant, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
SAR awards can be exercised up to the For new hires, additional cash and or share awards are made, where seventh anniversary of the date of grant.
These two types of necessary, to reect awards forfeited on departure from previous award are made to ensure a balance between the emphasis on employment.
The Committee seeks to ensure that, overall, these are share price growth that the SAR awards provide and the no more generous in terms of quantum or vesting period than the retentive properties of the PSA awards.
awards due to be forfeited with particular reference to the performance conditions.
It also seeks to ensure that the proportion of share awards made is at least as great as in relation to the awards forfeited.
52 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Performance metrics Planned changes Vesting of awards requires the achievement of Non GAAP EBITDA For 2013 the face value of PSP awards will be as set out in the table and Adjusted ROIC targets within a performance matrix.
The base award is one quarter of the total award made 1.0x awards only vest if the Committee determines that the underlying vesting under the matrix and is payable for threshold performance.
performance of the Company is sufficient to justify the vesting of There is nil vesting below this performance level.
Up to four times the award.
the base award 4.0x vesting under the matrix is payable for maximum performance, which would result in the total award For the purposes of the matrix, EBITDA growth is dened as the vesting.
In all cases, awards will only vest if the Committee compound annual growth rate CAGR of Non GAAP EBITDA, determines that the underlying performance of the Company is as derived from the Groups Non GAAP financial results included sufficient to justify the vesting of the award.
in its full year earnings releases, over the three-year vesting period.
Face value Face value Adjusted ROIC reects the denition used by the Company in its of base of total Face value Corporate Scorecard.
This denition aims to measure true award award of total underlying economic performance of the Company, by making a threshold maximum award number of adjustments to ROIC as derived from the Companys vesting vesting maximum % of 2013 % of 2013 vesting Non GAAP financial results including: salary salary 000 Q Adding back to Non GAAP operating income all R&D expenses 1.0x vesting 4.0x vesting 4.0x vesting and operating lease costs incurred in the period: under under under Q Capitalizing on the Groups balance sheet historical, cumulative performance performance performance Award type matrix matrix matrix R&D, in-process R&D, intangible asset impairment charges and operating lease costs which previously have been expensed: Graham Hetherington SAR 73% 290% 1,393 PSA 53% 213% 1,022 Q Deducting from Non GAAP operating income an amortization charge for the above capitalized costs, based on the estimated The Committee reviewed the performance matrix and determined commercial lives of the relevant products: that the structure and performance measures will be retained in their Q Excluding the income statement and balance sheet impact of current form for 2013.
The performance targets have been adjusted non-operating assets such as surplus cash and non-strategic to maintain appropriate alignment with the Companys current investments : and long-range plans and strategy, the Companys weighted average Q Taxing the resulting adjusted operating income at the underlying cost of capital and recent broker forecasts.
The performance range for EBITDA growth has been adjusted from between 8% to 16% to between 10% and 18% and the The Committee reserves the right to make adjustments to the matrix performance range for Adjusted ROIC increase has been adjusted to reect significant one-time items which occur during the vesting from between 60 160 basis points per annum to 100 200 basis period.
The Committee will make full and clear disclosure of any points per annum.
The resulting 2013 performance matrix is set such adjustments in the Directors Remuneration Report, together out below.
with the ROIC performance, at the end of the performance period.
EBITDA growth CAGR 2012-2015 Clawback arrangements are in place for awards to cover Adjusted ROIC situations where results are materially misstated or in the event Increase bp p. a.
A compound annual growth rate of EBITDA is then calculated.
For Adjusted ROIC growth, the Adjusted ROIC in the final performance year is compared to the Adjusted ROIC in the reference year.
The difference between these two numbers is then divided by three and expressed in basis points one-hundredth of a percentage point to give an average per annum change in ROIC basis points.
Shire plc Annual Report 2012 53 Directors remuneration report Remuneration of other employees Assessment against a balanced scorecard of key performance The remuneration policy is made up of the guiding principles set measures drives annual incentive outcomes for the Executive out below.
These act as a framework for remuneration decisions Directors.
As described earlier in the Executive Director policy across the Company.
table, this scorecard is built around Shires vision of Imagining and Leading the Future of Healthcare for People with Life-Altering i Simple and understandable Conditions, Creating Value for Society.
This same scorecard is Q Employees understand their impact on business performance cascaded to each business and corporate function to ensure and how they will be rewarded accordingly.
Scorecard targets are further cascaded to each employee through their performance objectives, Q Arrangements are practical and easily communicated.
with annual incentive awards strongly differentiated based on ii Competitive individual performance through linkages with the performance Q Packages enable the Company to attract and retain management system.
A proportion of the annual incentive one employees with the ability to deliver the strategy for the benefit quarter of any EAIP award for the Leadership Team is deferred into of shareholders and other key stakeholders including patients.
Q Overall remuneration is both cost-effective and appropriate.
Discretionary annual equity awards are dependent on an employees level of responsibility within the Company and individual iii Strategically and culturally aligned performance.
Phased vesting occurs over a period of three years Q Arrangements are designed to support shareholder value with the majority vesting at the end of the three-year period, except creation by the delivery of sustainable performance consistent for the Leadership Team where all of the awards vest after a with the strategy and appropriate risk management.
Q Behavior consistent with the Companys Brave culture is 2.
This culture is based around the following values: The Committee aims to strike a balance between remuneration a Act with the highest ethical standards, integrity and respect that is appropriate in a competitive global market and the need for for others views and the world we live in.
Always be mindful remuneration to be aligned with governance best practice and we work in a business where patients lives are at stake.
In striking this balance, the Committee takes into b Have the courage of your convictions: challenge the status account a variety of stakeholder considerations and some of the quo with a sense of urgency for great ideas and new key ones are detailed below.
solutions, because in the lives of patients and their families, every day matters.
Q The Committee is committed to ongoing dialogue with the c Exemplify trust and openness through collaboration and Companys shareholder base, which has a significant teamwork: recognize that being Brave is a collective and transatlantic element.
This can take a variety of forms including individual endeavor: hold yourself accountable for what you meetings with major shareholders to consider significant do, and what you dont do.
potential changes to policy or specic issues of interest to particular shareholder groups, other dialog to update iv Performance oriented shareholders and take their feedback on planned renements to Q Plans allow for differentiation based on individual performance.
arrangements, or the annual advisory vote itself on the Directors Q Plans are linked to performance at the corporate, business Remuneration Report.
and individual level, as appropriate.
Q Shire aims to ensure that maintaining a culture of compliance is Q Remuneration arrangements provide for an appropriate central to everything it does.
It seeks to comply with all balance between short and long term performance.
applicable regulations and, from a remuneration reporting perspective, continues to prepare this report in compliance with Q The exercise of informed discretion plays an important role in the UK Companies Act provisions that would apply were the remuneration decisions to help avoid perverse outcomes.
Company incorporated in the United Kingdom.
In addition, by way of commitment to emerging best practice, the Committee v Valued by employees has updated the structure and content of this report in Q Each element of the package is valued by employees and cost anticipation of the UK Governments draft proposals on effective.
remuneration reporting that are due to become effective for financial years ending after October 2013.
The exact structure and quantum of individual remuneration packages varies by business, geography, role and level of Q When making remuneration decisions for the Executive responsibility within the Company.
In general, the proportion of Directors, the Committee is sensitive to pay and employment variable remuneration in the total remuneration package increases conditions across the Company, in particular in relation to base with level of responsibility within the Company.
salary decisions where the Committee considers the broader employee salary increase budget.
In addition, annual All employees base salaries are benchmarked against the performance for the Executive Directors is measured against the appropriate market and in light of similar factors as described for backdrop of the same organization-wide corporate scorecard the Executive Directors.
Consistent with the Executive Directors, that is cascaded across the organization.
Finally, the Company the rest of the Leadership Team is benchmarked against a similar carries out a biennial employee engagement survey which blend of US and UK companies taking into account scale and provides employees the opportunity to feedback their views on international complexity.
This recognises the global mobility of the a variety of employment matters, including remuneration.
senior talent pool in the pharmaceutical industry and the fact that a significant majority of the Leadership Team are either US persons Key stakeholder considerations: or based in the US.
Retirement and other benefit arrangements are Q commitment to ongoing dialog with shareholders provided to employees with appropriate consideration of market practice and geographical differences.
Q maintaining a culture of compliance Q being sensitive to pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Company 54 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Governance 3.
Remuneration scenarios The remuneration package for the Executive Directors is designed to provide an appropriate balance between xed and variable, performance-related components, with a significant element of long term variable pay given the long term nature of the business.
In terms of total remuneration, the Companys policy is to target at around median of the relevant market and to allow for higher pay levels to recognize superior performance.
The Committee is satisfied that the composition and structure of the remuneration package is appropriate and does not incentivize undue risk taking.
As previously disclosed, in light of best practice, clawback provisions have been introduced in respect of incentive awards to cover situations where results are materially misstated or in the event of serious misconduct.
The composition and value of the Executive Directors remuneration packages in a range of performance scenarios are set out in the charts below.
These show that the proportion of the package delivered through long term performance is in line with the long term nature of the business and changes signicantly across the performance scenarios.
As a result, the package promotes the achievement of superior long term performance and aligns the interests of the Executive Directors with those of shareholders.
A brief description of each remuneration element is set out below the charts.
CEO remuneration package Below threshold Below threshold performance performance Threshold Threshold performance performance Target Target performance performance Stretch Stretch performance performance Value of $0 $2,000 $4,000 $6,000 $8,000 $10,000 Proportion 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% package of overall $000 Base salary Pension EAIP PSP package Base salary Pension EAIP PSP annual bonus long term incentive annual bonus long term incentive CFO remuneration package Below threshold Below threshold performance performance Threshold Threshold performance performance Target Target performance performance Stretch Stretch performance performance Value of Proportion 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% package of overall 000 Base salary Pension EAIP PSP package Base salary Pension EAIP PSP annual bonus long term incentive annual bonus long term incentive Performance below threshold results in no variable remuneration being payable.
A nil payout is shown under the Executive Annual Incentive Plan EAIP for the threshold scenario, target award level for the target scenario and the maximum award level for the stretch scenario.
Portfolio Share Plan PSP values reect threshold vesting of the target award for the threshold scenario, the expected value of the target award for the target scenario and full vesting for the stretch scenario.
SAR awards are valued with the same Black-Scholes model that is used to determine the share based compensation cost included in the Companys consolidated statements of income.
The Executive Directors remuneration package promotes the achievement of superior long term performance and aligns the interests of the Executive Directors with those of other shareholders Shire plc Annual Report 2012 55 Directors remuneration report The Non GAAP measures are used by Shires management to 4.
Changes in key metrics over the year make operating decisions as they facilitate internal comparisons of The chart below shows how staff remuneration costs compare Shires performance to historical results and to competitors results.
with other key financial metrics.
They exclude the effect of certain cash and non-cash items that are included in the US GAAP Net Income gure also shown in the chart, including certain asset impairment charges and legal and Year on year % change 2011-2012 litigation costs.
The dividend gure reects an increase in declared and paid dividends from 13.33 US cents per Ordinary Share in % 2011 to 15.32 US cents per Ordinary Share for 2012.
The increase 20% in staff remuneration costs is primarily driven by the first full year of 17% staff costs in respect of Advanced BioHealing being included in 13% 10% 9% 2012 as well as an increased proportion of staff in senior positions 7% and a small increase in headcount.
0% The Company considers employee remuneration costs in the context of the general financial performance and position of the -10% -14% Company, including when determining the annual salary increase budget, the annual equity grant budget and annual bonus funding US GAAP Non GAAP Adjusted Dividends Staff -20% for the organization which, for 2013, will be determined purely on Net income EBITDA ROIC paid remuneration costs the basis of financial performance to underpin the relationship with business affordability.
Service contracts and termination arrangements The Companys policy on service contracts and termination arrangements is set out below.
As an overriding principle, it is the Companys policy that there should be no element of reward for failure.
The Committees approach when considering payments in the event of termination is to take account of the individual circumstances including the reason for termination, contractual obligations of both parties as well as share plan and pension scheme rules.
Notice period Q The Companys policy is that Executive Directors service contracts should provide for a notice period of 12 months from the Company and the Executive Director.
Q The Committee believes this policy provides an appropriate balance between the need to retain the services of key individuals for the benefit of the business and the need to limit the potential liabilities of the Company in the event of termination.
Contractual Q Executive Directors contracts allow for termination with contractual notice from the Company or termination payments by way of payment in lieu of notice, at the Companys discretion.
Neither notice nor a payment in lieu of notice will be given in the event of gross misconduct.
Q Payments in lieu of notice could potentially include up to 12 months base salary and the cash equivalent of 12 months pension contributions, car allowance and other contractual benets.
There is no contractual entitlement to annual incentive in respect of the notice period any award is at the Committees absolute discretion, performance-related and capped at the contractual target level.
Q Payment in lieu of notice would be made where circumstances dictate that the Executive Directors services are not required for the full 12 months of their notice period.
Contracts also allow for phased payments on termination, which allows for further reduction in payments if the individual nds alternative employment outside of the Company during the notice period.
Short term incentives Q Where an Executive Directors employment is terminated or an Executive Director is under notice of termination for any reason after the end of a performance year but before the payment is made, the executive may be eligible under the relevant plan rules for an annual incentive award for that performance year subject to an assessment based on performance achieved over the period.
No award will be made in the event of gross misconduct.
Q Where an Executive Directors employment is terminated during a performance year, a pro rata annual incentive award for the period worked in that performance year may be payable subject to an assessment based on performance achieved over the period.
Q As a matter of policy, the Committee would not expect to award an annual incentive for any period not worked where services are not provided to the Company by the executive.
56 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Long term incentives Q The treatment of unvested long term incentive awards is governed by the rules of the relevant incentive plan, as approved by shareholders.
Q Where an individuals employment terminates, the current Portfolio Share Plan PSP rules provide for unvested long term incentive awards to lapse except as set out below.
Q Under the current PSP rules, where an individual is determined to be a good leaver, unvested long term incentive awards vest upon termination subject to performance against applicable performance conditions and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, pro-rating for time.
Good leaver reasons include retirement in accordance with the Companys retirement policy, ill-health, injury or disability, and redundancy or in other circumstances that the Committee determines.
Pro-rating for time will be calculated on the basis of the number of complete weeks in the relevant period during which the executive was employed or would have been employed had the executive remained in employment throughout the notice period as a proportion of the number of complete weeks in the relevant period.
Q Where an Executive Directors employment is terminated or an Executive Director is under notice of termination for any reason at the date of award of any long term incentive awards, no long term incentive awards will be made.
Pension Q Normal treatment to apply as governed by the rules of the relevant pension plan: no enhancement for leavers will be made.
Change in control Q In relation to unvested long term incentive awards, the current PSP rules provide that unvested awards will normally only vest on a change of control to the extent that any performance condition has been satisfied, unless the Committee determines otherwise, and would be reduced where less than two years have elapsed from the relevant grant date.
Q In the case of the contracts for Mr. Russell and Mr. Hetherington only, if employment terminates within 12 months of a change of control, the individual will be entitled to a contractual payment of 12 months base salary and the cash equivalent of 12 months pension contributions, car allowance and other contractual benets.
There is no contractual entitlement to annual incentive in respect of termination following a change of control any award is at the Committees absolute discretion, performance-related and capped at the contractual maximum level.
Q The Companys policy is that future contracts of employment including that for Dr. Ornskov should not provide additional compensation on severance as a result of change of control.
The contracts for both Mr. Angus Russell and Mr. Graham Hetherington are dated July 2, 2008 and provide for a notice period of 12 months from the Company and the Executive Director.
Mr. Angus Russell is a Non-Executive Director of Intermune, Inc.
In respect of this position, he will retain fees payable to him for his services during 2012 which amounted to $55,000.
He was also awarded 6,000 options and 2,500 restricted share awards over shares in Intermune, Inc. in respect of this position.
Any other external appointments held by the Executive Directors do not attract fees.
Shire plc Annual Report 2012 57 Directors remuneration report 6.
Share ownership policy The Committee believes that employee share ownership is an important means to support long term commitment to the Company and the alignment of employee interests with those of shareholders.
The interests of the Executive Directors and other senior executives are closely aligned with those of other shareholders in this regard through the operation of the Companys long term incentive plan and, for the Leadership Team, the deferral of one quarter of any EAIP award into shares for a period of three years.
These remuneration elements constitute a significant proportion of individual remuneration packages.
The CEO, CFO and other members of the Leadership Team are encouraged to own shares in the Company equivalent to 200%, 150% and 100% of base salary, respectively, within a five-year period following their Leadership Team appointment.
All shares beneficially owned by an executive or deferred under the EAIP count towards achieving these guidelines.
The Committee reviews share ownership levels annually for this group.
Current shareholding levels for Directors are set out in the table below.
Shares at December 31, 2012 SARs Options at December 31, 2012 Conditional Conditional Total shares at December 31, Shareholding Total shares at 2012 guideline Subject to Subject to Subject to December 31, % of 2012 % of 2012 performance deferral only performance Subject to 1 Security type 2012 salary salary beneficial PSA Awards EAIP Awards Vested SAR Awards deferral only 2 Matthew Emmens ADS 6,290 6,290 Ordinary Shares 92,874 92,874 Angus Russell ADS 14,322 157,188 14,322 216,603 736% 200% Ordinary Shares 261,991 261,991 Graham Hetherington Ordinary Shares 61,977 262% 150% 38,352 200,373 23,625 273,241 David Kappler Ordinary Shares 10,000 10,000 Anne Minto Ordinary Shares 2,228 2,228 1 One ADS is equal to three Ordinary Shares.
2 Mr. Emmens beneficial interests include 417 ADSs held by his partner.
3 Mr. Burns, Dr. Gillis, Dr. Ginsburg, Ms. Kilsby and Mr. Stout hold no interests in the share capital of Shire plc.
4 There were no changes in shareholdings in the period from December 31, 2012 and February 15, 2013.
The Company also operates broad-based share plans Sharesave plan in the UK and an Employee Stock Purchase Plan in the US and other countries to encourage wider share ownership among the Companys employees.
Awards under the Companys long term incentive plans and broad-based share plans are satisfied either by market purchased shares which are held in an employee benefit trust or the issue of new shares within the limits agreed by shareholders when the plans were approved.
These limits comply with the Association of British Insurers guidelines which require that no more than 10% of a companys issued share capital may be used for employee share plans in any 10-year period.
Within the 10% limit, up to 5% may be used for discretionary employee share plans under these guidelines.
Employee share ownership is an important means to support alignment of employee interests with those of shareholders 7.
Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment and are appointed by the Board ordinarily for a term of two years.
Their initial appointment and any subsequent re-appointment are subject to election, and thereafter, annual re-election by shareholders.
NonExecutive Directors are not entitled to compensation for loss of ofce.
Details of the letters of appointment and length of service for each Non-Executive Director are as follows: Date of current letter of 1 Director appointment Expiry of current term Matthew Emmens June 18, 2012 June 17, 2014 David Kappler April 5, 2012 April 4, 2014 William Burns March 15, 2012 March 14, 2014 Dr. Steven Gillis October 1, 2012 September 30, 2014 Dr. David Ginsburg June 16, 2012 June 15, 2014 Susan Kilsby September 1, 2011 August 31, 2013 2 Dr. Jeffrey Leiden January 1, 2012 N A Anne Minto June 16, 2012 June 15, 2014 David Stout October 31, 2011 October 30, 2013 1 All Non-Executive Directors are subject to a three-month notice period.
2 Dr. Jeffrey Leiden stepped down from the Board on January 31, 2012.
58 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Governance The Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to join the Groups pension scheme.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Group share plans or other employee benefit schemes with the exception of the Chairman who is provided with private family medical coverage to which both he and the Company contribute and no options have been granted to Non-Executive Directors in their capacity as Non-Executive Directors of Shire plc.
The fees paid to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are not performance-related.
Fees are determined by the Executive Directors and the Chairman, with the exception of the Chairmans fee which is determined by the Committee.
Fees are benchmarked against Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees of a blend of US and UK companies, similar to those used for benchmarking the Executive Directors.
Each Non-Executive Director is paid a fee for serving as a Non-Executive Director, additional fees for membership or chairmanship of the Audit, Compliance & Risk, Remuneration, Nomination and Science & Technology Committees.
The Chairman receives an inclusive fee.
Travel allowances are made for transatlantic trips made for Board meetings.
Details of fees levels for 2012 and 2013 are set out in the table below.
Taking into account market movements based on independent data provided by  LLP and the need to be able to attract high quality, appropriately qualied people, it was agreed to increase the fee levels as set out below.
In addition, it was decided that the Non-Executive Directors will, from January 1, 2013, receive 25% of their total fees in the form of shares.
Given his significant shareholding in Shire, the Chairman will continue to receive his fee in the form of cash only.
1 Annual Fees 2012 Fees 2013 Fees Board membership Chairman of the Board inclusive of all committees 370,000 390,000 Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director inclusive of Non-Executive Director fee 92,500 98,000 Non-Executive Director 80,000 86,400 Committee membership Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee Chairman 20,000 20,000 Remuneration Committee Chairman 15,000 18,000 Science & Technology Committee Chairman 15,000 15,000 Nomination Committee Chairman 12,500 12,500 Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee member 10,000 10,000 Remuneration Committee member 7,500 9,000 Science & Technology Committee member 7,500 7,500 Nomination Committee member 5,000 5,750 1 Non-Executive Directors receive a 5,000 travel allowance for each transatlantic trip made for Board meetings.
Details of the fees received during 2012 are set out in the audited table below.
2 Mr. Emmens 2011 and 2012 fees include private medical insurance.
3 Mr. Burns was appointed as a member of the Nomination Committee on July 27, 2011 and as a member of the Science & Technology Committee on February 8, 2012.
4 Dr. Gillis was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and as a member of the Remuneration Committee and the Science & Technology Committee on October 1, 2012.
5 Ms. Kilsby was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and a member of the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee on September 1, 2011.
6 Dr. Leiden stepped down from the Board and as a member of the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee and as Chairman of the Science & Technology Committee on January 31, 2012.
7 Ms. Minto was appointed as a member of the Nomination Committee on February 8, 2012.
8 Mr. Stout was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee on July 27, 2011.
Shire plc Annual Report 2012 59 Directors remuneration report Part B: Remuneration implementation 8.
Remuneration Committee Terms of reference To ensure reward arrangements support the Companys pay-for-performance philosophy, strategy and culture, the Committee reviews compensation and benefit plans for the Executive Directors, senior leadership, i. e. Leadership Team members, and the broader employee population.
In December 2012, the Committee reviewed its terms of reference and confirmed that they remain appropriate.
The annual performance evaluation of the Board and its Committees was externally facilitated in 2012 and concluded that the Board and all its Committees were functioning strongly in accordance with good corporate governance.
Membership The Board considers all members of the Committee to be independent.
The Directors in the table below served as members of the Committee during the year.
Number of Member throughout meetings 1 Committee member 2012 attended Anne Minto Chairman Yes 8 William Burns Yes 8 2 Dr. Steven Gillis From October 1, 2012 3 Dr. Jeffrey Leiden To January 31, 2012 N A David Stout Yes 8 1.
The Committee met on eight occasions during 2012, three of which were unscheduled meetings.
Dr. Gillis attended all the meetings he was eligible to attend.
The Chairman and the CEO attend meetings of the Committee by invitation, but neither is present in any discussions relating to their own remuneration.
Advisors In discharging its responsibilities in 2012, the Committee was materially assisted by JoAnn Verderese, Vice President, Total Rewards and Ann Judge, Chief Human Resources officer.
The Committee has access to external advice as required.
Following a formal review of their appointment in early 2012,  LLP PwC was reappointed by the Committee as the independent external advisor to the Committee.
PwC also provided global consultancy services to the Company in 2012, primarily in respect of tax matters.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group which operates a code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
2012 Remuneration Committee activities In 2012, the Committee discussed the key agenda items set out in the following table: Key agenda items Q Assessment of Company performance against the 2011 annual bonus funding scorecard: Q Approval of 2011 performance and remuneration decisions for the CEO, CFO and oversight of the rest of the Leadership Team: Q Determination of the vesting percentage of the 2009 awards granted under the PSP for Executive Directors: Q Approval of the 2012 annual bonus funding scorecard objectives and key performance indicators: Q Approval of the 2012 Performance Matrix for PSP awards to Executive Directors: Q Approval of the 2011 Directors Remuneration Report: Q Consideration of trends in executive remuneration and corporate governance developments: Q Consideration of proposals from the UK Governments Department for Business, Innovation and Skills: Q Review of shareholder and proxy advisory rm feedback on the 2011 Directors Remuneration Report: Q Approval of annual offerings of Sharesave and Employee Stock Purchase Plans ESPP awards: Q Approval of retirement and joining arrangements for the outgoing CEO and incoming CEO Designate: Q Review of the 2012 year end compensation process and budgets for all employees: Q Preliminary discussion of 2012 performance and remuneration decisions for the CEO, CFO and the rest of the Leadership Team, including peer group review: Q Preliminary review of the 2013 Performance Matrix for PSP awards to Executive Directors: Q Preliminary review of the 2013 annual bonus funding scorecard: Q Review of the Chairmans fees: Q Review of CEO, CFO and the rest of the Leadership Teams shareholdings: and Q Review of the Committees terms of reference.
60 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Shareholder context for the Committees activities The table below shows how shareholders voted on the advisory vote in relation to the 2011 Directors Remuneration Report at the 2012 AGM as a percentage of votes cast, together with the percentage of the shareholder base that abstained.
This endorsement of the current remuneration approach informed the Committees activities and decision making in 2012.
For as % of Against as % Abstentions as votes validly of votes validly % of issued cast cast share capital Votes 98.39% 1.61% 0.32% Abstentions are not a vote in law and are not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes validly cast.
98% of shareholder votes cast at last years AGM were in support of the 2011 Directors Remuneration Report 9.
2012 remuneration for the Executive Directors Summary of 2012 remuneration audited EAIP EAIP PSP Pension cash deferred vesting 2012 Total Base salary contributions Other benets element share element Subtotal value 2011 Total $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Angus Russell 1,290 387 88 845 281 2,891 9,033 11,924 17,332 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Graham Hetherington 465 116 21 270 90 962 2,341 3,303 4,060 In both 2011 and 2012, performance-based remuneration constituted the significant majority of total remuneration Mr. Russells remuneration, which is paid through the US payroll, is reported in US Dollars.
Base salary: Base salary corresponds to the amounts received during the year.
Pension Mr. Russell receives a contribution of 30% of base salary into Company plans and Mr. Hetherington receives a contributions: contribution of 25% of base salary into Company plans and or by way of a cash allowance.
In 2012 Mr. Hetherington received his total pension contribution as a cash allowance.
Other benets: Other benets include car allowance and private fuel, personal financial planning assistance, long term disability and life cover, and private medical insurance.
The 2011 gure for Mr. Russell has been restated to include payments in relation to personal financial planning assistance and life cover, which should have been disclosed in 2011.
EAIP: As a result of corporate and individual performance, the Committee approved an EAIP award of 87% of base salary of 180% maximum for Mr. Russell and an EAIP award of 77% of base salary of 160% maximum for Mr. Hetherington.
25% of each of these awards is deferred in shares for a further three years.
PSP: The value reects maximum vesting under the 2010 performance matrix that was set on grant.
This, in turn, reects the Company having achieved compound annual EBITDA growth of 16.4% and an increase in ROIC of 193 basis points per annum from 8.7% to 14.5% over the performance period, together with a 26% increase in the Ordinary Share price and a 35% increase in the ADS price since the grant date.
The vesting values were calculated using the average share price over the last quarter of 2012.
Total: In both 2011 and 2012, the totals were signicantly impacted by share price growth between the PSP grant and vesting dates.
This alignment with shareholders and the significant role that long term variable remuneration plays in the overall remuneration package is consistent with our remuneration policy and the long term nature of our business.
In relation to 2012, stock price growth on the 2010 PSP awards from $64.91 to $87.95 the average ADS price over the last quarter of 2012 and from 14.43 to 18.23 the average Ordinary Share price over the last quarter of 2012 accounts for 35% of the total remuneration gure for Mr. Russell and 27% of the total for Mr. Hetherington.
The 2011 total reects full vesting under the two relative TSR performance targets that were set on grant for the 2009 PSP awards the Company having achieved a ranking of 8th among the FTSE 100 excluding financial institutions and 3rd among its international pharmaceutical group, together with a 155% increase in the share price since the grant date.
This share price growth from 8.83 to 22.52 accounts for 65% of the 2011 total remuneration gure for Mr. Russell and 59% of the total for Mr. Hetherington.
The vesting values were calculated using the closing mid-market share price on the date of vesting, February 20, 2012.
Mr. Russells 2009 Award was granted over ordinary shares.
The Pound Sterling vesting value was translated into US Dollars at the closing exchange rate on the vesting date 1:$1.5851.
Shire plc Annual Report 2012 61 Directors remuneration report 2012 Executive Annual Incentive Plan For 2012, corporate objectives were established in a scorecard format with key performance measures grouped under Financial 50% weighting and Non Financial 50% weighting dimensions.
These objectives and key performance measures are directly aligned with the strategy and key performance measures set out on pages 10 and 14 to 15 of this report.
The targets were set by the Committee both in the context of annual performance as well as to ensure progress towards longer term goals.
Financial 50% Non Financial 50% Q Achieving net product sales targets: Key performance measures designed to focus on each of the following: Q Achieving Non GAAP EBITDA targets: and Q Strengthening the commercial portfolio over 2012-2015: Q Achieving Adjusted ROIC targets.
Q Expanding the development pipeline portfolio: and Q Enhancing the leadership capabilities in the organization.
For 2012, the Companys key achievements included the following: Q Revenues from net product sales in 2012 were up 12% to $4.4 billion driven by strong growth from the Groups product sales including VYVANSE up 28% to $1,030 million, VPRIV up 20% to $307 million, INTUNIV up 29% to $288 million and FIRAZYR up 252% to $116 million.
Q Non GAAP EBITDA increased by 7% during 2012 as we invested in our promising pipeline leading to total operating expenses increasing at a slightly higher rate than total revenues.
Research and Development expenditure was up 16% particularly due to investment in new uses for lisdexamfetamine dimesylate and SPD602 for Iron Overload.
The effect of higher Research and Development expenditure was moderated by a lower rate of increase in Selling, General and Administrative expenditure up 7%.
Q Adjusted ROIC grew by 110 basis points in 2012 over 2011 due to higher product sales up 12%, an improved tax rate and continued operating leverage.
Q The Companys operating model emphasizes growth being achieved both organically and through acquisitions to enhance the diversity of future growth sources.
Measures of performance in 2012 include: Approval by the FDA of VYVANSE for the maintenance treatment of ADHD in adults: A positive outcome from the European Decentralised Procedure for ELVANSE marketed as VYVANSE in the US : Approval of DERMAGRAFT in Canada for the treatment of diabetic foot ulcers: Approval of FOSRENOL through the European Decentralised Procedure for an oral powder formulation of FOSRENOL.
Q The Company has successfully completed a range of acquisitions, licenses and collaborations for various target assets and technology platforms, which have contributed to the expansion and diversication of Shires development pipeline.
Transactions completed in 2012 include: Acquisitions: FerroKin Biosciences, Inc. iron & acitinide chelation and substantially all the assets of Pervasis Therapeutics, Inc. arteriovenous access.
Licenses: US rights to prucalopride marketed in certain countries in Europe as RESOLOR for the symptomatic treatment of chronic constipation, certain novel adenosine A2a antagonist compounds from Heptares Therapeutics Ltd being considered as candidates for central nervous system disorders and protease-based therapies from IGAN Biosciences, Inc IgA nethropathy.
Collaborations: Sangamo Biosciences Inc zinc nger DNA-binding protein technology, arGEN-X B. V. therapeutic antibody treatments, TIGEM gene therapy research and Boston Childrens Hospital research in rare diseases.
Q In 2012, Shire dened the critical leadership capabilities required to fuel the Companys growth and innovation while differentiating Shire leaders from their competitors.
With this foundation, leaders from across the organization were assessed against the capabilities and individualized development plans were executed.
Shire continued to strengthen the leadership pipeline by incorporating the assessment of leadership capabilities into selection and promotion practices across the Company.
By comparing potential hires against common criteria, the Company is better positioned to ensure the most capable leaders are selected.
In determining 2012 EAIP awards for the Executive Directors, the Committee considered performance against the key performance measures, including the achievements set out above, as well as performance against personal objectives.
The Committee approved the awards set out in the following table.
% of 2012 % of target % of maximum 2012 EAIP award Amount base salary opportunity opportunity Angus Russell $1,126,000 87% 97% 48% Graham Hetherington 360,000 77% 97% 48% 62 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Long term incentive awards vesting in 2013 The performance period for the 2010 PSP awards to the Executive Directors ended on December 31, 2012 with vesting in March 2013.
As previously disclosed, the Committee reserves the right to make adjustments to the performance conditions to reect significant one off items which occur during the performance period.
Recognising the need to exercise discretion in an informed and prudent manner, the Committee has committed to make full and clear disclosure of any such adjustments, together with the ROIC performance achieved, at the end of each performance period.
In respect of the 2010 PSP awards, the Committee carried out a comprehensive review of potential adjusting events against the following guidelines which were agreed in advance of the start of the performance period: Q The event results from a strategic action that has a short term impact on ROIC or EBITDA growth, but is in the long term interest of shareholders or the event was external and results in a significant change to the Companys operating environment: Q The event is a one off as opposed to recurring in nature: Q The event is significant which is dened by reference to its impact on EBITDA relative to a materiality threshold: and Q The event was not taken into account when the performance matrix was set.
In light of the above, the Committee determined that two adjustments would be appropriate: 1.
To exclude the impact of the acquisition of Advanced BioHealing which had a short term negative impact on EBITDA and ROIC performance in 2012.
This strategic acquisition has led to the creation of the new Regenerative Medicine business unit.
The ABH business provides a platform based on tissue generation using cell based therapies that complements Shires specialty focus and biologics manufacturing capabilities.
In addition, ABHs marketed product, DERMAGRAFT, treats a symptomatic condition in a growing and under-penetrated market, served by specialist physicians, tting well with Shires product portfolio: and 2.
To exclude the impact of the Japanese tsunami on Fosrenol sales in that market which benefited Shires EBITDA and ROIC performance in 2012: The Companys royalty and licensing revenue for Fosrenol benefited from increased sales made by the Companys partner in Japan, following the tsunami which disrupted a key competitors supply chain.
The Committee considered these adjustments appropriate following a full review.
The Committee noted that these adjustments did not in fact result in a change in the vesting outcome under the performance conditions applicable to the 2010 PSP awards, either individually or taken together.
The table below sets out a summary of the performance conditions, performance against these conditions as well as an estimate of the resulting gross vesting value.
This estimate is on the basis of an average share price over the last quarter of the financial year given the 2010 PSP awards 2010-2013 performance period vest following the date of this report.
It is these estimated values that are included in the 2012 summary remuneration table on page 61.
This approach is in accordance with the UK Governments draft Remuneration Reporting Regulations issued in 2012.
Resulting vesting 2012 PSP awards Performance conditions Performance outcome 000 4.0x vesting multiplier based on: Angus Russell $9,033 Performance matrix 16.4% CAGR in EBITDA: and Graham Hetherington details set out below 193 bp p. a. increase in ROIC from 8.7% to 14.5%, 2,341 between 2009 and 2012 EBITDA growth CAGR 2009-2012 Adjusted ROIC Increase bp p. a.
In respect of the full vesting of the award made 4.0x vesting under the matrix, the Committee noted not only the very strong ROIC and EBITDA performance against these targets, but also Shires Ordinary Share price growth of 26% and ADS price growth of 35% from the grant date.
Shire plc Annual Report 2012 63 Directors remuneration report 10.
Pay for performance linkage The chart below shows the correlation between CEO pay and performance over time.
CEO pay for performance linkage Remuneration Index: $000s 2008 100 250 20,000 18,000 225 16,000 200 14,000 175 12,000 150 10,000 125 8,000 100 6,000 75 4,000 50 2,000 25 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Fixed Pay EAIP annual bonus PSP vesting value Total Remuneration TSR TSR Total Shareholder Return The Companys TSR performance over the period is calculated as the change indexed between the fourth quarter TSR in the relevant year and the base year.
This includes a share price increase of 59% in the ordinary shares and 72% in the ADSs over the 2008-2012 period the difference being primarily due to exchange rate movements.
Total remuneration is calculated on the same basis as the 2012 remuneration summary in the previous section.
In particular, this includes the value of long term incentives that vest following the end of each financial year, including accrued dividends.
These are valued using the share price at the date of vesting or, for the 2012 gures only, using an average share price over the last quarter of the financial year given the 2010 PSP awards 2010-2013 performance period vest following the date of this report.
These calculations are based on the methodology outlined in the UK Governments draft Remuneration Reporting Regulations issued in 2012.
The reduction in CEO pay from 2011 is largely driven by a decrease in the long term incentive vesting value, reecting the share price decrease between the 2011 and 2012 long term incentive vesting dates.
This is consistent with the remuneration policy which ensures that a significant proportion of the remuneration package is made up of long term variable pay delivered in equity.
The pay for performance linkage and shareholder alignment is further enhanced by the operation of the Companys share ownership guidelines see the share ownership section on page 58 for details of these shareholdings.
Other remuneration decisions Retirement arrangements for Angus Russell As announced on October 25, 2012, Mr. Russell is due to relinquish his responsibilities as Chief Executive officer and retire from the Board of the Company on April 30, 2013, after 13 years of service.
While full disclosure surrounding Mr. Russells retirement arrangements is not required before departure, in line with the Committees policy of transparency with shareholders, it was felt appropriate to disclose the terms in this report.
On leaving the Company, Mr. Russell will receive a contractual payment of approximately $880,000 in lieu of the remainder of the contractual notice period, representing approximately 6 months base pay, pension and other contractual benets.
Mr. Russell will be entitled to a pro-rated bonus subject to the assessment of performance in respect of that part of 2013 during which he is Chief Executive officer.
The Committee also determined that there should be no bonus award relating to the contractual notice period beyond April 30, 2013, being the date on which Mr. Russell will cease employment with Shire.
Under the rules of the Performance Share Plan approved by shareholders in respect of a retiree, unvested share awards vest on retirement on a pro rata basis and subject to the assessment of performance against the relevant performance conditions as measured up to date of retirement.
This treatment will be applied to Mr. Russells outstanding grants.
The rules relating to retirement will also be applied in respect of all unexercised SAR awards previously granted to Mr. Russell under the PSP, which require the options to be exercised within 12 months of retirement.
Those elements of Mr. Russells annual bonus from previous years that were compulsorily deferred into shares under the EAIP will vest in accordance with the plan rules at the end of the relevant three-year vesting periods.
The retirement arrangements are consistent with our policy on termination arrangements 64 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Governance In terms of Mr. Russells retirement benets, he will be entitled to a distribution or rollover of his vested Shire US 401 k Plan account balance and a distribution of his SERP account balance, and will be eligible to withdraw funds from his deferred UK pension due to his early retirement.
These distribution options are in accordance with the rules of the relevant plan without any form of enhancement being made.
These arrangements are consistent with our policy on termination arrangements set out earlier in this report.
In addition, the Committee determined that no 2013 base salary increase or 2013 PSP grant would be appropriate given Mr. Russells scheduled retirement.
Remuneration arrangements for Flemming Ornskov The Committee considered in detail the remuneration arrangements for Dr. Ornskov to ensure that they were in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders, and appropriate to secure his appointment to Shire.
On appointment to Chief Executive, Dr. Ornskovs remuneration will comprise an annual base salary of $1,200,000.
This is below the current incumbents salary and the median for comparable roles within the identied mid-Atlantic peer group.
In line with our remuneration policy, his salary will be moved towards the median for comparable roles over time, subject to satisfactory performance.
The annual bonus opportunity for the 2013 performance year will be 180% of base salary at maximum and 90% of base salary at target, in line with the current Chief Executive officer level.
The PSP award to be made in 2013 will be consistent with the policy for the Chief Executive officer in respect of both quantum and performance conditions.
Dr. Ornskov will also be expected to build up a significant shareholding, in line with Shires remuneration policy for Executive Directors, and will also be eligible for retirement and other benets consistent with his role.
Dr. Ornskov joined the Board and the Company on January 2, 2013.
There will be a handover period until the AGM in April to ensure a smooth transition prior to Mr. Russells retirement.
During this period, Dr. Ornskov will be subject to transitional remuneration arrangements before formally taking over the role of Chief Executive, and will receive an annual salary of $900,000.
The Committee sought to structure these replacement awards such that overall they were no more generous in terms of quantum or vesting period than the long term incentives due to be forfeited Dr. Ornskov will be entitled to the following cash and equity grants to reect the awards forfeited by him on his departure from his previous employment.
In determining quantum and structure of these commitments, the Committee sought to replicate the fair values and timing of the compensation foregone in line with best practice.
To replace cash payments foregone, he will receive an award of $450,000 in cash payable in April 2013 and an award of restricted stock of $1,400,000 released after two years subject to continued employment.
Despite the corresponding payments being due to be paid in cash in 2013 by his previous employer, the Committee considered it would be appropriate to deliver the significant majority of the value in Shire deferred shares which would not be released for two years together with shares representing accumulated dividends and will be subject to continued employment for this time.
This will also support Dr. Ornskov building up a significant shareholding to align his interests with those of other shareholders.
In addition, Dr. Ornskov will be eligible to receive PSP awards with an aggregate expected value of $925,000 to replace equity awards foregone which will vest on the third anniversary of grant, subject to the 2013 performance matrix as set out earlier in this report and his continued employment with Shire.
The Committee considered these arrangements in detail and sought to structure these replacement awards such that overall they were no more generous in terms of quantum or vesting period than the long term incentives due to be forfeited with particular reference to the performance conditions applied to the award.
The Committee aimed to ensure that they were in the best interests of shareholders and appropriate to secure Dr. Ornskovs appointment to Shire.
Dr. Ornskov will also be eligible for certain temporary living expenses in advance of his permanent relocation to the United States at which point he will be eligible for relocation assistance in line with the same policy applicable to senior executives across the organization.
Shire plc Annual Report 2012 65 Directors remuneration report 12.
Outstanding long term incentive awards The interests of each Director under the PSP and EAIP are set out on page 67.
Further detail in relation to awards made in 2012 and vesting in 2012 are set out below.
Long term incentive awards made in 2012 For 2012, as previously disclosed, the face value of PSP awards were as set out in the table below.
The base award is one quarter of the total award made 1.0x vesting under the matrix and is payable for threshold performance, with nil vesting below this performance level.
Up to four times the base award 4.0x vesting under the matrix is payable for maximum performance, which would result in the total award vesting.
In addition, awards only vest if the Committee determines that the underlying performance of the Company is sufficient to justify the vesting of the award.
Face value of base Face value of total Face value of total award threshold award maximum award maximum vesting vesting vesting % of 2012 salary % of 2012 salary 000 1.0x vesting under 4.0x vesting under 4.0x vesting under 2012 PSP awards Award type performance matrix performance matrix performance matrix SAR 98% 391% $5,044 Angus Russell PSA 74% 294% $3,783 SAR 66% 265% 1,231 Graham Hetherington PSA 49% 195% 903 As previously disclosed, the 2012 performance matrix is set out below.
The same denitions and measurement approach applies as set out in the earlier policy section of this report.
EBITDA growth CAGR 2011-2014 Adjusted ROIC Increase bp p. a.
The table below sets out a summary of the performance conditions, performance against these conditions as well as the resulting gross vesting value using the share price on the vesting date.
Resulting 2009 PSP awards Performance conditions Performance outcome vesting 000 The Companys TSR was 139.6% for the three-month Relative Total Shareholder Return averaging period, which placed it 8th among the FTSE 100 TSR measured against two excluding financial institutions and 3rd among its comparator groups, namely FTSE Angus Russell 9,127 international pharmaceutical comparator group.
100 constituents excluding financial institutions and a group of As previously disclosed, this resulted in a vesting of 100% of international companies from Graham Hetherington 3,088 the award, reecting the strong share price performance of the pharmaceutical sector.
the Company over the period from 8.83 to 22.52.
Supplemental information Five-year historical TSR performance Performance graph Change in value of a hypothetical 100 holding over five years The graph opposite sets out the Companys TSR performance for five years ending December 31, 2012, comparing the TSR Rebased to 100 GBP performance of a hypothetical 100 holding of Shire plcs shares with that of a holding of shares in the FTSE 100 Index.
240 The Company is a member of the FTSE 100 Index and 200 consequently, for the purpose of the graph set out opposite, the FTSE 100 Index has been selected as the appropriate index.
160 120 80 40 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Shire FTSE 100 66 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Directors interests under long term plans for Executive Directors PSA and SAR awards under the Portfolio Share Plan and deferred share awards under the Executive Annual Incentive Plan which were outstanding, awarded, lapsed or exercised during the year are set out in the audited table below.
One ADS is equal to three Ordinary Shares.
2 The maximum SAR and PSA awards are granted and, subject to the achievement of performance conditions, adjusted at the date of vesting.
3 Performance conditions attached to SAR and PSA awards granted in 2010, 2011 and 2012 are Adjusted ROIC and Non GAAP EBITDA.
Further information on the 2010 and 2012 performance matrices can be found on pages 63 and 66 respectively: the same performance matrix operated for both 2010 and 2011 SAR and PSA awards.
4 In accordance with the plan rules, the vested PSA awards have been increased to reect the dividends paid by Shire in the period from the grant date to the vesting date.
5 The exercise price for SAR awards granted in 2012 is equal to the three-day average up to and including the date of award, of the closing mid-market share price.
The exercise price for SAR awards granted prior to 2011 is the closing mid-market share price on the date of award.
6 As previously disclosed, the Company moved to calculating the number of PSA and SAR awards using an approach based on the average three-day closing mid-market share price at the time of grant for the awards made in 2010 and subsequently, rather than an average closing mid-market share price over the prior twelve month period which had historically been applied.
7 On November 1, 2012, Mr. Russell was granted an option over ADSs pursuant to the Shire Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
Mr. Russell elected to save $480.76 per fortnight.
The option price is the lower of 85% of the fair market value of an ADS on November 1, 2012 and 85% of the fair market value of an ADS on the exercise date, October 31, 2013.
The market price of the Companys Ordinary Shares at December 31, 2012 was 18.87 and the range during the year was 17.27 to 23.00.
The market price of the Companys ADSs at December 31, 2012 was $92.18 and the range during the year was $82.45 to $108.20.
Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors on February 25, 2013 and signed on its behalf by: Anne Minto Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Shire plc Annual Report 2012 67
