Directors report | Governance | Remuneration report 52 REMUNERATION REPORT Introduction t ensure that the executive directors and first line and second line 2011 12 was a very good trading year for the group with adjusted executives are provided with appropriate, stretching incentives operating profit and adjusted earnings per share substantially ahead to encourage enhanced performance and are, in a fair and of last year.
These excellent results have been achieved despite responsible manner, rewarded for their contributions to the some continuing operational challenges and difficult trading long-term success of the Company: conditions experienced by one or two of our businesses, as well as t review the remuneration trends across the Company or group a non-cash charge of 98m for the impairment of assets in George when determining the remuneration policy for executive directors: Weston Foods in Australia.
t consider and determine all elements of the remuneration of the The performance graph below illustrates the performance of the executive directors, receiving advisory information on the same Company over the past five years from September 2007 to September in relation to the remuneration of the first line executives: 2012, in terms of total shareholder return compared with that of the companies comprising the FTSE 100 index.
This index has been t approve the design, determine targets for and monitor the operation selected because it represents a cross-section of leading UK companies.
of any performance-related pay schemes operated by the Company, and approve total annual payments under such schemes: and Year-on-year TSR ABF v FTSE 100 2007 100 t consider and determine other provisions of the service agreements 200 of the executive directors and ensure that contractual terms on 180 termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual and the Company and that failure is not rewarded and loss is mitigated.
160 ABF Remuneration policy 140 The overall remuneration policy of the Company aims to: 120 t provide alignment between remuneration and the Companys business objectives: 100 FTSE 100 t align executive rewards with shareholder value: 80 t attract and retain high-calibre executive directors: 60 t motivate executive directors to achieve challenging 40 performance levels and reward them for so doing: 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 t recognise both individual and corporate achievement: and At close of business on 14 September 2012, the last trading day t reect the diversity of the groups interests.
before the end of the financial year, the market value of the Companys ordinary shares was 1275p.
During the previous 12 months, the The remuneration of executive directors is determined by the price ranged from 1069p to 1336p.
Remuneration committee taking into account group performance, individual performance and competitive market practice as well as The Remuneration committee the pay and conditions of the groups UK employees.
The total The Remuneration committee is responsible to the board for annual remuneration of executive directors comprises base salary, determining the remuneration policy for executive directors, together a cash bonus, shares granted under a long-term incentive scheme, with the specific terms and conditions of employment of each individual pension provisions and other benefits.
director, and for reviewing the overall policy for executive remuneration.
The Remuneration committee continues to believe that a substantial The government has announced new remuneration reporting element of compensation should be at risk in order to drive and proposals, the aim of which is to improve transparency of reporting reward performance and to align better the interests of executives in the area of executive pay and to give shareholders greater power with those of shareholders.
The proportion of variable pay in the over future pay policy.
The Remuneration committee welcomes form of annual performance bonus and long-term incentives these developments and, in the coming year, will be reviewing its compared to base salary for executive directors is unchanged at remuneration practices and reporting in light of these proposed around 1.6 to 1 for on target performance.
No increase in incentive reforms.
This report has been split into policy and implementation awards is proposed for 2012 13. sections to reflect the proposed reforms.
The composition of the executive directors remuneration packages The board has recently reviewed the remit of the Remuneration for on target and maximum performance is set out below: committee.
In summary it has agreed that the Remuneration committee will: Executive directors composition of overall package % t determine and agree the framework or broad policy for the Maximum remuneration of the Chairman and the executive directors of the Company: On target t determine the framework or broad policy for the remuneration Threshold for the first line and second line reports to the Chief Executive and approve individual remuneration decisions when proposed 0 100 200 300 400 500 arrangements fall outside the broad policy for remuneration: Base salary Annual bonus Long-term incentive Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Governance | Remuneration report 53 First line reports to the Chief Executive and other senior executives are also rewarded broadly within the same overall remuneration policy as executive directors, in order to ensure fairness and common purpose across the group.
Other executives therefore participate in incentive arrangements similar to those of the executive directors, but with lower levels of potential payout.
The proportion of variable pay to base salary for first line executives is unchanged at around 1 to 1 for on-target performance.
No changes to incentive yields or structures are proposed for 2012 13.
Base salary Base salaries are reviewed in relation to median market data for comparable companies in terms of size, market sector and complexity.
Other considerations are individual experience, performance, and scope of responsibility.
The committee also receives an annual update from the Group HR Director concerning the level of increases awarded to UK employees across the group.
Base salaries are normally reviewed on an annual basis or following a significant change in responsibilities.
Annual bonus Executive directors and other senior executives are eligible to participate in an annual cash-based bonus scheme with payments based on the achievement of stretching financial targets and personal performance assessed against individual short and medium-term objectives.
The group comprises a very diverse set of businesses which are required to deliver financial progress over both the short and long term.
Financial targets for all executives are set on a business-by-business basis and reflect what can be directly influenced and the area of work for which each executive is accountable.
Adjusted operating profit and working capital were chosen as the prime financial measures as they are common metrics which are used across the group on a day-to-day basis to drive and monitor business performance.
At the start of the financial year, budgeted operating profit is set as the on target performance level, and the Remuneration committee determines the range of operating profit at which minimum and maximum incentive payouts will be made.
Similarly, the target and range for average working capital as a percentage of sales is determined at the start of the financial year.
This metric is used as a multiplier to the bonus achieved for adjusted operating profit, whereby that bonus can be enhanced or reduced by up to 20%.
The maximum annual performance bonus opportunity for executive directors in 2011 12 was 150% of base salary.
Of that 150%, up to 130% of base salary may be paid for achievement of financial results as outlined above, and up to 20% of base salary may be paid for achievement of specific personal objectives.
Bonuses to be paid to each of the executive directors for the personal element are based on an assessment of their individual performance against specific objectives for the appropriate financial year.
On target financial performance will yield a bonus of half the maximum financial payout, and two thirds of the potential personal performance element will be deemed on target, giving an overall total of around 78% of base salary for on target performance.
The structure and value of the annual performance bonus is shown below: Structure and value of executive directors annual performance bonus Financial results Personal element Total bonus Modification Payout based to payout based Overall on operating on average financial profit only working capital payout Maximum 108.3% x 1.2 130.0% 20.0% 150.0% On target 65.0% x 1.0 65.0% Plus 13.3% 78.3% Threshold 15.0% x 0.8 12.0% 0.0% 12.0% The Remuneration committee regularly reviews the annual performance bonus plans for both executive directors and for other groups of executives below board level to ensure that remuneration packages remain at a level sufficient to attract and retain high-calibre individuals.
No changes to annual performance bonus plans are proposed for 2012 13.
Long-term incentives Long-term incentives are paid in shares to reward long-term business growth and to promote executive retention.
The Associated British Foods Executive Share Incentive Plan 2003 the Share Incentive Plan was established following shareholder approval at the 2003 annual general meeting.
This plan provides for long-term awards to be made in the form of conditional allocations of shares, subject to agreed performance targets being satisfied over a specified three-year period.
Since 2006, annual allocations of conditional shares have been made to executive directors and other senior executives, thereby creating a series of overlapping three-year performance periods.
The first four allocations to executive directors had a maximum face value of 125% of base salary.
In December 2010, following agreement from shareholders at the annual general meeting, the maximum grant level under the Share Incentive Plan was increased to 200% of base salary.
This increase was to ensure that long-term incentive plan opportunities remained competitive and commensurate with the increased size, complexity and international reach of the organisation.
The share allocations made to executive directors in 2010 and 2011 were at 200% of base salary.
No further changes to the long-term incentive plan yields are planned at the present time.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Governance | Remuneration report 54 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Since 2006 group performance for the Share Incentive Plan has Long-term incentives for first and second line executives with been measured against an absolute range of 5% to 11% compound divisional responsibility are largely measured against adjusted annual growth in adjusted earnings per share.
Adjusted earnings operating profit and working capital targets, rather than group per share remains the measure chosen for long-term group adjusted earnings per share, and individual business performance incentivesbecause: targets are set at the beginning of each three-year cycle by reference to the specific business for which each executive is directly t it reects the groups objective of sustained long-term responsible.
The level of long-term share awards for divisional earnings growth: executives therefore depends on the level of performance achieved t it is a measure which is well understood both by participants in each business.
and shareholders: Shareholding requirement t it is a published gure with limited adjustments: and In 2010, at the same time as approving increases to the maximum grant levels under the Share Incentive Plan, the Remuneration t it encompasses the diverse nature of the group.
committee also agreed that those executives who most closely An absolute, rather than a relative measure is used, as the group is influence the sustained long-term growth of the Company should a global business for which UK inflation factors are of limited impact.
be required to demonstrate their commitment to the Company by aligning their personal interests to the success of the group and its Other financial measures have been considered, but found to be shareholders.
Consequently, from 2013 executive directors and all unhelpful or inappropriate.
Measures which require testing against first line reports to the Chief Executive are expected to build and a group of companies, for example, relative TSR, are difficult to use maintain a shareholding in the Company to a value at least equal to given the problem of finding appropriate comparator companies.
In order to achieve this target, executives Cash flow or return measures have been considered, but these are will be required to retain at least 50% of any post-tax shares vesting to some extent already encompassed within the earnings per share each year from 2013, until such time as the appropriate level of measure, are likely to require many adjustments over a three-year shareholding has been reached and then to manage their period, and may reward volatility and thus detract from a direct shareholding in such a way as to continue to meet the requirement.
Other executives participating in the Share Incentive Plan are now Under the current terms of the Share Incentive Plan, the sixth allocation encouraged to build up a beneficial interest in the Company, but are of conditional shares will be made on or after 23 November 2012 for not required to do so.
No further changes are planned at the the new performance period September 2012 to September 2015. present time.
The Remuneration committee has reviewed the performance criteria Pensions and has determined that this allocation should again be measured The Remuneration committee aims to ensure that retirement against an absolute range of 5% to 11% compound annual growth benefits are in line with best practice standards adopted by major in adjusted earnings per share.
In setting long-term targets, the companies in continental Europe and the United Kingdom.
Remuneration committee has taken into account the volatility present in many of the markets in which the group operates, as well The Company provides a final salary, defined benefit arrangement as the scale of investments made in the pursuit of long-term growth.
for executives who were employed before the scheme was closed The Remuneration committee believes that the 5% to 11% compound to new entrants in October 2002.
This scheme is designed to annual growth range remains achievable but stretching over the next provide retirement benefits of around two thirds of final pensionable three-year period.
salary at normal retirement age.
Executives employed after this date benefit from defined contribution arrangements.
Both schemes are When the LTIP arrangements were amended in 2006 and annual HM Revenue & Customs approved.
share allocations were introduced, the new Share Incentive Plan was designed to pay out an average of around 50% of the maximum Following recent governmental changes regarding the taxation of long-term incentive plan opportunity each year over time.
Given the pensions and the potential impact that any proposals would have on results of the LTIP scheme to date, analysts forecasts and the internal high earners, the Company introduced flexible accrual and contribution forecasts for the next few years, the Remuneration committee options to enable executives to mitigate their tax liabilities.
considers that this on target expectation is achievable, and should The executive directors were both members of the defined benefit provide a fair but stretching incentive for executives.
scheme, but opted out of this scheme on 5 April 2006, and since Structure and value of executive directors long-term then have earned benefits in the Employer Financed Retirement Share Incentive Plan Benefit Scheme EFRBS.
The EFRBS is unregistered, but is Award as Adjusted designed to broadly mirror the provisions of the final salary, % of base earnings defined benefit arrangements.
salary per share Maximum 200% 11% Benets Cut in 20% 5% Executive directors are also entitled to the provision of a fully expensed company car, private medical insurance, life assurance, home and mobile telephone costs and the reimbursement of reasonable business expenses.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Governance | Remuneration report 55 Remuneration of non-executive directors The board reviews non-executive directors fees periodically in the light of fees payable in comparable companies and the importance attached to the retention and attraction of high-calibre individuals as non-executive directors.
Fees are paid on a per annum basis and are not varied for the number of days worked.
Non-executive directors receive no other benefits and take no part in any discussion or decision concerning their own fees.
Fees for both the Chairman and other non-executive directors were last increased on 1 December 2010, and will be reviewed again on 1 December 2012.
Directors service contracts It is the Companys policy that all executive directors have rolling contracts with 12 month notice periods and that, with the exception of Galen Weston who retired as a director on 9 December 2011, all non-executive directors have rolling contracts with 6 month notice periods.
The Companys Articles of Association require that all directors retire from office if they have not retired at either of the preceding two annual general meetings.
In any event, at this years AGM, all directors are standing for re-election in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Details of the contracts of service of directors who served during the year ended 15 September 2012 are set out below: Effective date Notice Notice Unexpired Date of of current period from period from portion of appointment contract Company director service contract Charles Sinclair 01.10.08 21.04.09 6 months 6 months Rolling contract George Weston 19.04.99 01.06.05 12 months 12 months Rolling contract John Bason 04.05.99 16.03.99 12 months 12 months Rolling contract Tim Clarke 03.11.04 03.11.04 6 months 6 months Rolling contract Lord Jay 01.11.06 01.11.06 6 months 6 months Rolling contract Javier Ferrn 01.11.06 01.11.06 6 months 6 months Rolling contract Peter Smith 28.02.07 28.02.07 6 months 6 months Rolling contract Emma Adamo 09.12.11 09.12.11 6 months 6 months Rolling contract The Remuneration committee takes the view that the entitlement of the executive directors to 12 months notice of termination of employment is in line with the practice of many comparable companies.
Executive directors service contracts also provide for payment in lieu of notice at the Companys discretion.
The Remuneration committees aim is always to deal fairly with cases of termination whilst taking a robust line in minimising any compensation and ensuring that failure is not rewarded.
The Remuneration committee has given due consideration to the recommendations contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code regarding inclusion of explicit provisions in directors service contracts for compensation commitments in the event of early termination.
The Remuneration committee will continue to keep under review its current practice, which is not to include such provisions in order to enable it to respond appropriately to particular circumstances.
In such situations, the Remuneration committee will consider the appropriate use of mitigation.
Executive directors serving as non-executive directors The Remuneration committee has determined that executive directors serving as non-executive directors of other companies may retain any fees earned.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Governance | Remuneration report 56 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Implementation report for 2011 12 Remuneration committee composition The Remuneration committee currently consists of five non-executive directors.
The members of the committee who held office during the year and at the date of this report are: Charles Sinclair Chairman Tim Clarke Senior Independent Director Lord Jay Javier Ferrn Peter Smith The committee met on five occasions during the year.
Consultants The Remuneration committee has retained Towers Watson to provide independent market information and remuneration advice.
Towers Watson does not provide any other consulting services to the Company.
In addition to Towers Watson, the following people provided material advice or services to the committee during the year: George Weston, Chief Executive Des Pullen, Group HR Director George Weston did not advise in respect of his own remuneration.
The Group HR Director and Towers Watson provided support and liaison throughout the year.
Base salary Executive directors salaries were reviewed on 1 December 2011 in accordance with normal policy.
The salaries of George Weston and John Bason were both increased by around 3.8% in line with average increases for UK executives across the group.
George Westons salary is now 950,000 per annum and John Basons salary is 625,000 per annum.
Executive directors salaries are next subject to review on 1 December 2012.
Annual bonus There will be a payout of 78.3% of salary to executive directors in respect of the financial element of the annual bonus for the 2011 12 financial year.
This reflects the very strong performance of the group when adjusted operating profit was well above expectations, although the working capital performance lowered the potential payout of the financial element of the bonus by around 15.5%.
Following a review of individual performance against specific objectives for the 2011 12 financial year, the Remuneration committee has determined that George Weston will receive 12.65% and John Bason 14.5% of base salary for the personal element of the annual bonus.
These percentage awards both represent good overall performance with major objectives having been achieved.
Long-term incentives For the three-year performance period ended September 2011 the compound annual growth in adjusted earnings per share was 10.46%, resulting in a release of 83.8% of the shares allocated in November 2008.
The Remuneration committee has, however, determined that as a result of the asset impairment charge of 98m in the 2012 financial statements in connection with the Don KRC business, it would be appropriate for them to apply their discretion under the Share Incentive Plan to reduce the vesting proportion from 100% to 97.42%.
Therefore, in November 2012 executive directors will receive 97.42% of the conditional shares allocated in 2009.
As long-term incentives for executives with divisional responsibility are largely measured against adjusted operating profit and working capital targets, set by reference to the business for which each executive is directly responsible, the long-term share awards for these executives depend on the level of performance achieved in each business.
In 2012, 55 senior executives, excluding the executive directors, representing 77.5% of all eligible participants, will receive a release of shares in November.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Governance | Remuneration report 57 Shareholding requirement The requirement for executive directors and all first line reports to the Chief Executive to build up a shareholding in the Company to a value at least equal to their pre-tax base salary will come into force in 2013.
At the date of this report, both George Weston and John Bason are already fully compliant with this requirement.
Directors interests The directors of the Company as at 15 September 2012 had the following interests in the shares of the Company notifiable under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
As at As at 15 September 17 September 2012 2011 Charles Sinclair 15 Associated British Foods plc, ordinary shares of 5 22p 12,760 12,760 George Weston Wittington Investments Limited, ordinary shares of 50p 23,681 2,367 15 Associated British Foods plc, ordinary shares of 5 22p 3,324,369 3,261,340 John Bason 15 Associated British Foods plc, ordinary shares of 5 22p 60,337 55,001 Tim Clarke 15 Associated British Foods plc, ordinary shares of 5 22p 4,000 4,000 Lord Jay 15 Associated British Foods plc, ordinary shares of 5 22p 500 500 Javier Ferrn 15 Associated British Foods plc, ordinary shares of 5 22p 2,400 2,400 Peter Smith 15 Associated British Foods plc, ordinary shares of 5 22p 2,000 2,000 Emma Adamo Wittington Investments Limited, ordinary shares of 50p 1,322 n a 15 Associated British Foods plc, ordinary shares of 5 22p 466,234 n a The interests above remained the same at 6 November 2012.
Pensions The table below shows both the defined benefit pension entitlements from the ABF Scheme and EFRBS where appropriate, of executive directors of Associated British Foods plc who were members of the ABF Scheme during the year ended 15 September 2012.
Pension entitlements and corresponding transfer values increased as follows during the year: Increase Total Value of Value of Value of Increase in accrued accrued Directors net increase accrued accrued Total change in accrued pension net pension at contributions in accrual pension at pension at in value pension of inflation 15.09.12 during period over period 15.09.12 17.09.11 during period 000 pa 000 pa 000 pa 000 000 000 000 000 A B C D E F G H George Weston 33 25 406 20 283 5,105 3,787 1,298 John Bason 23 18 232 20 312 4,493 3,406 1,067 Notes: 1.
Pension accruals A and C are the amounts which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year, or earlier retirement.
The pension values E, F and G are transfer values calculated in accordance with Occupational Pension Schemes Transfer Values Regulations 2008.
The increase in accrued pension net of inflation B uses a CPI based inflation figure as opposed to previous years which were based on RPI.
The value of net increase in pension E represents the incremental value to the director of his pension benefits during the year, resulting from additional service and increases in salary.
It is based on the increase in accrued pension net of inflation B after deducting the directors contribution during the year D. 5.
The change in the transfer value H includes the effect of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company and directors, such as stock market movements.
The directors contributions during the year are excluded from this value.
Both directors opted out of the ABF Scheme on 5 April 2006, and since then have earned benefits in the Employer Financed Retirement Benefit Scheme EFRBS.
The figures shown represent the aggregate of benefits in the ABF Scheme and the EFRBS.
Voluntary contributions paid by directors and resulting benefits are not shown.
Pension benefits include a 50% spouses pension.
Pensions are guaranteed to increase in line with RPI limited each year to 5% 2.5% for benefits accrued post 1 January 2008.
Additional discretionary increases to pensions in payment have been granted in the past.
As in previous years the directors contributions during the period D recognises the amount of salary sacrifice made by the directors in lieu of paying contributions.
Both directors contribute 15% of the scheme-specific salary cap so the amount is the same for both.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Governance | Remuneration report 58 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Benets The taxable value of a fully expensed company car, private medical insurance, life assurance, home and mobile telephone costs and the reimbursement of reasonable business expenses is included in the table of directors remuneration below.
Where benefits are taken in cash they are included in Other benefits.
Benefits which are taxed as Benefits in kind are shown separately.
Summary of directors remuneration The remuneration paid to all directors for the year to 15 September 2012 was as follows: Salary Annual Benefits Other Total 2012 2011 1 or fees bonus in kind benefits benefits total total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Non-executive directors Charles Sinclair 333 333 327 Tim Clarke 72 72 70 Lord Jay 60 60 58 Javier Ferrn 60 60 58 Peter Smith 72 72 70 Emma Adamo 46 46 Galen Weston nil Executive directors George Weston 918 864 1 13 14 1,796 1,337 John Bason 597 580 3 13 16 1,193 884 1 Bonus will be paid in December 2012 for the financial year 2011 12.
Executive directors serving as non-executive directors During the year, George Weston served as a non-executive director of Wittington Investments Limited for which he received no compensation.
John Bason is a non-executive director and chairman of the Audit committee of Compass Group PLC, for which he received a total fee of 103,000 in the 2011 12 financial year.
He also served as a trustee of Voluntary Service Overseas and as deputy chairman of the charity FareShare, but received no compensation in respect of either of these roles.
Compliance statement This report sets out the policy and disclosures on directors remuneration as required by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 issued under the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
In accordance with the Act, a resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting of the Company.
The vote will have advisory status in respect of the remuneration policy and overall remuneration packages and will not be specific to individual levels of remuneration.
KPMG Audit Plc has audited the report to the extent required by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, being the sections in the Implementation report for 2011 12 above entitled Directors interests, Long-term incentives, Pensions and Summary of directors remuneration.
By order of the board Paul Lister Company Secretary 6 November 2012 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012
