Corporate governance report Board composition Dr Schoolenberg joined the Board on Mr Whiteley leads the Board as Chairman.
1st August 2012 as an independent He also chairs the Nomination Committee.
Her broad industrial The Chairmans other signi cant engineering background, pro ciency in new commitments are set out in his biography product development and experience in on page 46.
Europe will bene t the further development of the Groups successful international Board tenure Mr Vernon leads the business as Group business.
Chief Executive and has Board responsibility 0-3 years 3 for the steam specialties business in The Board is supported by Mr Robson, who 3-6 years 2 the Americas.
He also chairs the Risk was appointed on 1st July 2012 as General 6-9 years 3 Management Committee.
9 years 2 Mr Meredith is the Finance Director.
At the Annual General Meeting AGM to be held on 9th May 2013, shareholders Mr Daws is the Executive Director for the will be asked to elect to the Board our new steam specialties business in Asia Paci c Non-Executive Director, Dr Schoolenberg.
and the steam specialties Supply operations All other Directors will offer themselves for in the UK and France.
Mr Anderson is the Executive Director for the Details of the experience of the Directors, steam specialties business in Europe, the biographical information and their roles are Middle East and Africa EMEA.
Mr Whalen is the Executive Director for the Director development Watson-Marlow peristaltic pumps business.
Directors attend formal training seminars to update their knowledge and duties.
The Mr Bullock is an independent Non-Executive Board nationality Board is regularly updated on changes to Director, our Senior Independent Director British 6 relevant laws and regulations.
Non-Executive and Chairman of our Remuneration American 3 Directors are invited to attend Group Committee.
conferences, which provide information on Dutch 1 Dr Rajagopal is an independent new product development and sales and Non-Executive Director.
Business presentations are given at Board meetings to enable Dr Schoolenberg is an independent a review of new product development, Non-Executive Director.
regional operations, business strategies and Mr Watson is an independent employee development.
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of our An induction pack is provided to new Audit Committee.
appointees to the Board and induction Mr Anderson and Mr Whalen joined the procedures include site visits, brie ngs by Board on 15th March 2012 as Executive senior managers and meetings with major Directors.
In 2012 Mr Daws attended the Advanced Management Programme at Harvard Business School.
Board attendance Details of the number of Board and Committees Meetings, and individual attendance by Director for 2012, are set out in the table below.
Board attendance Audit Nomination Remuneration Risk Management Board member Board Committee Committee Committee Committee 7343 Number of meetings 2 1 7 N A 3 N A W. H. Whiteley N A 7 N A 4 N A M. E. Vernon 2 7 N A N A N A D. J. Meredith 2 2 N. H. Daws 6 N A N A N A 2 3 5 N A N A N A N. J. Anderson 2 3 5 N A N A N A J. L. Whalen 2 1 7333 G. R. Bullock N A 7343 K. Rajagopal N A 4 3111 G. E. Schoolenberg N A 1 7333 C. G. Watson N A 1 Absence due to Nomination Committee considering Directors re-appointment.
2 Absence due to attendance at the Advanced Management Programme at Harvard Business School.
3 Appointed to Board on 15th March 2012 and member of Risk Management Committee prior to that date.
4 Appointed to Board on 1st August 2012.
48 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Ov Ove er rv vi ie ew w St Strategy rategy and and p per erf for ormance mance Sust Sustainabili ainabilit ty y Go Gov five er rn finance ance 49 49 Approach to governance Board focus during 2012 Governance helps us to: Ensure our shareholders receive a good return on their investment Operations and risk 40% Behave with integrity as colleagues, making Strategy 20% sure that each feels valued, motivated and Governance and 20% rewarded shareholders Treat our customers, suppliers and local Finance 10% communities properly People and succession 5% Respect the environment.
New product development 5% Board activities in 2012 We aim to embed governance practices throughout the Group so that they become an integral part of running a successful business.
In the adjacent diagram we have given examples of the Boards focus during The Group operates a predominantly direct independence and knowledge to enable it 2012.
The Board agendas are linked to the sales business model, a strategy that has to discharge its duties and responsibilities fundamentals of a trusted brand, a clear been at the heart of the Groups success effectively and that expanding its size by strategic plan, strong leadership, motivated over many years.
The need for a direct the appointment of another Non-Executive employees and satis ed customers, presence in every market of any size leads Director, simply to meet the balance criteria, together with the necessary checks and to a trading structure with many relatively will have the effect of the Board becoming balances.
We focus on long-term plans for small operations the Group currently has unwieldy.
Nevertheless, the Board our businesses, the issues that matter on over 50 operating companies in 36 countries recognises that this is an important matter to the ground, and what our management and and operates in more than 100 countries.
shareholders, and will ensure it is subject to people are doing day-to-day.
The Board Our business philosophy is to empower the continuous review.
spends 40% of its time ensuring the Groups General Managers of our local companies to operations and risk management controls The Group has an excellent track record in maximise the opportunities in each market, are effective.
During 2012 the Board also delivering sustained growth in shareholder whilst ensuring there is appropriate oversight, regularly reviewed the Groups performance value and 1,000 invested in January 2003 control and integration.
and satis ed itself that, despite dif cult produced a total shareholder return, as at trading conditions, management was on Effective Board oversight and control of 31st December 2012, of 7,488 649%.
In track in delivering the strategic business this necessarily at organisation structure the latest five-year period, total shareholder plan.
In addition, the Board concentrated its with many small components is, we believe, return has increased by 201% and the share efforts on product development and ensuring best achieved by having knowledgeable price has risen from under 9 to over 22 the Group was bene ting from its supply Executive Directors on the Board providing at the end of 2012, all underpinned by the consolidation initiatives.
The Board also direct first-hand operational input to the Groups good governance practices over regarded engagement with shareholders Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
on governance, remuneration and trading The three Executive Directors, in addition to The external review of Board effectiveness as a signi cant issue and was appraised of the Group Chief Executive and the Finance conducted recently by Dr Long, and progress on a regular basis.
Director, are responsible for the EMEA described in more detail on page 51, and the Asia Paci c Supply divisions for Compliance with the Code concluded that the Board functions the steam specialties business, and for the The governance rules which apply to the effectively and that its decision-making Watson-Marlow peristaltic pumps business.
G roup for 2012 are found in the Code.
It is also important to They have detailed knowledge of their Meeting the requirements of the Code is point out that including the Non-Executive respective divisions and their presence achieved through the application of the Chairman who was independent on on the Board enables the Chairman and principle comply or explain.
It is expressly appointment balances the Board and the independent Non-Executive Directors to stated in the Code that the Code is not a Non-Executive Chairman has a casting vote have regular access to the operations of the rigid set of rules and that an alternative to in the event of a deadlock.
Executive Directors also gain valuable following a provision is justi ed, in particular detailed explanation the Board considers experience of wider business issues across circumstances, if good governance can that the Group satis es the requirements of different divisions, regions and functional be achieved by other means.
The Groups the Code to comply or explain.
areas, which we believe enhances the compliance in 2012 with each provision of the Groups succession planning process.
Having The Board is committed to the changes to Code is set out in the table on pages 75 to 79. a number of Executive Directors on the Board the Code in relation to board diversity.
The manages the risk of over-reliance on limited The table shows that the Group complied Board has set measurable objectives and Executive Director opinion.
with every Code provision except the will monitor progress on diversity.
Diversity balance of the Board between Executive and is discussed in more detail in the Nomination The Board has a well-balanced blend Non-Executive Directors Code provision Committees Report on page 54. of experienced, independently-minded B.
There are currently five Executive Non-Executive Directors who provide robust and four independent Non-Executive challenge.
The practical conduct of Board Directors, excluding the Non-Executive meetings is such that, even though there are Chairman.
The Board is pleased to take this five Executive Directors and four independent opportunity to thoroughly explain its reasons Non-Executive Directors excluding the for this structure and, in doing so, meets Non-Executive Chairman, the views of the the requirements of the Code to comply or Non-Executive Directors are given due weight explain.
The Board also wishes to explain and a collective approach to decision-making why the composition of the Board is is adopted.
The Board considers that it has justi ed in the circumstances and how good the appropriate balance of skills, experience, governance is still achieved.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 49 Corporate governance report continued Governance structure Our governance structure is best illustrated by the diagram set out below.
Audit Committee Nomination Clive Watson Committee Bill Whiteley Group Board Bill Whiteley Remuneration Risk Management Committee Committee Gareth Bullock Mark Vernon Chairmans responsibilities Group Chief Executives responsibilities Managing the business of the Board and facilitating the Managing the Groups business and the effective stewardship participation of each Director of capital, technical and human resources including senior management succession planning Safeguarding robust Corporate Governance processes and the development and maintenance of governance policies Ensuring appropriate internal controls for risk management Facilitating constructive debate and discussion on Board agenda Developing and recommending corporate and business strategy items and ensuring that alternative viewpoints are considered for Board approval Maintaining appropriate contact, in conjunction with the Group Maintaining direct contact with shareholders and dealing with Chief Executive, with shareholders and in stock market related stock market related matters matters Providing leadership to the Groups most senior executives in Providing for regular evaluation and feedback of the performance their management of functional activities of each Director and the Board Recommending to the Board major changes in the organisational Ensuring effective succession planning for Directors structure of the Group Interfacing with regulatory bodies which may require access to Ensuring that the Group complies with all appropriate legislation the Chairman Directing the Groups internal and external communications Working successfully with the Group Chief Executive to ensure Performance of the Group in meeting its short, medium and performance objectives are achieved long-term objectives 50 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategy and performance Sustainability Governance 51 The Board has a con icts of interest policy Governance structure Board effectiveness and has put in place procedures for the The Board Committees and functions are In 2012, we commissioned an independently disclosure and review of any potential or listed below along with an overview of their facilitated Board effectiveness review actual con icts.
activities and the main person responsible.
conducted by Dr Long of Boardroom Review The terms of reference for the Committees Limited.
Dr Long does not have any other Committee composition are published on the Groups website, connection with the Group.
Our aim was The Non-Executive Directors play an www.
to capture open and constructive feedback important governance role in the detailed from Board members which would: Group Board work they carry out on our Committees on Mr Whiteley behalf of the Board.
All the Non-Executive Provide insight into our effectiveness The Board relies on Executive management Directors are determined by the Board to Point to actions for improving our to run the business, monitors management be independent in character and judgement, performance activities and holds them accountable in compliance with the Code.
The Board Establish a benchmark for measuring The General Counsel and Company also approves long-term corporate and future progress.
Secretary supports the Committee Chairmen strategic plans after a full review and in making sure members are equipped for In accordance with the provisions of the assessment of market and technology informed decision-making and that they Code, we did not have to carry out the trends, business drivers and risks.
Having a allocate their time to the right subjects.
However, senior management team that is capable of based on the positive feedback from the executing the strategic plans is a key focus.
The Board has satis ed itself that at least Board and the fact that we had three new one member of the Audit Committee, The formal schedule of matters Directors join during the year, we decided to namely Mr Watson, has recent and relevant reserved for the Boards decision proceed earlier.
financial experience and is con dent that the is available on the Groups website, collective experience of its members enables The review was carried out in accordance www.
The Audit Committee also with the guidance in the Code.
Our has access to the financial expertise of the Key matters include: approach involved a Board observation, Group, the external and internal auditors and one-to-one interviews with all Directors, The approval of corporate and strategic can seek further professional advice at the individual feedback meetings and a Board business plans Companys expense, if required.
Each participant was asked to The approval of the annual and interim evaluate the Board and its Committees.
The Board has delegated speci c results Subjects covered included the work of responsibility to the four Board Committees, the Board, the Board environment and being the Audit Committee, the Nomination Interim management statements the Boards use of time.
Directors were Committee, the Risk Management Committee asked for their views on our shareholder Acquisitions and the Remuneration Committee.
engagement and relationships and how Major capital expenditure Audit Committee these relationships might be improved.
Mr Watson Views were sought on the Boards input Director appointments Monitors the integrity of the financial into strategy discussions, governance Major litigation.
statements and reviews the effectiveness and compliance, risk management and of internal controls and external audit.
Views were also The Non-Executive Directors provide sought on the Board culture and the independent challenge and review, bringing Nomination Committee relationships with senior management wide experience, speci c expertise and a Mr Whiteley as well as how new Board members are fresh, objective perspective.
Recommends Board appointments and selected and inducted.
The Board meets as often as is necessary The review was based on a careful analysis to discharge its duties.
In 2012 the Board Risk Management Committee of the Boards approach to its work, its met seven times.
All Directors are expected Mr Vernon contribution to the Groups success, and its to attend all Board meetings and relevant Ensures that risk management is preparation for the future.
Committee meetings unless prevented by meaningful, relevant and focused on prior commitments, illness or a con ict of improving the business.
Dr Long commended the Board for its many interest.
Directors unable to attend speci c strengths including its culture, chairmanship, Remuneration Committee Board or Committee meetings are sent clarity of strategy and shareholder Mr Bullock the relevant papers and asked to provide communication.
Recommends remuneration strategy and comments in advance of the meetings to framework to attract, retain and reward senior During 2013, the Board plans to continue to: the Chairman of the Board or Committee, executives, determines annual Executive as appropriate.
In addition, all Board and Review the strategic planning cycle Director remuneration and approves awards Committee members receive copies of the under the Groups Performance Share Plan.
Drive the agenda on succession planning minutes of meetings as a matter of course.
and development of senior managers Further information on each of the The Directors attendance record at Board Committees activities during the 12 month Be actively engaged on diversity and Committee meetings is set out on page period to 31st December 2012 is set out in 48.
The Non-Executive Directors meet Increase the awareness of Group best pages 52 to 74. without the Executive Directors present to practice, particularly with regard to risk discuss the Executive Directors performance management and other matters.
The Senior Independent Director, Mr Bullock, is available to discuss Formalise Committee feedback to concerns with shareholders, in addition to the Board the normal channels of the Chairman, Group Review the schedule of Board and Chief Executive or the Finance Director.
Committee meetings across the year.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51 Corporate governance report continued The Committee met three times in 2012.
Audit Committee Both the internal and external auditors attend its meetings and have direct access to its Chairman.
Signi cant areas of review by the Committee in the year included principal risks, including provisions, current and deferred taxation, and the valuation of accounts receivables and inventories: reviews of signi cant control matters as they arose: and key judgement areas in the financial statements, including pensions, provisions and acquisitions.
Clive Watson The Committee reviews the effectiveness Chairman of internal audit, tracks their findings and the responsiveness of management to any issues identi ed.
As a safeguard, at each meeting the Committee holds separate meetings with Role of the Committee the external and internal auditors, without The key responsibility of the Committee is to review the effectiveness of the Companys management present, to discuss their financial reporting and controls.
Accordingly the Committee is authorised by the Board to: respective areas and any issues arising from their audits.
Monitor and review the integrity and the audit of the Companys financial results statements During the year the Committee received reports from external and internal auditors Oversee the Companys relationship with its external auditor including reviewing on the major findings of their work and their independence progress of management follow up.
We Agree the fees and terms of appointment of the external auditor including quality received assurance on going concern, and effectiveness.
counterparty risks, pension valuation and risk management.
Consider the output of the procedures used to manage risk within the Company Auditor Review the Companys internal controls The effectiveness of our external auditor is vital in underpinning the Groups internal Consider the management letter from the external auditor on its review of the controls and the integrity of our systems, effectiveness of internal controls and to enable us to recommend the Agree the work plan of internal audit and review the resulting output from that plan re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc.
The Committee judges them on the quality of Review signi cant finance and tax matters.
their audit findings, managements response and stakeholder feedback.
We check their How the Committee spent its time independence by making sure they are during the year suf ciently challenging in their work.
We also set the audit and non-audit fees and ensure Results review 25% that our auditor engagement policy is adhered External audit 20% to when commissioning non-audit work.
Internal audit 20% Although KPMG Audit Plc has been in Finance and tax reviews 20% place since the 1950s, periodic changes Risk management 15% to audit partners are made at a Group and and controls country level in accordance with the relevant professional and regulatory standards in order to protect independence and objectivity and Membership and attendance provide fresh challenge to the business.
Such changes are planned carefully to ensure that Committee member Attendance the Group bene ts from continuity of staf ng Number of meetings 3 without incurring undue risk or inef ciency.
C. G. Watson 3 G. R. Bullock 3 K. Rajagopal 3 1 G. E. Schoolenberg 1 1 Appointed 1st August 2012.
52 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategy and performance Sustainability Governance 53 Financial reporting To assess the effectiveness of the auditor the Through discussion with management Committee reviewed: an d the external auditor, the Committee The external auditors ful lment of the determined that the key judgements with risk agreed audit plan and variations from it of misstatement of the Companys financial statements related to provisions, current The auditors report of major issues arising and deferred taxation, and the valuation of during the course of the audit accounts receivables and inventories.
The results of the annual survey completed These issues were discussed with by local management teams of the service management during 2012 and with the auditor levels provided by the external auditor.
when reviewing and agreeing the audit plan The Committee is satis ed with the auditors and also at the conclusion of the audit of the effectiveness and independence, and financial statements.
the degree of diligence and professional After reviewing the presentations and reports scepticism brought to bear.
As such, the from management and consulting with the Committee has not considered it necessary auditor, the Committee is satis ed that the during 2012 to conduct a tender process financial statements appropriately address for the appointment of its auditor.
Having the critical judgements and key estimates, carried out the review described above, and both in respect of the amounts reported having satis ed itself that the external auditor and the disclosures.
The Committee is also remains independent and effective, the satis ed that the signi cant assumptions Committee has recommended to the Board used for determining the value of assets and that the auditor be re-appointed for 2013. liabilities have been appropriately scrutinised, The Committee has noted the revisions to challenged and are suf ciently robust.
the UK Corporate Governance Code Review of financial statements introduced by the Financial Reporting Over the course of 2012 the Committee Council FRC in September 2012 and, considered many components of business in particular, the recommendation to put the performance in order to ensure it has a full external audit out to tender at least every ten understanding of the operations of the Group.
The FRC has proposed non-binding suggested transitional arrangements with Examples of processes the Committee respect to audit tendering, including a uses include: suggestion that tendering should normally t the five yearly cycle of partner rotation.
Reviews of the processes undertaken in The Committee will take this guidance into determining the position adopted in key account when considering these tendering judgement areas including pensions, arrangements, which will continue to focus provisions and acquisitions on the effectiveness and independence of Risk areas as described above the auditor.
Receipt of regular strategy reports from The Committee, with the approval of the the Group Chief Executive and operational Board, has put in place policies that restrict reports from the Divisional Directors the types and the amount of non-audit work that can be carried out by the external auditor.
Requesting members of management to The Committee is provided with a report of attend Committee meetings to provide all non-audit work carried out by the external updates on operational and strategic auditor and a full breakdown of fees related matters to non-audit work.
A summary of the fees is Reviews of the budget and contained in note 6 on page 97.
restrictions and reporting requirements allow the Committee to ensure that auditor Through these processes and its monitoring objectivity and independence is maintained.
of the effectiveness of controls, internal audit and risk management, the Committee is able In accordance with the International Standard to maintain a good understanding of business on Auditing UK and Ireland 260 and the performance, key areas of judgement and Ethical Statement issued by the Accounting decision-making processes within the Practices Board, the external auditor has organisation.
con rmed, in writing to the Directors, its independence as auditor of the Company.
As is normal practice, the Committee carried out a thorough review in preparation for the Groups interim and preliminary financial results.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 53 Corporate governance report continued A great deal of time and effort was put into nding our new Non-Executive Director, Nomination Committee Dr Schoolenberg, in 2012.
We worked with our external consultants, Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann, fide ning our needs and reviewing prospective candidates.
Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann do not have any other connection with the Company.
We managed a thorough, orderly search and interviewed rigorously.
The appointment of Dr Schoolenberg was recommended to the Board.
We also recommended the appointment of Mr Anderson and Mr Whalen as Executive Bill Whiteley Directors.
Mr Whalen was appointed internally Chairman whilst Egon Zehnder International assisted with the search for an additional Executive Director which resulted in Mr Anderson being selected.
Egon Zehnder International do not have any Role of the Committee other connection with the Company.
The primary responsibilities of the Committee are to make appropriate recommendations We have given increased focus to leadership to the Board for the appointment, re-appointment or replacement of Directors, to keep development through robust succession under review the structure and composition of the Board, to recommend any proposed planning and have strengthened our changes to the Board and to consider succession planning arrangements for Directors.
We seek to ensure that we have a high performing In making recommendations for appointments to the Board, the Committee has regard workforce and that we better identify to the overall balance of the skills, knowledge and experience of Board members against tomorrows leaders.
Those individuals the current and perceived future requirements of the Group and to the bene ts of demonstrating high potential are included in our diversity, including gender.
senior management development plan, which is an important part of our overall leadership succession planning.
How the Committee spent its time during the year Career plans for those individuals are reviewed Succession planning 50% regularly and the Executive Directors meet frequently to review organisational staf ng Recruitment 20% requirements against career planning of Diversity 20% high-potential leaders.
Board and Committee In relation to diversity, the Group seeks to have composition 10% Directors who, in addition to relevant technical and commercial expertise, meet the highest standards of judgement, critical-thinking and openness.
We believe that the Boards perspective and approach is greatly enhanced Membership and attendance through gender, age and cultural diversity and it Committee member Attendance is our policy to consider overall Board balance and diversity when appointing new Directors.
Number of meetings 4 The diagram on page 48 illustrates the diverse 1 W. H. Whiteley 3 range and nationalities of our Board which is M. E. Vernon 4 particularly relevant given the broad international 1 reach of the Group.
On gender, we appointed G. R. Bullock 3 Dr Schoolenberg as a Non-Executive Director K. Rajagopal 4 during 2012 and, subject to appointing Directors 2 G. E. Schoolenberg 1 of the highest calibre and relevant expertise, 1 we plan to increase female representation on C. G. Watson 3 the Board when vacancies arise.
Our aim on 1 Absence due to Nomination Committee considering Directors re-appointment.
Board diversity is to have 25% female directors 2 Appointed 1st August 2012. by 2016.
However, all appointments will continue to be made on merit.
To achieve this target we will ensure that female candidates are considered routinely as part of the recruitment process.
We will also encourage the progress of females in senior positions throughout the Group.
We are pleased to report that we do have a number of females in senior positions including the Europe and Middle East Sales and Marketing Director of Watson-Marlow Pumps, the Chief Financial Of cer and Chairman of Watson-Marlow Ltd and a Regional General Manager in the Spirax Sarco EMEA Division.
We are also constantly improving the intake of female professionals from universities to ensure an improved talent pipeline for senior leadership roles in the future.
54 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategy and performance Sustainability Governance Risk management and principal risks 55 Our approach and appetite for risk Risk Management Committee Our aim is to build a sustainable business through consistent, pro table growth and to ensure that our customers and shareholders trust us.
We recognise that creating shareholder value is the reward for taking acceptable risks.
The effective understanding, acceptance and management of risk is fundamental to the long-term success of the Group.
Our approach is encapsulated in the principles of our risk management policy: Mark Vernon To understand the nature and extent of Chairman risks facing the Group To accept and manage within the business those risks which our employees have Role of the Committee the skills and expertise to understand and leverage The Committee ensures that the Group has operating policies and procedures covering everything from financial planning and reporting, capital expenditure, project governance To assess and transfer or avoid those risks and information security to business continuity, employee performance management which are beyond our appetite for risk and how we do business.
Detailed policies and procedures are in place to ensure the By consideration of materiality, to establish accuracy and reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated the authority levels within the Group financial statements.
The Committee is responsible for risk management, compliance at which decisions on acceptance and and regulation.
mitigation of these risks are taken.
The risk review process We have adopted an integrated approach How the Committee spent its time to our risk management, independent during the year assurance and internal controls to ensure Internal controls 25% greater linkage across our review and Group policies 20% assessment of risk.
Internal controls and Risk management framework 20% risk management are designed to limit the chance of failure to achieve corporate Anti-bribery 15% objectives.
Independent assurance is Competition compliance 10% provided by the external auditor and Business continuity 10% internal audit.
The Committee has accountability for overseeing the risk management processes Membership and attendance and procedures, and reports to the Board Committee member Attendance on the principal risks facing the Group.
The Committee also monitors the mitigating Number of meetings 2 actions put in place by the relevant divisions M. E. Vernon 2 and Group companies to address the D. J. Meredith 2 identi ed risks.
N. H. Daws 2 The Group Chief Executive, Mr Vernon, 1 N. J. Anderson 2 chairs the Committee.
The members of the 1 Committee are set out in the adjacent table.
J. L. Whalen 2 1 External consultants are involved in the Appointed to the Board on 15th March 2012 and member of Risk Management Committee prior to that date.
review every three years, with the last review taking place in 2011.
Each operating company is required, at a local level, to undertake a formal review of the risks which impact on its business at least twice a year.
The reviews are consolidated into Group-wide risk reports The following executives are also members of the Risk Management which are maintained and reviewed by Committee: Group Human Resources Director, Group Business Development the Risk Management Committee on a Director, Group Information Systems Director, Divisional Director Americas regular basis.
and the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
The result is that the Group has in place a robust risk management process to identify, evaluate and manage the principal risks that could impact on the Groups performance.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 55 Risk management and principal risks continued The principal risks and the product of the As required by the UK Listing Authority, the Internal audit 2012 review are set out on pages 58 Group has complied throughout the year and The Board has an established internal audit and 59. up to the date of the Annual Report with the function which allows each of the Group Code provisions on internal controls.
operating companies to be audited at least Internal controls every three years and those judged to be in The Board has overall responsibility for All operating companies are required annually higher risk territories will be audited more the system of internal controls and for to complete self-certi cation questionnaires frequently.
All businesses acquired by the reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the role of regarding compliance with the policies, Group are subject to internal audit within one management is to implement Board policies procedures and minimum requirements for year from the date of acquisition.
Internal audit on risk and control.
There is an ongoing an effective system of internal controls.
resource is supplemented by experienced, review process for identifying and managing quali ed accounting staff from principal Group Self-certi cation is given by both the risks faced by the Group which has been operating companies and a professional General Manager and the Finance Manager in place for 2012 and up to the date of auditing rm, BDO International.
Reports are of each operation.
approval of the Annual Report.
The review made to the Audit Committee and the Board covers and assesses the effectiveness of as a whole.
Whilst there were some areas for all material controls, including financial, local improvement identi ed in the internal operational and compliance controls and audit reports, no signi cant matters were risk management systems.
This ensures raised in the reports made in the operating that proper accounting records have been companies audited during the year.
maintained, that financial information used As explained by the Chairman, in his within the business is reliable and that the consolidated accounts preparation and introduction to Governance on pages 44 and financial reporting process comply with all 45, we have built on our strong anti-corruption relevant regulatory reporting requirements.
culture and our Anti-Bribery and Corruption The system of internal controls is designed Policy by introducing new speci c policies to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of and a comprehensive training programme failure to achieve the business objectives.
The programme has been trialled and introduced in operating The Board believes from its annual reviews companies with the roll-out nearly completed that the system of internal controls is at the date of the Annual Report.
At the end of embedded in the business and regular the roll-out, approximately 2,400 employees review allows for assessment of new and will have taken part.
changing risks in the Groups business.
The Committee has ensured compliance with In pursuing these objectives, internal centrally documented control procedures controls can provide only reasonable and on such matters as capital expenditure, not absolute assurance against material information and technology security and misstatement or loss.
We also introduced a new Competition Policy to ensure the Group conducts its business in accordance with the competition laws of all the countries in which it operates.
Risk management structure Board Operating Group-wide Identify risks Mitigating actions companies risk report Review Risk Management Committee 56 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategy and performance Sustainability Governance Changing new 57 Important developments in the year The Committee then mapped the risks Our risk management approach is subject in the Group-wide risk reports to these to continuous review and updating to take categories, which is set out in the risk radar account of new and developing issues which diagram below.
This analysis informed the might impact our business objectives.
The determination of the principal risks set out on following actions have been undertaken pages 58 and 59. during the year to address signi cant developments: Introduction of new speci c Anti-Bribery and Corruption policies and anti-bribery@work programme All the Group-wide risk reports have been updated We have managed the financial pressures on our home markets by continuing to grow our presence in emerging markets The diverse range of economic, geopolitical and accidental external global events has prompted a review and updating of disaster management and business continuity planning across the Group We have reviewed and improved our global insurance cover with particular emphasis on lower deductibles and higher cover levels for our growing international businesses.
To achieve an overview of the risks facing the business as set out in the Group-wide risk reports, the Committee categorised the risks as follows: External to our business Core to our day-to-day operation Related to business change activity Those that could emerge in the future.
Mapping of risks to risk reports External Core external risk Emerging areas Acquisitions Economic Exchange rate and political Regulatory movements Competitors instability requirements Loss of New product Product Health manufacturing developments failure & safety output Market Customer share needs IT security IP rights Core operations Business change Internal Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 57 Stable known Risk management and principal risks continued Principal risks A summary of the principal risks, their likely impact and an explanation of how the Group mitigates each risk is set out in the table below.
The direction of change in particular risks during the year is explained in the Principal Risk column and illustrated by the arrow in the Change column.
Finally, we have also set out the relevance of the risk to our strategy.
Please note that the Change column shows the change in the risk and not the mitigation of the risk.
Principal risk Change Impact Mitigation Relevance to strategy Economic and political Fluctuations in pro t Compliance with Group Broaden instability: from signi cant Treasury Policy our global The Group operates worldwide.
currency movements Strong internal controls presence Economic and political instability Reduced pro t due to with internal audit and appropriate creates risks for our locally based impact on customers insurance direct operations.
The Group from economic Resilient business model has reviewed country, credit, problems as explained in the Business liquidity and currency risks and, Potential Review on page 17. in particular, those arising from redenomination Well spread business European debt issues.
of local currency, approximately 10% of Group devaluation and sales originate in the higher risk The risk has increased as a high in ation.
countries of Greece, Ireland, Italy, result of the deterioration in some Portugal and Spain.
Sales in European economies and the Greece are immaterial.
Breach of regulatory Fines and regulatory Robust internal controls, policies Create strong requirements: action and resultant and procedures and Group market The Group operates in a large reduced pro t Management Code positions number of countries across the Damage to reputation Establish strong ethical culture world and is subject to many Diversion of supported by communication different laws and regulations, management time.
and training including the UK Bribery Act, Review of commercial the US Foreign and Corrupt arrangements and regulatory Practices Act, health and safety, requirements with appropriate competition laws and local quality professional advice regulations.
Breaching these laws Maintain local quality and regulations could have serious accreditations.
This risk has increased in the year as sales in Asia Paci c have risen.
Non-compliance with health, Damage to reputation Compliance with legislation and Create strong safety and environmental Reduced pro t due to codes of best practice market legislation: fines, compensation Regular audits, checks and positions The Group places great and clean-up costs reporting to management and emphasis on health, safety and Enforcement action by the Board on health, safety and environmental issues in relation regulatory authorities.
environmental issues to our employees and operations, Ongoing training and those of our customers, In the course of appointing a suppliers and communities so as Senior Group Health and Safety to avoid the risk of major health, Manager.
Failure to respond to Failure to achieve Maintain market knowledge Generate technological developments or expected return on the and monitor competitor consistent customer needs: R&D investment developments, making organic The Group has signi cantly Reduced pro t effective use of our direct eld growth increased R&D resources and Loss of market share sales force Deliver risks, this being ineffective if we Loss of intellectual Maintain investment in R&D solutions fail to respond to development property.
programmes to reduce and customer needs or if we fail to Maintain appropriate intellectual energy usage manage and protect our intellectual property registrations, property.
taking enforcement action where appropriate.
58 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategy and performance Sustainability Governance 59 There may be other risks and uncertainties which are unknown to the Group or which could become material in the future.
These risks may cause the Groups results to vary materially from historic and expected results.
Principal risk Change Impact Mitigation Relevance to strategy Risk of product failure: Damage to customer Products designed and tested to Create strong The Group provides a wide range relationships international standards and strict market of products into many different Reduced pro t due quality procedures positions plants and industries many of to increased costs Training of sales installation staff Deliver which are in critical parts of to correct the Appropriate conditions of sale and solutions our customers processes.
problems caused at contractual restrictions to reduce A risk exists that products are customers plants on liability energy usage wrongly speci ed or installed, fail, Litigation following Insurance cover.
or contain design or manufacturing product liability claim.
This risk has increased during the year as a result of the Group providing more fully integrated solutions.
Loss of manufacturing output at Reduced sales and Group manufacturing strategy to Broaden any Group factory: pro t due to inability to regionalise manufacturing base our global The Group manufactures most meet customer orders and increase resilience presence of the products we sell in eight Loss of market share Business continuity planning and main factory units which supply Damage to reputation.
disaster recovery plans our sales operations worldwide.
Stocks of components Loss of manufacturing output at and nished products in any important plant risks serious sales companies disruption to sales operations.
Regular and comprehensive backups of IT systems This risk has reduced in the Use of insurance audits year due to the realisation of the inspections and business Groups manufacturing strategy interruption insurance.
of regionalising the manufacturing base.
fide ned bene t pension fide cit: Increase in liabilities Use of independent fide ned bene t pension schemes Increase in pension professional advisers and carry risks in relation to investment costs and cash custodians for fide ned bene t performance, security of assets, contributions pension schemes longevity and in ation.
Total Fluctuations in Pension scheme fide-risking fide ned bene t pension liabilities pension fund asset strategy to automatically reduce represent approximately 52% of and liability values.
equity exposure and increase total Group assets.
matching assets at pre-agreed trigger points.
This risk has reduced in the year as a result of the operation of the Mercer Dynamic fide-Risking Solution.
Failure to realise acquisition Failure to achieve Evaluation of potential targets Grow market objectives: expected return on against Strategic Plan and share The Groups strategy is focused investment acquisition criteria Deliver on organic growth complemented Assumption of Project management disciplines solutions by acquisitions as explained in the unexpected liabilities.
Appropriate due diligence by to reduce Business Review on page 17.
We Group personnel and external energy usage risk failing to achieve the expected advisers covering commercial, return on investment if acquisitions legal, accounting and are not properly identi ed, environmental issues.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 59 Remuneration report 1.
Introductory letter Remuneration Committee We remain committed to maintaining a strong link between the Companys performance, the creation of long-term shareholder value and the level of remuneration received by the Executive Directors.
As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to present to you our Remuneration Report in respect of the financial year ended 31st December 2012.
As a Committee, we are acutely aware Gareth Bullock of the ongoing debate taking place with Chairman respect to executive pay.
We support the UK Governments plans to simplify disclosure and improve the clarity of explanations on how executive remuneration is linked to Role of the Committee Company performance and shareholder The main responsibility of the Committee is to set executive remuneration policies interests.
To that end, we have sought covering salary and bene ts, performance-based variable reward, pensions and the to adopt many aspects of the draft UK terms of service agreements.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to: Government guidelines in our Remuneration Report in 2012, while also complying with Determine the speci c remuneration packages for the Group Chief Executive and the the requirements of the Large and MediumExecutive Directors sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Set targets for the Companys performance-based variable reward schemes and Reports Regulations 2008. determine achievement against those targets, exercising discretion as appropriate In this Remuneration Report we set out where provided by scheme rules details of our pay policy along with how it Monitor and advise the Board on any major changes in employee bene t structures was implemented in 2012.
However, I would throughout the Group rstly like to take this opportunity to explain the main activities of the Committee in 2012, Appoint and seek advice from appropriate consultants in respect of Executive Director and summarise the context within which our remuneration.
3, 3.1 to 3.6, 4.1 and 4.2 of this Remuneration Business performance Report have been subject to audit.
As reported in the Chairmans Statement on page 4 of this Annual Report, the Company made further progress during 2012 and How the Committee spent its time achieved another year of record sales, pro t during the year and cash generation.
The total dividend for Pay policy 20% the year increased by 8%, extending our Executive pay 20% dividend record to 45 years.
Directors contracts 20% Our remuneration policy is designed to Bonus target setting 10% ensure that a signi cant percentage of Bonus achievement 10% senior management pay is based on the PSP target setting 10% achievement of demanding performance targets and is therefore at risk.
The maximum PSP achievement 10% pay out in the annual bonus plan and longterm incentive scheme is only available as a result of signi cant outperformance by Membership and attendance the business.
Although we achieved good Committee member Attendance results in 2012, overall macro-economic conditions were dif cult and some of the more Number of meetings 3 demanding performance targets established G. R. Bullock 3 in the annual bonus plan and Performance K. Rajagopal 3 Share Plan PSP were not fully met.
1 G. E. Schoolenberg 1 This Remuneration Report for 2012 illustrates C. G. Watson 3 clearly the linkage between business performance and pay.
The Committee is satis ed that there is strong alignment between Company performance and remuneration of the Executive Directors.
60 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategy and performance Sustainability Governance 61 The Annual Bonus Plan, PSP and Appointment of new Executive Directors 2.
Our remuneration policy Employee Share Ownership Plan to the Board Our strategy is to enhance value to ESOP Incentive Plans reward financial In March 2012 the Board appointed shareholders through consistent growth in performance, both absolute and relative, Mr Anderson and Mr Whalen as Executive earnings and dividends per share.
to ensure that there is clear and Directors.
In light of their appointment to demonstrable pay for performance, the Board, the Committee reviewed their The Companys remuneration policy is which we seek to illustrate in the balance remuneration packages on appointment designed to: of the Remuneration Report.
to ensure they were aligned with our Provide a strong alignment between the remuneration policy.
In developing and reviewing the Companys achievement of strategic objectives and the Review of Executive Directors service remuneration policy for Executive Directors delivery of value to shareholders agreements and other senior executives, the Committee Ensure that Executive Directors We undertook a review of the service is sensitive to the views of shareholders remuneration packages allow the Group agreements during 2012 and have now and to the relationship between the to attract and retain Executive Directors of agreed consistent terms with all the Executive arrangements for Executive Directors and the calibre required to meet the Groups Directors.
Where a payment is made in lieu of those of other employee groups.
strategic objectives both in the long and the notice on termination, the payment of a sum The Committee will: short-term in respect of lost future bonus opportunity is now subject to the Committees discretion to Seek the views of investors.
It is as a result Provide material performance-related reduce the amount to re ect unsatisfactory of this feedback that the Committee has rewards through the use of the Annual performance.
In addition, the Committee amended Executive Directors service Bonus Plan and the Companys PSP will have the power to exercise discretion to agreements during 2012 and sought to Ensure a signi cant percentage of the reduce or waive the payment of an accrued improve the clarity of our remuneration package remains at risk.
The Annual bonus on termination if an individuals reporting Bonus Plan rewards achievement against performance is unsatisfactory ensuring that Consider the general base salary increase challenging pro t and Return on Capital no payments made to a departing Executive for the broader UK employee population Employed ROCE targets for the year Director could be classi ed as a payment when determining the annual salary and awards under the Companys PSP for failure.
Finally, any accrued bonus or increase for the Executive Directors.
only vest against challenging relative Total payment in respect of lost future bonus paid Shareholder Return TSR and Earnings on termination will be subject to clawback.
Full The Committee also determines the Per Share EPS targets over a three-year details are set out on page 65 of this Annual principles and policy of remuneration period.
which shall apply to the Groups senior managers.
The responsibility for determining The Committee considers that payout at Looking forward the precise compensation package to meet maximum levels under these Plans will be For many years, we have sought to ensure a local practice and performance lies with the as a result of signi cant outperformance by strong link between the Companys strategy, Group Chief Executive and the responsible the business, with substantial levels of return the performance delivered, the creation of Executive Director.
long-term shareholder value and the level of remuneration received by the Executive The Committee believes that the current Directors.
We intend to continue with a remuneration structure is well aligned to the remuneration policy that rewards fairly, remuneration policy and Company strategy.
recognises achievements and maintains the ability of the Group to recruit and The metrics that we have incorporated into retain the best talent in the interests both the short and long-term incentive plans of all our shareholders.
are guided by the Companys KPIs below.
Gareth Bullock Chairman, Remuneration Committee Aligning remuneration with KPIs Group operating pro t Pro tability annual ROCE Strong returns annual Relative TSR Strong comparative share performance long-term EPS growth Pro t growth long-term Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 61 Remuneration report continued 2.1 2013 Remuneration policy The tables below summarise our remuneration policy with effect from 1st January 2013.
This is unchanged from 2012, apart from where noted.
1 Fixed elements of remuneration Element and purpose Operation Change from 2012 Executive Directors Base salary Reviewed annually by the Committee.
Reviews take account of Company An average 2.3% increase for all Executive and individual performance, changes in responsibility and levels of increase Directors in 2013.
To attract, retain and motivate for the broader UK employee population.
high calibre executives Base salaries effective 1st January 2013: 1 Reference is also made to median levels within our comparator group.
M. E. Vernon: 500,000 2.0% The Committee considers the impact of any base salary increase on the D. J. Meredith: 307,000 3.0% total remuneration package.
N. H. Daws: 280,000 2.2% N. J. Anderson: 266,000 2.3% J. L. Whalen: $394,000 2.1% This is similar to the average increase for the broader UK employee population of some 2% and takes into consideration the other factors noted.
Bene ts The Company provides: No change To provide market competitive Company car and associated running costs or cash allowance bene ts in lieu Life assurance Disability insurance Private health insurance Telecommunications equipment 2 Tax treaty adjustment not tax equalisation Reimbursement of reasonably incurred expenses including those linked to relocation and repatriation.
3 Pension The Company provides: No change To offer market competitive M. E. Vernon and J. L. Whalen US nationals levels and to aid retention of Total bene t of 25% of base salary comprising executives - Participation in US fide ned bene t plan, at the time of participation - Balance paid in cash on pro-rated pension, at the time of payment D. J. Meredith and N. H. Daws - Participation in the UK fide ned bene t pension scheme - Cash alternative of 25% of base salary offered N. J. AndersonT otal bene t of 25% of base salary comprising contribution to a private pension plan or cash alternative.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Fees The Chairman is paid a single fee for all of his responsibilities.
The Chairmans fee has been increased by 2.1% and the Non-Executive Directors To attract and retain high The Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee.
The chairmen of the base fee by 2.3% in 2013. calibre individuals by offering main Board Committees and the Senior Independent Director are paid market competitive fee levels an additional fee to re ect their extra responsibilities.
The Company Fees effective 1st January 2013: reimburses reasonably incurred expenses.
Basic fees Fees for the Non-Executive Directors are reviewed every year by the Board, Chairman: 143,000 with reference to UK market levels.
Non-Executive Directors base fee: 44,500 The Chairmans fee is reviewed every year by the Board, with reference Additional fees to UK market levels.
Senior Independent Director: 2,000 Audit Remuneration Committee Chairmen: 8,500 1 The pay benchmarking comparator group comprises companies that the Committee has identi ed as relevant comparators given the nature of their business, size and geographic exposure.
The constituents will change from time-to-time but will remain subject to the same selection criteria.
In respect of the 2013 review, the comparator group comprised 16 companies, namely: Bodycote, Chemring, Cookson, Fenner, Halma, IMI, Laird, Meggitt, Melrose, Morgan Crucible, Renishaw, Rotork, Senior, Spectris, Ultra Electronics and Weir Group.
Against this comparator group, the Company is positioned between median and upper quartile with respect to market capitalisation, and between lower and median quartile with respect to revenue.
The same comparator group is used to assess the market competitiveness of annual bonus and long-term incentive opportunity.
2 Mr Vernon pays UK taxes under his service agreement.
While in transition between his US and UK home locations Mr Whalen is liable for appropriate tax payments in both the US and the UK.
The Company reimburses these Directors only for any additional double tax they might be liable for as a result of being subject to US and UK tax.
This corresponds to the US tax payable for days worked in the US where these Directors suffer double taxation.
Over the last five years these amounts in respect of Mr Vernon have never exceeded $40,000.
Mr Whalen has not incurred any double taxation and therefore no payments have been made to Mr Whalen under this arrangement to 31st December 2012.
3 Further information regarding pension can be found on pages 69 and 70 of this Remuneration Report.
62 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
