Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 75 Remuneration Report Introduction To assess performance, targets are set each policy has to be able to respond.
SSE should year that are clear, robust and objective.
never have found itself in the position it did At the same time, there has to be a realistic in relation to doorstep selling activities.
Its for appraisal of performance in the context of this reason that the Remuneration Committee the wider economic and energy environment.
agreed that the Executive Directors should Unexpected situations or issues can arise that forego the Corporate Performance element take priority and test the skills and resilience of the Annual Incentive Scheme, despite the of the Executive Directors and other members fact that an award could have been made of the management team, and these should on the basis of the targets set at the start be taken account of as well.
Lady Rice CBE Remuneration Committee Chairman Judgement Teamwork The Executive Directors at SSE are clearly While reward must reect the responsibility In last years report, I noted that executive well-paid, relative to the average employee, and contribution of the individual, for us but a key feature of our remuneration policy is teamwork is one of the essential elements remuneration was a high prole issue, and to make sure they are fairly rewarded and not on which individuals are rewarded.
A year on, the prole of the issue has become even higher.
While the actual position may vary from one year to the next, the goal is to keep Teamwork must also extend beyond the renewed investor activism.
But activism should reward below market median for FTSE 20-50 Executive Directors, to the other employees start within a business itself.
And while companies excluding financial services and of the organisation.
Restraint in remuneration investors mainly look back as they judge remuneration, a business can and should below median against other benchmarks such contributes to that culture of teamwork by as FTSE 100, industrial companies and direct ensuring that Executive Directors and other look ahead as well.
At the same time, it is designed senior managers do not become remote or to reect the responsibility and contribution In January 2012, the UK Secretary of State detached from the people they are leading.
for Business told the House of Commons that of the individual and to make sure that SSE is able to retain people of the necessary calibre.
Similarly, effective remuneration for Executive a major transformation needs to get under Directors can only be a sound investment if way, as he set out a series of remuneration In terms of contribution, SSEs Executive reforms.
SSE endorses in principle what the that investment extends to other people.
One reforms are trying to achieve.
In particular, Directors have each worked for the Group for of the important issues that the debate on at least 15 years and given a total of over 30 executive remuneration has raised is the link what Executive Directors earn needs to be years service to the Board.
This is a sustained, between reward at the top of organisations clear and easily understood and should help shareholders to hold companies to account long-term commitment and their contribution and elsewhere in those organisations.
But we need to has helped SSE to deliver an above-ination continues to make that link when assessing increase in the dividend every year since it the position for Executive Directors.
consider as well what counts as performance: was formed in 1998.
Very few companies in the traditional focus on short-term results alone simply isnt good enough.
Reward the UK can say that.
Fundamentally, SSEs remuneration policy should also reect longer-term aspects of the remained unchanged in 2011 12 and no Much of the debate on executive remuneration major changes are planned in 2012 13.
We business both repercussions of decisions in centres on what is perceived as reward for believe it is important that there is stability in the past and expectations for the future.
And it should respond to the external economic failure.
Equally, success must be genuine remuneration policy to ensure that criticisms and sustained or it isnt really success.
SSEs of complexity, opaqueness and lack of environment, especially at times of constraint.
achievement in fullling, year after year, its transparency cannot be levelled against SSE.
first financial responsibility to shareholders The Remuneration Committee continues Transparency SSE sets great store by transparency in dividend growth is a success to which the to stay close to the concerns of shareholders Executive Directors, individually and collectively, and other stakeholders, and we continue to remuneration reporting: its overall approach have contributed enormously year after year.
welcome shareholder feedback on any issue is straightforward.
What Executive Directors earn is made up of: base salary, plus some related to executive remuneration.
benets-in-kind: cash and shares awarded Fairness The responsibilities of the Executive Directors Straightforward, performance-related, retentionunder an annual incentive scheme: and a are extensive, and growing.
They lead an focused, and below median these are the long-term incentive scheme, also with shares.
organisation which operates major assets Three of the elements are  of SSEs remuneration policy, related and two of the elements can only be such as power stations and electricity lines looking back and looking ahead.
Responsibility, and which looks after millions of customers commitment and leadership these are the earned through continued service, to help energy needs.
The standards which are characteristics expected of SSEs Executive encourage Executive Directors to remain with the Company.
The focus on performance is expected in asset operation, as in customer Directors.
In presenting this remuneration also being emphasised by the introduction service, are rightly increasing.
Providing the report to shareholders, I believe that these necessary leadership, and living with the characteristics have all been demonstrated.
of a mechanism to claw back share awards associated responsibility, requires fair if the need arises.
Retention and ongoing Lady Rice CBE service is further recognised through the remuneration.
Chairman pension arrangements in place for the Fairness works both ways, however.
When Executive Directors, which reward ongoing things go wrong, a companys remuneration tenure of service.
