Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 77 Remuneration Report continued Remuneration in 2011 12 March 2012 meeting the Committee agreed decisions for 2011 12.
They included positive At a glance to adopt a number of the proposals at an aspects of performance, including effective early stage rather than wait until they teamworking, achievement of important How has this Remuneration Report become a formal requirement in 2013. personal objectives and another increase in been put together?
In January 2012 the UK government adjusted profit before tax.
They also reect recommended that remuneration reports During the last year the Committee discussed the decision to adjust payments under the the need to put in place a claw back Annual Incentive Scheme to reect the should comprise two sections: one setting out arrangement in both the main incentive plans difficulties in which SSE found itself in relating how remuneration policy has been implemented in the previous year for SSE, 2011 12 : and from 2012 grants onwards.
This would allow to the use of sales aids in doorstep selling.
one setting out future policy for Executive the Committee potentially to reduce payouts under these arrangements should there be How has SSE presented one single remuneration.
With sections on Remuneration in any events such as material mis-statement figure for total remuneration for 2011 12 pages 75 to 79 and on Remuneration for 2012 13 and beyond pages 80 to 83, of accounts, gross misconduct, or something each Executive Director?
this Report follows that structure.
which causes significant reputational damage At SSE, what Executive Directors earn to the Company.
is made up of: What are the principles of the SSE Executive Remuneration Policy?
What issues did the Remuneration base salary: attract and retain Executive Directors who Committee take account of in benets-in-kind: making its decisions?
cash awarded under the Annual Incentive run the Company effectively for the benefit The Remuneration Committee Chairmans Scheme: of shareholders, customers and employees: adopt a competitive and straightforward Introduction on page 75 and the table on shares awarded under the Annual Incentive page 79 summarise the issues that the Scheme and secured through continued approach to total remuneration, which Committee took account of in making its employment: and meets shareholder expectation: reinforce the culture and teamwork to deliver the long-term growth and What is SSEs Total Executive Remuneration Policy?
sustainability of the business: and Summary of remuneration policy set Total Remuneration Policy at levels which promote the long-term development Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration of the business and reward individuals in line with performance.
Long-term three years Base salary Short-term annual What was new in 2011 12?
Annual Incentive Scheme Performance Share Plan Colin Hood Chief Operating Officer retired 75% maximum cash and PSP 3 years Pension 25% deferred shares from the Company in October 2011.
The 25% linked to relative FTSE 100 final salary Remuneration Committee confirmed the TSR, 25% MSCI Eur.
Utilities TSR, Linked to individual and team remuneration terms on exit which provided performance, corporate, financial 25% dividend growth, 25% Benets-in-kind exactly what he was due under either his and operational measures adjusted annual EPS growth car, private medical contract of employment or through the rules of the relevant incentive plans.
Minimum shareholding requirement equal to 100% base salary Colin Hoods existing responsibilities were shared between Gregor Alexander, Alistair How is the remuneration package structured?
Phillips-Davies, and selected Management Total Remuneration Policy % each component element Board members.
With the new responsibilities in mind, Alistair Phillips-Davies and Gregor Target Alexanders remuneration arrangements 38% 15% 19% 28% were reviewed, resulting in both receiving an increase in basic pay of 10% with effect from Stretch 1 November 2011.
There was no increase in 26% 10% 26% 38% salaries for the Executive Directors in 2010 11.
No other terms were adjusted and their next Base salary benefits-in-kind Pension Annual Incentive Scheme PSP formal pay review will be in April 2013.
The Base salary includes 1% to cover benets-in-kind, namely a car allowance and private medical plan.
cost of Colin Hoods retiral, including the pay enhancements to those taking on more The pension element is the average of the present value of providing a single year of pension responsibilities as a result, will be absorbed for the Executive Directors.
within a period of less than one year.
Target performance comprises annual incentive scheme awarded at target level ie 50% of base salary and, for the Performance Share Plan, an assumption that 50% of shares under BIS launched a consultation exercise to award will vest.
improve both the reporting and governance Stretch performance is based on an annual incentive of 100% of base salary with exceptional arrangements in Executive remuneration.
The targets being met and the Performance Share Plan is calculated based on the maximum Committee participated in the consultation grant at 150% salary which gives a range between 47%-64% in variable pay to recognise exercise putting forward SSEs views.
SSE Annual Report 2012 78 Remuneration Report continued Remuneration in 2011 12 shares awarded under the Performance Share What did the Executive Directors earn during the year ending 31 March 2012?
Plan, secured through continued employment and attaining performance criteria.
Base Cash DBP vesting PSP vesting Total Total salary Benets incentive Subtotal value value 2012 2011 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s The calculation of what Executive Directors earned in 2011 12 is made up of salary, benets-in-kind, cash awarded under the Ian Marchant 840 19 158 1,017 170 1,187 1,382 Annual Incentive Scheme for 2011 12 and Colin Hood 377 10 94 481 125 606 1,059 Gregor Alexander 516 16 123 655 98 753 816 shares awarded under the Annual Incentive Alistair Phillips-Davies 516 16 102 634 98 732 815 Scheme and Performance Share Plan in 2008 09, but earned in 2011 12 as a result Total remuneration 2,249 61 477 2,787 491 3,278 4,072 of continued employment and, in the case of the Performance Share Plan, through Note: The shares earned under the DBP were awarded in respect of performance in the year to 31 March 2009 but were performance over the three years against subject to continued employment with SSE until at least 31 March 2012, excluding Colin Hood who retired on 31 October 2011 and received these shares on his retiral.
The value is based on the shares disclosed in table D and, in addition, dividend the criteria for awards.
shares as follows: Ian Marchant 2,076 shares, Gregor Alexander and Alistair Phillips-Davies 1,192 shares, and Colin Hood 1,385 shares.
The shares earned under the PSP were granted in 2009 but were subject to continued employment with SSE until at least 31 March 2012 and to SSEs performance over the three years to that date in respect of Total Shareholder Return The table opposite sets out what each Executive and Adjusted Earnings Per Share.
The valuation of the shares of both schemes is based on the closing price of 1,329p as at Director earned in 2011 12 on this basis.
The cash payment under the Annual Incentive Scheme will be made in June 2012.
In addition, the Directors also participated in pension arrangements during the year to 31 March 2012 and accrued What is the position with regard to additional benets under these arrangements.
More information is given in table B on page 84. members of the Management Board?
Colin Hoods salary reects earnings up to his leaving date of 31 October 2011 and his DBP vesting value reects the In addition to the three Executive Directors, vesting of the 2009 award.
Alistair Phillips-Davies and Gregor Alexanders salary reects an increase in basic salary from 495,000 to 544,500 from 1 November 2011.
SSE has seven Managing Directors who are also members of the Management Board, the How do the earnings of the Executive Directors compare with other financial dispersals?
role of which is summarised on page 58.
On the same basis as that used for determining 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Executive Directors earnings in 2011 12, m m m m m the total earnings of the seven Managing Directors in 2011 12 was 2,313,000.
1 Executive Directors earnings 5.1 7.0 4.5 4.1 3.3 Dividend payments to shareholders 502.8 551.9 618.5 659.8 716.9 How does Executive Directors Capital and investment expenditure 810.3 1,279.8 1,315.2 1,443.7 1,706.9 remuneration compare with 2 Contribution to government revenues in UK 413.6 402.0 460.7 343.8 396.4 other financial dispersals?
3 Staffing costs 438.8 537.4 585.3 615.2 624.9 The UK government has said that, to provide context, companies should outline how 1.
On same basis as What did the Executive Directors earn?
remuneration for Executive Directors compares 2.
Includes Corporation Tax, Employers National Insurance Contributions and Business Rates.
Wages and salaries and share-based remuneration for all staff, as per note 6 i of the accounts, excluding Executive Directors.
with other dispersals such as dividends, capital and investment expenditure, taxation and general staffing costs.
The Executive earnings show a reduction Executive Directors earnings despite strong business performance for SSE has set out the position for each of these compared with dividend payments two main reasons: areas in the table opposite.
It shows that Rebased to 100 for every 1 spent on Executive Directors a reduction in the number of Executive 160 earnings by SSE in 2011 12, 122 was paid Directors during 2011 12 from four to in tax, 192 was spent on employee costs, 140 three: and 220 was made in dividend payments to the fact that despite strong underlying 120 shareholders and 524 was spent on capital performance the long-term incentive plan and investment expenditure.
100 did not pay out in 2010 11 or 2011 12 although it should pay out in future years 80 SSEs contribution to government revenues if performance criteria are met.
in the UK is also included in the table, and the 60 overall position on taxation is set out on page 40 23.
It is important to note that: Remuneration glossary of terms 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 STI Short Term Incentive Executive Directors earnings as described E xecutive Directors earnings LTI Long Term Incentive in this report are subject to taxation in the Divi dend payments to shareholders PSP Performance Share Plan UK: and BIK Benets-in-Kind in line with the countries in which it has MSCI Morgan Stanley Capital Index substantial commercial operations, SSE TSR Total Shareholder Return is liable for taxation in the UK and Ireland EPS Earnings Per Share only and does not use so-called tax havens DBP Deferred Annual Incentive Scheme to avoid paying tax.
Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 79 Remuneration and performance Executive Directors salary and incentive plans 2011 12 Performance measure Purpose link to strategy Policy and decisions Base salary Reects market data, role, business and individual Following an increase in responsibilities the performance measured against SSEs strategy as Finance Director and the Generation and Supply set out on pages 1 to 53.
Director received a one-off increase of 10%.
Following the annual review in March 2012 the salary for the Chief Executive was increased by 3.5%, the first increase since January 2009.
Annual Incentive Scheme Range of 25%-30% awarded The Annual Incentive Scheme is determined by The performance targets are clearly linked to Maximum award of up to 100% of base salary: the Remuneration Committees assessment of SSEs strategy, which is to deliver sustained real 75% in cash non-pensionable : 25% compulsorily the performance during the year, based on the growth in the dividend through the efficient deferred into shares which only vest, subject to three key areas below: corporate performance: operation of, and investment in, a balanced continued service, after three years.
There is no teamwork: and achievement of objectives.
share matching award in place.
Corporate performance 60% Corporate performance 60% Corporate performance max 60% Group corporate performance is measured by Sustained real dividend growth can only be During 2011 12, SSE delivered a 2% increase adjusted profit before tax, which reects the delivered if it is supported by an adequate level of in adjusted profit before tax, which would underlying profits of SSEs business and the adjusted profit before tax.
At the same time, the have resulted in a payment under this element.
basis on which it is managed.
long-term nature of SSEs dividend commitments It was, however, decided that there should be means that adjusted profit before tax has to be no payment in view of the situation in respect earned in a way that is responsible and durable.
of SSEs doorstep selling activities.
Teamwork 20% Teamwork 20% Teamwork max 20% Teamwork is measured by performance against the SSE believes it will only be successful nancially Safety: Total Recordable Injury Rate and working SSE SET of core values: Safety: Service: Efficiency: if it exercises a wider corporate responsibility to days lost through injury lowest ever.
Service: Sustainability: Excellence: and Teamwork.
others, such as customers and employees, on Leading position among the major energy Performance against these values is assessed whom its success ultimately depends.
Efficiency: Lowest-ever customer minutes lost in Southern distribution network.
through SSEs performance management process.
Sustainability: Renewable generation capacity up.
Excellence: Culture of innovation reinforced around 70m of benefit from Licence to Innovate Scheme.
Teamwork: Employee engagement score above average and upper quartile for firsttime company.
All of this resulted in an abovetarget payment of 75% of the maximum.
Personal objectives 20% Personal objectives 20% Personal objectives max 20% SSE believes personal objectives should form a part Personal objectives set during the year covered Overall, the Remuneration Committee concluded of the Annual Incentive Scheme.
In keeping with areas such as performance in respect of safety, that progress was made in areas such as safety, its Teamwork value, SSE seeks to avoid potentially customer service and delivery of new sources for customer service and renewable energy during conicting personal objectives.
Focusing on generating electricity from renewable sources.
2011 12 and that individually and collectively the operations and the investment programme, Success in each of these areas is central to SSEs Executive Directors delivered strong performance they are designed to support achievement emphasis on efficient operations and investment during the year resulting in payment in the of SSEs strategy and reinforce its values.
Performance Share Plan 2009-2012 0% awarded For awards granted in 2009 performance is The two elements of TSR and EPS reect relative Maximum award of 150% of base salary each measured against the following two elements and absolute measures of performance.
Awards are released to the extent over a three-year period.
Total Shareholder Return TSR The relative TSR measure is dependent on SSEs TSR max 50% 100% vests at or above 75th percentile relative long-term share price performance and Out-turn below median of FTSE 100 and 0% 25% vests at median dividend return.
It is therefore directly linked of TSR element awarded: the graph on page 81 straight-line basis between median and 75th to the strategic objective of sustained real reects performance over a five-year period.
no vesting of award if median performance not achieved Adjusted Earnings per Share EPS Adjusted EPS is used to monitor SSEs EPS max 50% 100% vests where EPS is 9% RPI performance over the medium term because it Out-turn growth below the EPS minimum growth 25% vests where EPS is 3% above RPI is straightforward: it defines the amount of profit target RPI 3% and 0% of EPS element awarded.
straight-line basis between 3% and 9% after tax that has been earned for each Ordinary above RPI Share.
profit is required to support the payment of, no vesting if EPS minimum growth of RPI 3% and increases in, the dividend.
is not achieved SSE Annual Report 2012 80 Remuneration Report continued Remuneration for 2012 13 and beyond Executive Directors compared to FTSE year as dividend growth has exceeded RPI 2012 13 and beyond benchmarks to make sure that the ination for the thirteenth consecutive year: Company is not disadvantaged by the management and Collective Agreements During 2012 13 the Committee: current position nor are there any adverse which provide an average 3.5% salary increase this year: and consequences stemming from the long will continue to review its Total service of the leadership team.
total remuneration and basic salary, when Remuneration Policy to ensure it is aligned A number of institutional shareholders benchmarked where relevant to FTSE 20-50 to the long-term needs of the business, were consulted on key aspects of the Total excluding Financial Services, remain behind shareholders and customers: market median for the Executive Directors.
Remuneration Policy as part of a regular will introduce a claw back arrangement dialogue between shareholders and the on its incentive plans to maintain a strong Remuneration Committee.
After taking careful consideration of all factors, focus on performance: and As a matter of policy the Committee takes the Committee decided to increase the base continue to engage with key stakeholders salary of the Chief Executive by 3.5% the first account of any changing or increasing and in particular, participate in the ongoing responsibilities when determining the increase since January 2009, in line with the BIS consultation.
wider employee population, effective from The Committee reviews the long-term total 1 April 2012.
For the two other Executive Total Remuneration Policy reward of the Executive Directors, to ensure Directors an increase of 10% of base salary was that it is suitably aligned with the long-term approved, effective from 1 November 2011, Total Remuneration Policy is integral to overall performance of the business.
to reect the additional responsibilities, which HR Strategy and the SSE set of core values are they have absorbed since the retiral of Colin supported in the objectives, plan design and application of the policy.
The balance of fixed and Hood.
The next planned salary review for all variable remuneration Executive Directors will be in April 2013.
Taking into account the SSE business prole, The principles the Remuneration Committee believes that Current incentive plans The core principles of the Companys remuneration policy are outlined in the around 50% of the total remuneration Annual Incentive Scheme should be performance-related, increasing The purpose of the Annual Incentive Scheme SSE a balanced range of energy businesses up to around two thirds for exceptional is to reward Executive Directors performance section as shown on pages 12 and 13 together performance as shown in the table on page during the year, based on an analysis of with policy details and charts which illustrate performance variation between the target 79 as this rewards performance sufficiently corporate performance, team working and without causing undue risk taking.
Performance is considered and maximum values of the packages.
in the context of targets set in each of the areas at the start of the financial year.
In The policy comprises: Senior executives, managers and employees addition, the Remuneration Committee The Committee appreciates the importance considers Executive Directors management base salary: of an appropriate relationship between the of, and performance in, all of the business benets, including a dened benefit issues that arose during the year.
pension plan: remuneration levels of the Executive Directors, an Annual Incentive Scheme: and senior executives, managers and other employees within the Group.
There is a For 2011 12, the total annual incentive paid a long-term incentive plan.
wider group of senior executives who have a to the Executive Directors was in the range The current incentive plans are shown significant inuence on Group performance.
of 20%-30% of salary, compared to 60% in in the chart on page 79.
The Committee seeks assurance that there is a the previous year, both against a maximum consistency of approach to remuneration and payable of 100%.
The portion of the annual that remuneration is of sufficient value to attract incentive that would have been payable in Total Remuneration Policy Remuneration policy for Executive Directors and retain key executives for the longer term.
respect of corporate performance was withheld in recognition of the position SSE found itself in is to remain below median of the FTSE 20-50, Base salary with regards to the use of sales aids in doorstep excluding financial services, and to be positioned The Committee is mindful of the remuneration selling.
The incentive payable for 2011 12 generally conservatively against direct peers and UK listed companies in related sectors.
SSEs of different groups of employees and considers reects the elements in respect of team wider internal pay arrangements and other working and performance against personal goal is to retain Executive Directors who are relevant external indices such as ination in objectives.
Executive Directors salary and motivated by the long-term success of the the process of reviewing base salary for the incentive plans 2011 12, on page 79, sets out Company, rather than short-term remuneration.
performance metrics used in the assessment of the annual incentive for the year.
This policy and goal reects the SSE culture The Committee conducted a review of in which Executive Directors and Senior For 2012 13, the structure of the annual Managers are motivated by developing the salaries for Executive Directors in November Company for the future, and explains why 2011 and March 2012.
It considered the incentive will remain the same as in 2011 12. following factors in the light of recent The maximum annual incentive payable will long-term growth and sustainability of the market and governance trends: be 100% of salary, split between: business are of such importance when determining remuneration policy.
the Executive Directors continue to deliver a corporate performance 60% : strong financial performance with significant team working 20% : and The Committee reviews regularly the total results to shareholders in a difficult trading personal objectives 20%.
compensation, including pensions, of the Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 81 Changes to performance during the period between the granting and In any single year, it is expected that the annual incentive paid will be around 50% share plan 2010 awards vesting of awards there has been an event of Executive Directors salary for on-target Since 2010, awards have had four performance such as material mis-statement of accounts, performance.
The annual incentive is paid 75% criteria of 25% each.
Threshold vesting delivers gross misconduct or something which causes 25% of each element, with full vesting significant reputational damage to the in cash, and 25% deferred into shares which vest after three years, subject to continued delivering 100% of each element as follows: Company, it will have the ability to reduce service.
The Committee retains the discretion the final award or deem it to have lapsed.
to vary this award level in exceptional relative TSR performance compared to Share ownership policy circumstances as illustrated for 2011 12.
FTSE 100 threshold vesting for median performance and full vesting for upper Employee share ownership is a key part of Total For the Management Board and other quartile performance : Remuneration Policy and is designed to help senior executives a safety modier applies relative TSR performance compared to maintain long-term employee commitment and business understanding, offering the opportunity to any annual incentive awards as safety a selected peer group of UK and other is of paramount importance to SSE.
This European utilities threshold vesting for to benefit from any growth in shareholder value.
modier applies to team working and personal median performance and full vesting objectives and allows an additional incentive for upper quartile performance : The interests of the Executive Directors and to be earned for exceptional safety leadership EPS growth of RPI plus 2% threshold other senior executives are closely aligned but also a reduction for poor safety leadership.
vesting to 8% full vesting : and with those of other shareholders.
The This modier does not apply to the Executive dividend per share growth of RPI plus 2% Performance Share Plan, the deferral of 25% Directors annual incentive scheme, which threshold vesting to 6% full vesting.
of the annual incentive award and employee already takes account of the Companys share schemes facilitate this alignment.
The introduction of TSR performance compared The Executive Directors and certain other to a selected peer group of UK and other senior executives are required to maintain a European utilities the MSCI Europe Utilities shareholding equivalent to one years salary Long-term incentive plan The Performance Share Plan rewards Executive thereby provides sector emphasis and market built up within a reasonable timescale.
Directors and other senior executives over a perspective to the plan.
Consent to sell shares is not normally given three-year period for the continued profitable unless in exceptional circumstances or to The dividend per share growth target reects the fund a connected tax liability until this growth of SSE as measured, up to 2010 11, by Earnings Per Share EPS and the Total fact that the Companys core financial objective level of shareholding is reached.
Shareholder Return TSR compared to the is to deliver continued real dividend growth in the It is also expected that all non-Executive FTSE 100.
Awards equivalent to 150% of salary future while maintaining a good dividend cover.
Directors should hold a minimum of 2,000 shares in the Company.
are granted annually to Executive Directors and at lower rates to other senior executives.
The Committee believes that the two additional As reported on page 59, 43% of SSE measures provide a focus on the performance employees are members of the Share Awards will be released after three years of SSEs wider competitive group, its key Incentive Plan.
35% of employees are members of the subject to meeting demanding performance financial goals and the level of dividend paid.
conditions relating to the Companys relative Sharesave Scheme.
TSR performance and the Companys adjusted Claw back Directors shareholdings as EPS growth.
Further details of the performance During the year the Committee agreed to percentage of annual salary targets are in the table on page 79.
The TSR the introduction of a claw back arrangement performance measure is dependent on the which will apply to all awards made under 2012 2011 Companys relative long-term share price the deferred Annual Incentive Scheme and % salary % salary performance within the FTSE 100, bringing Performance Share Plan from 2012 onwards.
Ian Marchant 367 338 a market perspective to the plan.
The vesting This amendment to the schemes rules will give Gregor Alexander 242 230 of this element requires the Committee to the Committee powers to review the final award Alistair Phillips-Davies 268 256 be satisfied with the underlying financial of shares under these arrangements when they Based on a share price at 31 March 2012 of 13.29. vest.
Should the Committee conclude that performance of the Company.
The TSR measure is balanced by a key internal measure, adjusted EPS growth, which is critical to the Companys long-term success SSE TSR performance: 31 March 2007 to 31 March 2012 and ties in with the Groups strategic goals.
Rebased to 100 SSE 120 FTSE 100 The 2008 PSP award which was due to vest 110 Source: Datastream in May 2011 did not achieve the performance 100 criteria and therefore did not vest although 90 the PSP should pay out in future years if performance criteria are met.
The TSR 80 out-turn was below median for FTSE 100 70 and EPS growth was below target.
60 The 2009 PSP award will also not vest as 50 the TSR and EPS measures are below target.
Mar 07 Mar 08 Mar 09 Mar 10 Mar 11 Mar 12 SSE Annual Report 2012 82 Remuneration Report continued Remuneration for 2012 13 and beyond redundancy an unreduced accrued pension liability.
Dependent upon the circumstances All-employee share schemes Executive Directors are eligible to participate is paid to a member who is aged 50 or surrounding the departure of the Executive in the Companys all-employee share schemes above, with at least five years service or, for Director and financial health of the Company on the same terms as other employees.
These a member who has not yet reached that age, at the time, the Committees policy is to give it will be payable with effect from 50: and consideration to a cash commutation of the schemes comprise: from the age of 55, a scheme member is unfunded unapproved retirement benefit the Sharesave Scheme which allows entitled to leave the Company and receive UURB pension at the time of leaving.
Any employees options to acquire shares using a pension, reduced for early payment, cash commutation would limit SSEs liability, taking into account valuations provided by the proceeds of a monthly savings contract unless the Company gives consent and of up to 250 per month.
Exercise of the funds this pension being paid on an independent actuarial advisors, and would options is not subject to satisfaction of unreduced basis.
be undertaken on what was judged to be a any performance target.
The option price cost neutral basis to SSE.
The Committee has is set at a discount maximum of 20% to The Executive Directors are members of either agreed to consider a cash commutation of the market value: the Southern Electric Pension Scheme or the UURBs, if requested, when Colin Hood is age the Share Incentive Plan the SIP which Scottish Hydro-Electric Pension Scheme and 60.
Prior to that, the benefit from Colin Hoods allows employees to allocate part of their their plan membership predates their Board UURBs will be paid monthly.
In determining pre-tax salary to purchase shares up to a appointments.
These are both funded final whether it is appropriate to offer a cash maximum of 125 per month.
Participants salary pension schemes and the terms of commutation, the Committee will apply receive two free matching shares monthly these schemes apply equally to all members.
for each share purchased up to a maximum of six free shares: and The Directors service contracts provide for Full details of the Executive Directors pension the long service award scheme which a possible maximum pension of two thirds plans can be found in Table B of the audited purchases 10, 20, 30, 40 or 50 shares on final salary from the age of 60.
In relation information on page 84. to Executive Directors who are subject to the behalf of an employee on the occasion of the employee reaching 10, 20, 30, 40 or 50 scheme-specic salary cap which mirrors the Service contracts years service respectively with the Group.
provisions of the previous HM Revenue and Customs cap arrangements the Company It is the Companys policy that Executive provides top-up unfunded arrangements Funding of share schemes and dilution Directors should have service contracts with Shares are purchased in the market to satisfy which are designed to provide an equivalent the Company which can be terminated on the exercise of awards under the deferred pension on retirement from the age of 60 12 months notice given by either party.
Annual Incentive Scheme, the Performance to that which they would have earned if Share Plan, and the SIP.
they had not been subject to the salary cap.
The current Executive Directors service There are no arrangements to compensate contracts contain the key items shown The Companys Sharesave Scheme uses members for any change in their personal tax in the table below.
unissued shares to satisfy the exercise of share options.
As at 31 March 2012, there Service contract key items were approximately six million share options outstanding under this scheme, and if all the Provision Detailed terms outstanding options were exercised this would Notice period 12 months by either Company or Director amount to 0.63% of the issued share capital Termination payment Up to 12 months salary excluding any annual incentive or other of the Company at that date.
enhancement Payment in lieu of notice in staged payments subject to the Pensions policy Executive gaining new employment Pension planning is an important part of the No special change of control provisions remuneration strategy because it is consistent Obligation on departing Executives to mitigate loss with the long-term goals and horizons of the business.
Each employee is encouraged to Remuneration Salary, pension and benets join the relevant pension plan.
In response to Company car or cash allowance government and scal changes, the Company Participation in Annual Incentive Scheme, employee share schemes has provided cash allowance options in and Executive incentive plans exchange for reduced accrual at no extra Private health insurance cost to the Company.
Non competition During employment and for six months after leaving Contract dates All contracts dated 11 March 2005 In common with all members of the pension schemes who joined at the same time as the Executive Directors, the following provisions Length of service relating to leaving the Company apply: Industry service Length of Board service Ian Marchant 20 16 years for retirement through ill-health an Gregor Alexander 21 9 years unreduced pension based on service Alistair Phillips-Davies 15 10 years to expected retirement is paid: Including two years as Finance Director of Southern Electric plc.
in the event of any reorganisation or Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 83 awards under the Performance Share Plan The Company may at its discretion terminate any Executive Directors contract by making were preserved by the Committee on his a payment in lieu of notice equal to the base retirement, to vest at the normal time to the salary which would have been received during extent that the performance targets are met but subject to prorating for Mr Hoods actual the notice period excluding any annual incentive and any other emolument referable service during the three year performance to the employment.
Payment may be made period.
Mr Hoods 2009 award did not vest.
in staged payments, and will either reduce or cease completely where the departing Non-Executive Directors Executive Director gains new employment.
The non-Executive Directors have letters If an Executive Director retires or is made of appointment, and are appointed for xed redundant, the PSP shares will be reduced terms of three years, subject to retirement to reect the point during the three-year by rotation and re-appointment at AGMs.
performance period when the Director leaves and will remain subject to performance.
If the They do not participate in the Annual Incentive Executive Director leaves for any other reason, Scheme, deferred Annual Incentive Scheme, PSP share awards will lapse.
any of the share option schemes, or contribute to any Group pension scheme although as In the event of a change of control of the indicated above they are required to hold Company, performance in the PSP will be 2,000 Company shares.
measured to that date and the award will normally be scaled down to reect the period The fees of the independent non-Executive prior to the change of control.
Directors are agreed by the Board, with the non-Executive Directors concerned not Outside appointments participating in this process.
Executive Directors are able to accept a non-Executive appointment outside the The fees are reviewed against companies of Company with the consent of the Board, similar size and complexity.
To be consistent as such appointments can enhance Directors with wider remuneration policy, fees are set experience and value to the Company.
fees received are retained by the Director.
The non-Executive Directors do not In 2011 12 Ian Marchant was a non-Executive receive any additional fees for Committee Director with John Wood Group plc, and Membership.
Reasonable travelling and other received 45,000 in fees.
Colin Hood was expenses for costs incurred in the course of a non-Executive Director of FirstGroup plc, their duties are reimbursed.
and received 29,200 in fees, he was a Fee history non-Executive Director in Southern Water 2012 2011 Services Ltd and received 58,300 in fees and 000s 000s he was a non-Executive Director of HSI Ltd Board 54 54 and received 17,500 in fees, all in respect Audit Committee Chairmanship 14 12 of the period to cessation of his employment Remuneration Committee on 31 October 2011.
Chairmanship 12 10 Senior Independent Director 10 10 Retirement of Colin Hood Company Chairman 341 341 Colin Hood retired as a Director and ceased employment on 31 October 2011.
He was employed under a service contract dated From 1 April 2012, the fees for all non-Executive 11 March 2005, and did not receive a Director roles were increased by 3.5% in line termination payment on retirement.
Details with the average salary increase of SSEs of his pension arrangements are set out on #.
The Committee awarded Mr Hood a payment under the Annual Incentive Scheme for his period of service in 2011 12: this was subject to performance and will be paid in cash in June 2012 rather than part being deferred into shares.
In relation to his share awards under the DBP from 2009 and 2010, the Committee permitted Mr Hood to call for these shares within six months of his retirement date.
