Governance The Committee reviews its effectiveness, Strategy Target performance as well as its terms of reference, on an The Companys remuneration strategy is Chief Executive annual basis.
The 2012 review concluded to provide remuneration packages that that the Committee had fulfilled its role attract, retain and motivate high-calibre 1 1 Nonand responsibilities against its terms of individuals to deliver superior operational performancereference appropriately.
performance and outstanding financial related pay results, in a manner that aligns with the 53% Committee advisors Groups core values and Business Code of The Committee retained New Bridge Street 2 PerformanceConduct and fosters sustainable, profitable NBS to act as principal independent related pay growth.
To do so, packages must: 2 47% advisor to the Committee during the year.
NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration be aligned to shareholders interests: Consultants Code of Conduct.
be sufficiently competitive: Chief Financial Officer encourage a focus on long-term, In addition to market remuneration data sustained performance and risk 1 1 Nonprovided by NBS and by Towers Watson, management: performancethe Committee receives total shareholder be fair and transparent: and related pay return data and general market data from 58% be consistent across the Group.
Linklaters provides 2 Performancegeneral legal advice on remuneration Policy related pay 2 matters.
Towers Watson assists with To achieve the strategy, the policy for 42% pension accounting for the Company the remuneration of executive directors and acts as actuaries to the UK-based and senior executives includes: Tate & Lyle Group Pension Scheme.
setting base salary around the market During the year ended 31 March 2012, Stretch performance median: NBS, Towers Watson and Kepler Chief Executive rewarding stretching, superior Associates provided no other services performance with upper quartile levels to the Group.
Linklaters provides legal 1 1 Nonof reward: performanceadvice to the Group on a range of matters.
providing an appropriate balance related pay between reward in the short and the long 22% Remuneration strategy 2 term, and between reward that is fixed and policy 2 Performanceand variable: and The remuneration strategy and policy related pay providing a competitive, balanced 78% described here was established following package of benefits.
review, and extensive consultation with major shareholders, in 2010.
This strategy It is the intention to retain the policy referred Chief Financial Officer and policy is purposefully aligned to the to above in the forthcoming year.
Companys business strategy, placing 1 1 Nongreater emphasis on driving Company  arrangements performance and growth, and delivering related pay for executive directors 21% 2 value for shareholders.
Balance between fixed and 2  components related pay The relative proportions of fixed and 79% performance-related remuneration for the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer are shown on the right.
These are valued at both target and stretch performance levels, including base salary and pension, annual bonus and the award value of the long-term incentives.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 49
