DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT This report, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, has been approved by the Board of directors for submission to shareholders for approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The sections under the headings Directors Remuneration, Share Incentive Schemes and Pension Schemes have been subject to external audit.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee the Committee is responsible for reviewing and making recommendations to the Board regarding the broad policy relating to the total remuneration paid to the executive directors and members of senior management of the Company: it meets regularly to review and set all elements of the remuneration paid to the executive directors of the Company, including pension rights, and monitors the level and structure of remuneration for other senior management of the Company.
It also exercises all the powers of the Board in relation to the operation of the Companys share incentive schemes, including the grant of options and the terms of those grants.
The Committee met formally twice during the year and details of attendance at this meeting are provided in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 29.
REMUNERATION POLICY The overall remuneration policy remains, as previously, to ensure that the executive directors of the Company and other senior managers in the Company are fairly and responsibly rewarded for their individual contribution to the overall performance of the Company, in a manner that ensures that the Company is able to attract, motivate, and retain executives of the quality necessary to ensure the successful management of the Company.
The Companys remuneration policy is based on the principle that the fortunes of the directors and senior management should be directly aligned with those of external shareholders, and this is achieved in the case of the Executive Chairman as a result of his significant shareholding in the Company and in the case of the Chief Executive Officer, Finance Director and all other members of the senior management team through the use of share incentive plans.
Changes in the remuneration of the executive directors are decided by the Committee having taken into account all relevant information available at the time.
The Business Review contained on pages 11 to 20 explains how the Company is reliant on the combined efforts of all its employees to manage relationships with both customers and distributors and to deliver a consistently high quality of service, and that it is key to the overall success of the Company and to its future long term profitability that the Company is able to attract and retain a motivated, talented and diverse workforce.
All employees are accordingly given the opportunity to benefit from share options after a qualifying period of employment, and those in customer facing roles are eligible to receive a regular bonus based on the quality of the service they provide.
The Committee takes into account pay levels across the organisation when setting the remuneration payable to all directors both executives and non-executives.
COMPONENTS OF REMUNERATION Each of the three executive directors of the Company, Mr Wigoder as Executive Chairman, Mr Lindsay as Chief Executive Officer and Mr Houghton as Finance Director, receives a base salary, but no bonus.
Whilst many executive directors in similarly sized companies earn significant cash bonuses in addition to their base salaries, the Committee continues to believe that the most effective method by which to incorporate performancerelated remuneration for the executive directors is through the granting of awards under share ownership incentive 34 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS plans rather than through the payment of cash-based bonuses.
This method has the benefit of directly aligning the interests of executive directors with all the Companys shareholders in a clear and transparent manner.
Each of Mr Wigoders, Mr Lindsays and Mr Houghtons service contracts provides for pension contributions equal to 10% of basic salary to be paid by the Company into defined contribution pension schemes.
Mr Lindsay and Mr Houghton were also provided with private health insurance during the year.
The Committee recommended increases to the annual base salaries of each of the executive directors.
Messrs Wigoder and Lindsay received an increase of 6.5% to 330,000 while Mr Houghton received a slightly larger percentage increase of approximately 14% to 200,000 in recognition of the experience he has gained as Finance Director of a FTSE 250 company.
The Committee believes that these salary increases are fully justified by reference to their individual performances, their total remuneration packages including participation in the Companys share incentive plans and current market rates.
The non-executive directors receive fees for their services, the details of which are described below.
The level of these fees was unchanged during the year.
The policy with regard to fee structure is to reflect time commitment and responsibility of the various roles.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION AUDITED Audited details of directors remuneration for the year are as follows: Salary Fees & Pension 2012 2011 Benefits Contributions Total Total Name of Director 000 000 000 000 Charles Wigoder 334 33 367 314 Julian Schild 35 - 35 29 Andrew Lindsay 333 33 366 310 Chris Houghton 202 20 222 188 Melvin Lawson 12 - 12 12 Michael Pavia 20 - 20 20 1 Peter Nutting -- - 5 1 Richard Michell -- - 4 1 Keith Stella -- - 14 Richard Hateley - - - 205 936 86 1,022 1,101 1 retired from the Board on 14 July 2010 SHARE INCENTIVE SCHEMES AUDITED The Company has two share option plans and a Joint Share Ownership Plan the JSOP.
The first share option plan and the JSOP are available to employees, and the second share option plan is available to the Companys independent distributors.
The Employee Share Option Plan Subject to serving the requisite probationary period, all employees are eligible to participate in the Companys employee share option plan and be issued with options over shares in the Company, the number of shares being related to their seniority and length of service.
35 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED It is the policy of the Committee, mindful of the requirements of the Code, to ensure that save in exceptional circumstances performance conditions are imposed on any awards made under share incentive plans to either executive directors of the Company or to those senior executives who are not Board members but whose status and role can reasonably be regarded as giving them a significant influence over the Companys ability to meet its strategic objectives.
When imposed, the performance conditions are determined having regard to the Companys circumstances and its prospects, and prevailing market practice and trends.
It continues to be the view of the Committee and of the Board that it would not be in the interests of the Company to seek to impose performance conditions on awards made to other, more junior, employees whose individual performance is unlikely to have a direct impact on the long term success or strategic direction of the Company.
However, the Committee recognises that the collective contribution of all employees is critical to the success of the Company and continues to believe that the granting of share options at all levels within the organisation generates employee loyalty and helps to ensure that staff turnover is kept to a minimum and below the levels seen across the industry for employees passing their probationary periods.
The Joint Share Ownership Plan Awards made through the JSOP provide participants with a joint interest in tranches of shares which are held until vesting by an independent employee benefit trust the JSOP Share Trust.
The trustee of the JSOP Share Trust is Barclays Wealth Trustees Guernsey Limited.
The value to participants of awards made under the JSOP is based upon the growth in the value of the Companys shares from the date of grant in a similar manner to the value achieved through participation in the conventional share option scheme.
However, participants in the JSOP only receive value to the extent that the share price increase exceeds a compound annual growth rate of at least five per cent the Hurdle Rate.
On vesting, participants receive any gain over the Hurdle Rate on the tranche of shares in which they hold a joint interest, with all the gain below the Hurdle Rate being retained by the JSOP Share Trust.
In addition, awards made under the JSOP to executive directors will only vest to the extent applicable performance conditions relating to the financial and trading performance of the Company are met.
The Networkers and Consultants Share Option Plan The Networkers and Consultants Share Option Plan exists to provide incentives and rewards to those distributors who have been most successful in gathering new customers for the Company.
These distributors, whilst not being employees of the Company, are nevertheless essential to its future growth, and it is the opinion of the Committee that this plan can in some cases be an important factor in their motivation.
During the year a new share option promotion was launched to distributors which will involve the issue of share options with performance conditions attached.
These performance conditions will involve distributors consistently gathering customers each month during the three-year vesting period of the options.
36 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS Details of awards granted to directors Details of the share awards held or granted to directors during the year are set out in the table below further details on the estimated cost of these awards are set out in note 17 to the financial statements : 31 Exercise 1 April March price per Exercisable 2011 Granted Exercised 2012 share from Expiry date Andrew Lindsay Share options 12 Jun 2008 217,400 - - 217,400 330.5p 12 Jun 11 11 Jun 18 JSOP interest 1 31 March 2011 500,000 - - 500,000 n a 1 Apr 15 n a Chris Houghton 10 Dec 2008 50,000 - - 50,000 340p 10 Dec 11 9 Dec 18 26 June 2009 50,000 - - 50,000 278p 26 Jun 12 25 Jun 19 1 Shares held jointly with the JSOP Share Trust The share options held by Andrew Lindsay during the year were granted on 12 June 2008 pursuant to contractual promises made when he originally joined the Company, prior to his appointment to the Board, and on terms that performance conditions would not be imposed in respect of these grants.
Accordingly, these options do not have performance conditions attaching to them.
However, the award of a joint interest in 500,000 shares made to him on 31 March 2011 under the JSOP the JSOP Share Award was made subject to performance conditions which were described in detail in last years annual report.
The JSOP interest allows Mr Lindsay, subject to the achievement of the performance conditions outlined below, to receive any increase in the value of the 500,000 shares over the share price on the date of grant 4.55, plus an annual compound growth rate of five per cent.
This means that if Mr Lindsay were to exercise his award on the first date of vesting, 1 April 2015, he would receive any value over 5.53 per share.
The table below summarises the compound annual growth rates required during the vesting period across the three performance conditions which will determine the percentage of the 500,000 shares that will be used to calculate the total gain attributable to Mr Lindsay, eg.
if the Company were to achieve compound annual EPS and TSR growth of exactly 5% over the vesting period the gain attributable to Mr Lindsay would be calculated based on the total value of 250,000 shares over the annual compound 5% Hurdle Rate.
The number of shares used to calculate the gain which Mr Lindsay will be entitled to receive on vesting will depend on the average growth achieved across the two highest performance conditions.
1 Percentage of EPS growth TSR growth Service number 500,000 shares growth 100% 7.5% 7.5% 7.5% 50% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 2 50%-100% 5.0%-7.5% 5.0%-7.5% 5.0%-7.5% Nil 5% 5% 5% 1 compound annual share price growth assuming 22p annual dividend 2 percentage of shares to be calculated on a straight line basis 37 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The 50,000 options granted to Mr Houghton on 10 December 2008 were granted to him prior to his appointment to the Board on terms that performance conditions would not be imposed in respect of this grant.
However, the 50,000 options granted to him on 26 June 2009 after his appointment to the Board were made subject to performance conditions which were described in detail in the annual report for the year ended 31 March 2010.
The extent to which these options will vest will depend on the average growth achieved across the two highest annual growth performance measures summarised in the table below.
1 Percentage of EPS growth TSR growth Customer base options vesting growth 100% 10.0% 10.0% 15% 50% 5.0% 5.0% 7.5% 2 50%-100% 5.0%-10.0% 5.0%-10.0% 7.5%-15.0% Nil 5.0% 5.0% 7.5% 1 compound annual share price growth assuming 22p annual dividend 2 percentage of shares to be calculated on a straight line basis At the year end the Companys share price was 691p and the range during the financial year was 455p to 802p.
DIRECTORS CONTRACTS OF SERVICE There are Service Contracts or Letters of Appointment for Charles Wigoder 5 May 2011, Andrew Lindsay 5 May 2011, Chris Houghton 16 February 2009, Julian Schild 25 May 2010, Melvin Lawson 27 September 2006, and Michael Pavia 13 December 2006.
These provide notice periods of three months on either side for the nonexecutive directors and the following notice periods for the executive directors: Mr Wigoder twelve months on either side and Mr Lindsay and Mr Houghton each with six months on either side.
No contract provides for compensation for loss of office.
PENSION SCHEMES AUDITED The Company makes no contributions to the pensions of any current directors except to Mr Wigoder, Mr Lindsay and Mr Houghton, details of which are shown above.
38 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS PERFORMANCE GRAPH SHOWING TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN The following graphs show the Companys performance measured by total shareholder return compared with the performance of the FTSE All Share Fixed Line Telecommunications Index and the FTSE 350 for the period 1 April 2007 to 30 March 2012.
As noted in previous years, the FTSE All Share Fixed Line Telecommunications Index was initially selected at a time when a larger proportion of the Companys revenues related to the supply of telephony services: only approximately 20% of the Companys revenues are now generated from such telephony services.
Last year the Committee introduced the FTSE 350 Index as a further comparator in the light of the fact that there are no sector specific indices containing directly comparable quoted companies supplying a broad range of services similar to that provided by the Company.
Source: Thomson Datastream Julian Schild Chairman of the Remuneration Committee On behalf of the Board 22 May 2012 39 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
