Governance Corporate governance statement continued Most Board meetings in 2012 were held at UBMs ofces in How the Board operates Dublin.
The November and December meetings were held in We have a number of processes in place that help the London, where the majority of future meetings will take place.
Board perform as effectively as possible.
There is a formal We plan to meet at an overseas business location annually.
schedule of matters to be considered by the Board which is reviewed annually.
Directors may seek independent professional advice if they consider it will help them to carry out their duties.
All directors Responsibilities of the Board include: also have access to the advice and services of the Company t Approval of the annual budget including capital expenditure Secretary, who is responsible for keeping them updated and and Treasury policy: informed of general developments which may be relevant to their responsibilities.
The Company Secretary is not a t Approval of the Groups strategy: Board director.
t Approval of the interim and annual financial statements: Board performance and evaluation t Succession planning: The Board regularly evaluates its performance and that of its t Dividend policy: Committees.
We agreed that an external facilitator should carry t Major acquisitions, disposals and substantial property out Board evaluation in 2011-2012 and appointed Lintstock in transactions: and September 2011.
Lintstock provides an online corporate t The Groups system of internal controls.
governance management system to UBM but has no other Decisions on operational matters are delegated to the connection with the Group.
The process involved condential executive directors and to divisional boards, under formally questionnaires completed by directors and other senior documented authorities.
executives who attend Board or Committee meetings or interact with the Board in other ways.
Lintstock then carried We also have an established agenda of the items to be out individual interviews with directors to develop their considered at Board meetings, which ensures regular updates responses further.
The areas covered included: on the Groups nances, operations, strategy and development.
Standing items include written reports from the CEO, CFO and t Board composition, expertise and dynamics: Company Secretary and on communications and investor t Time management and Board and Committee support: relations.
A forward planner in each Board pack now provides t Strategic oversight: an overview of the matters scheduled for consideration during t Risk management and internal control: and the financial year.
t Succession planning and human resource management.
Presentations are made by executive directors and by divisional management and other senior executives on specic issues.
The results were distilled into a report which was considered by There are guidelines for such presentations that ensure the the Board in February 2012.
Areas identied for action included: Board receives adequate information and has sufficient time t Review of the structure and content of the agenda for for debate and challenge.
Board meetings: Papers for Board and Committee meetings are generally t Review of membership of the Board Committees: circulated at least six days before the relevant meeting to give t Increased focus on human resource oversight: and directors adequate time to review them before the meeting.
t Development and articulation of the Groups strategic plan.
During the year we agreed to move to an electronic system for distributing Board and Committee papers, improving the The new Chairman was made aware of the results and efficiency of our communications and reducing paper usage.
recommendations of the review and has taken them into account in her leadership of the Board.
She will report back Management accounts are circulated to directors on a monthly on progress to the Board, and the evaluation in 2013 will help basis and other information is distributed between meetings to measure progress against those objectives.
Board discussions are held in an open and collaborative atmosphere with sufficient time allowed for debate and challenge.
The Board has six scheduled meetings each year, although additional meetings may be convened as and when necessary.
There were ten Board meetings in 2012.
See page 47 for details of individual attendance by directors at Board and Committee meetings.
48 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Summary of the Training and induction Boards key activities All directors are offered the opportunity to further their during 2012: professional development by attending seminars and briengs.
In addition, briengs are arranged on matters of specic January relevance, for example the external auditors presented to the Review of Audit Committee on developments in financial reporting and strategic plan corporate governance.
There is an induction process for all directors on appointment, which includes discussions with the Chairman and executive directors as well as one-to-one briengs and presentations from other directors and senior management on matters affecting the Groups businesses and procedures.
February The induction process for the new Chairman started shortly after Approval of the full year the announcement of Dame Helens appointment and continued financial results and dividend: March for a period of six months after she formally took up the role.
Reviews of the Groups risk prole Discussion of The principal elements of the process comprised: and risk management processes: M&A opportunity corporate governance t Brieng meetings with the CEO and CFO as well as senior compliance: Board performance evaluation divisional management: t Meetings with other members of the Head Ofce management team: t Visits to PR Newswire in New York and UBM Asia in Hong Kong, Beijing and Shanghai: May July t A series of introductory meetings with major investors: Appointment of new Chairman: Review of project to Reviews of capital structure and standardise Group finance, data t Meetings with the Groups external auditors, its financial and liquidity and pension scheme and reporting systems: Approval other advisers: funding: Approval of corporate of the interim financial results t A comprehensive brieng pack including copies of past Board acquisition: Received and interim dividend: Approval presentation on scenario of the Data Services minutes: key brokers and analysts reports: principal Group planning exercise strategic review policies: governance information relating to the Groups compliance with the Code and the respective responsibilities of the Chairman, CEO, the Board and its committees.
Diversity We strongly support the principle of reducing any gender imbalance both at Board level and throughout our businesses.
October September We take seriously the development of female talent at a Received presentation Reviews of UBMs tax senior level and will take this into account in all future from CEO of PR Newswire: policy, Treasury policy: board appointments.
Decision to relocate UBMs tax M & A projects residence to the UK Currently 22% of our Board is female and our People and Culture section on page 22 contains more information about gender diversity.
December November Approval of the Groups Implementation of the budget for 2013: Received relocation of UBMs tax presentation from CEO residence to the UK of UBM Technology 49 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Corporate governance statement continued We have a formal process, which the Board reviews each year, Investor relations for identifying, evaluating and managing the key financial, We keep our shareholders informed about the activities operating and compliance risks that the Group faces.
This risk and progress of the Group primarily through the Annual Report mapping process, which was in place throughout 2012 and and interim management statements, and updated trading continues in force, meets the requirements of the FRC information at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Financial and Guidance on Internal Control October 2005.
As part of its other Company information is published on our website, which overview of strategy, the Board also regularly considers specic also has links to the websites of other Group businesses.
We also maintain an ongoing dialogue with our major Further information on how we manage risk can be found in the institutional shareholders through a scheduled programme Appropriate Processes section of the Business and strategic of meetings, which are generally undertaken by the Chief review on pages 28 to 33.
Executive and Chief Financial officer.
The Board continued to assess the effectiveness of the risk We make analysts and brokers reports available to all directors, management processes and internal controls during 2012 who also receive feedback from investor meetings.
and to the date of this report, based on matters including: The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders t The ongoing review of strategy which aims to identify if they have concerns that are not appropriate to raise with potential risks affecting the Groups achievement of its the Chairman.
overall objectives: Consultation is undertaken with investors and with bodies t Monthly financial reporting against budgets and the review representing shareholders interests on matters which the of results and forecasts by executive directors and line Company considers appropriate.
management, including particular areas of risk to our business and projects: All shareholders are welcome at the AGM where they can question the directors, including the Chairman and the t The authorisation of proposed investment, divestment and chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
capital expenditure through the Boards Committees and the Board itself: Voting at the AGM takes place by poll.
The results are notied t The review of specic material areas of risk across the Group via a regulatory information service and displayed on the and the formulation and monitoring of actions to mitigate it: Companys website as soon as practicable after the meeting.
and Risk management and internal control t The formulation, review and update of properly documented The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent policies and procedures, to address the changing risks facing of the risks it is willing to take in order to achieve its strategic the business.
It is also responsible for maintaining and reviewing Board committees the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
Three principal committee help the Board in fullling The system is intended to enable the Group to identify and its responsibilities: the Audit, Remuneration and manage the risks inherent in its business and can therefore Nomination Committees.
provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
A number of changes were made to membership of the Board committees during the year.
Upon her appointment as Chairman of UBM Dame Helen Alexander became Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
She also joined the Remuneration Committee in July.
Alan Gillespie stepped down as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in August and joined the Audit Committee.
Greg Lock became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in August.
The terms of reference for all committees may be viewed on UBMs website http: www.
Copies can also be obtained from the Company Secretary, who acts as secretary to all three committees.
50 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee was chaired by John Botts until his retirement from the Board.
Dame Helen Alexander has chaired it since May 2012.
Its other members, all of whom are independent non-executive directors, are Jonathan Newcomb, Alan Gillespie, Terry Neill and Karen Thomson.
In December it was agreed to extend membership of the Committee to all non-executive directors: consequently Pradeep Kar and Greg Lock joined in January 2013.
The role of the Nomination Committee is to ensure an appropriate balance of experience and abilities on the Board, by reviewing its size and composition and recommending any proposed changes.
The Nomination Committee met twice in 2012 and undertook the following actions: Members t Completed the search for a new Chairman and Dame Helen Alexander Chairman recommended the appointment of Dame Helen Alexander Alan Gillespie to replace John Botts, who retired in May 2012: t Considered the re-election of directors at the 2012 AGM, Pradeep Kar specically assessing the independence of Greg Lock Jonathan Newcomb: Terry Neill t Reviewed the Committees terms of reference and agreed to extend membership to all non-executive directors: and Jonathan Newcomb t Considered the process to evaluate the performance of the Karen Thomson Board and its Committees during 2013.
Overview Alan Gillespie, our Senior Independent Director, chaired the In order to achieve success in our strategic objectives Nomination Committee when dealing with the Chairman it is essential that we have a strong Board with a suitable range succession.
It involved of skills, experience and ability.
Succession planning for the appointing an external search rm and using a detailed role Board and senior management, with appropriate regard to specication.
A list of potential candidates whose experience diversity, is key to ensuring the sustainability of that success.
and skills matched the specication was identied and With this in mind the Nomination Committee has sight of the considered by the Committee, and a shortlist was drawn up.
development of senior management throughout the Group.
The shortlisted candidates were interviewed by the Committee and by other Board members, and in February The Committees role is both to ensure that a succession 2012 the Committee recommended to the Board that planning process is in place for executive and non-executive Dame Helen Alexander be appointed as Chairman.
directors and to recommend candidates to the Board.
51 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Audit Committee The Committee operates within written terms of reference, which are reviewed periodically.
To assist in ensuring the objectivity and independence of auditors, a formal procedure is in place for the undertaking of non-audit services by the external auditor.
This identies a number of categories of work where the auditors will not normally be employed, including financial due diligence on potential acquisitions and financial systems consultancy.
Non-audit services carried out during the year comprised non-financial acquisition due diligence, compliance reporting, IFRS advice and VAT advice.
The appointment of the external auditor for other non-audit services may only be made with the prior approval of the Audit Committee.
Approval for projects with anticipated fees Members not exceeding specified limits is delegated to the Group Jonathan Newcomb Chairman Operations Director who is not a Board director or Group Chief Accountant and is reported to the Committee.
Alan Gillespie The Audit Committee has a structured schedule of matters for Greg Lock consideration which is aligned with the Groups financial Terry Neill calendar.
The Committees work in 2012 included the following: The Audit Committee is chaired by Jonathan Newcomb.
Its February other members during 2012 were Terry Neill, Karen Thomson, t Reviewed the 2011 financial results, considered critical Greg Lock and since August 2012 Alan Gillespie.
Karen accounting policies and practices and significant financial Thomson stepped down from the Committee in February 2013. reporting issues including the going concern review, and Members of the Committee have broad financial experience, considered the external auditors report on the results: gained in a variety of disciplines, which the Board considers t Reviewed the Groups risk mapping process and considered appropriate for the Committee to carry out its responsibilities.
specic areas of risk identied through that process and the The Committee met on four occasions during 2012 and details action plans proposed: of individual attendance are set out in the table on page 47.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee provides an oral report to t Considered the independence and objectivity of the external the Board following each Committee meeting and the minutes auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process and and Committee papers are available to other Board members.
recommended their re-appointment: t Met with external auditors without management present: The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee and others invited to attend its meetings include the Chairman, t Approved auditors fees and the disclosure of audit and Chief Financial officer, Group Chief Accountant, Head of non-audit fees in the 2011 Annual Report: Internal Audit, Head of Taxation and the Groups external t Received reports from the internal audit department on its auditors.
At each meeting the Committee meets with external activities and on business continuity planning BCP.
52 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The Committee also oversees the Groups Anti-Malpractice July Policy which provides a mechanism by which staff may report t Reviewed the 2012 interim financial results and considered suspected instances of bribery, fraud or other misconduct in the external auditors report: a secure and condential manner.
Any allegations made t Considered and approved the external auditors 2012 are investigated and followed up to the extent possible.
audit plan: The Committee receives reports from internal audit on the t Received a report on information security at divisional level: progress of such investigations.
t Noted an update paper on tax: Ernst & Young have acted as external auditors to the Company t Received a report from the internal audit department on since 2002 and were re-appointed following a tender process in its activities: 2009.
In accordance with governance requirements, the audit partner was replaced in 2012 after leading our audit process t Approved a Treasury paper: for five years.
t Noted fees for non-audit services carried out by the external auditors: The Committee reviews the performance and independence of the auditors through a process of internal assessment before t Met with external auditors without management present.
recommending to the Board that they are proposed for October re-election at the AGM.
t Received an update from external auditors on regulatory and governance issues: t Considered a report on groupwide information security.
December t Considered year end accounting issues: t Considered post acquisition reviews conducted by internal audit in respect of businesses acquired by the Group in 2011: t Received reports from the internal audit department on its activities and an update on BCP: t Considered and approved the internal auditors 2013 work plan: and t Met with external auditors without management present.
53 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Directors remuneration report Remuneration Report Introduction We will develop and improve the links between what our Committee delivers, and the value that UBM seeks to deliver to our shareholders, customers and employees.
In 2013 the Committee will focus on three specic areas in addition to our normal governance and Committee duties : Improving our engagement and relationship with shareholders Our new Chairman, Dame Helen Alexander, and I agree on how important this is to both the Committee and to UBM.
We took the poor vote on the Remuneration Report at the 2012 AGM very seriously.
We plan to spend more time communicating with our shareholders.
UBM will be more transparent, within sensible commercial limits, and we are determined to maintain good Dear shareholder, relations with our shareholders, and to ensure their views are reected in our policies and actions.
In my new capacity as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present the remuneration report Increased clarity and greater simplicity for the 2012 financial year.
We have a solid reward proposition at UBM, and we will set this out in a clear and succinct way during 2013.
We have adopted some of the UK governments new Business Innovation and Skills reporting proposals.
This 2012 Remuneration Report is structured differently from last year, and it now has two separate sections: Policy and Implementation.
It also has a new policy table in the expected format, and includes some improved basic reporting and analysis, where sensible and practical to do so.
Better links between performance and reward Our Committee will be working in 2013 on a strategic remuneration review.
This review will set out to simplify and update the share-based award schemes we have, as well as ensuring that our remuneration policies and structures are t for purpose.
We will be engaging with our key shareholders later in 2013 as part of the process.
UBM has made significant operational and strategic progress in 2012, reected in strong absolute TSR growth.
Our senior management have achieved their challenging EPS and revenue growth targets for the year, which has been reected in their annual incentive payments for the year.
Greg Lock Chairman, Remuneration Committee 54 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Contents of the report Section 1 Policy Report Key principles of UBMs executive remuneration policy The information in the Directors Remuneration Report has been UBM needs to attract, retain and incentivise executives with the prepared in accordance with paragraph 11 and Schedule 8 of appropriate skills and talent to carry out the Groups strategy The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups and deliver shareholder value.
The guiding principles of our Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008. executive remuneration policy are to: In anticipation of the new reporting regulations and legislation t Offer total remuneration packages that are competitive from the Department for Business, Innovation & Skills BIS this in the sector and countries within which we operate: report has been organised into two sections: t Provide an appropriate balance between xed and Section 1 Policy Report variable remuneration that rewards high levels of Section 2 Implementation Report performance.
Variable remuneration is linked to key measures of both corporate and personal performance: t Incentivise and retain management and to align their interests with those of shareholders: % t Ensure that poor individual or corporate performance is 6.0 recognised and not rewarded.
Underlying Group revenue growth Relative TSR v peer group outperform by 8.25% pa UBMs relative three-year TSR performance v peer group 125% % 86.9 100% vesting of awards 75% 50% % 3.3 25% fully diluted adjusted EPS growth to 49.8p 0% -25% -50% Continuing operations only.
-75% Composition of remuneration expected value basis -100% David Levin UBM Robert Gray 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2012 Source: Kepler Analysis 2013 Salary Pension Annual PSP LTI See page 63.
Bonus 55 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Directors remuneration report continued The policy aims to ensure that executives are rewarded for a combination of absolute and relative performance.
Share-based incentive plans are an important element of variable remuneration, aligning interests more closely with those of shareholders.
1.1 Pay policy table Elements Purpose and link to strategy Operation Annual base salary Required to recruit and retain key Reviewed annually.
If adjusted, the normal effective salary review date is 1 January.
Paid in cash and levels remain unchanged unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Consideration taken of average salary increases across the Group.
Pension, cash Required to recruit and retain key Executive directors receive healthcare, life assurance and a pension allowance & benets employees in our markets.
All UBMs dened benefit schemes are closed to new employees joining the Group.
For executive directors it is UBMs policy to offer dened contribution DC pension provision, or an alternative cash allowance.
Annual bonus or Rewards the achievement of key Targets are set annually and then assessed each calendar year.
Short Term annual financial targets and the The Committee determines bonus level after the financial year end, Incentive, STI delivery of personal and strategic based on performance against targets.
NB Subject to deferral into shares see BIP below.
Bonus Investment A share-based bonus deferral plan There is a mandatory 25% of the annual bonus STI deferred into BIP Plan BIP linked to company performance and for three years.
In addition to the mandatory 25% deferral, individuals may elect to defer up to an additional 25% of their bonus STI into the BIP.
The total deferral mandatory plus elected can therefore be between 25% and 50% of bonus each year.
Performance Share A senior management share plan Share awards vest after three years, subject to performance targets Plan PSP linking reward to company described opposite.
Shareholding To set out minimum UBM shareholding The targets are: guidelines requirements for executive directors, CEO is 1.5 times base salary.
which will encourage greater alignment CFO is 1 times base salary.
56 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Opportunity Performance metrics Policy changes in year When deciding the Committee considers: N A David Levin and Robert Gray will receive salary t Ination increases of 3% in 2013 in t The individuals responsibilities line with average salary t The Companys performance increases across the Group.
Benchmarked against comparable roles within David Levins salary will UBMs TSR peer group, other companies of our therefore be 659,200 in size, and the FTSE 250.
No minimum or maximum increases are determined.
20% of base salary as a pension allowance or N A No changes.
contribution to a DC pension plan.
Maximum percentage of salary is: Bonus is determined based on: No changes.
CEO: 170% t EPS CFO: 120% t Revenue growth t Strategic alignment t Personal objectives The deferral into UBM shares may be matched Share matching is subject to EPS growth over a No matching shares to by further shares.
If the Committee determines a be awarded in 2013. match is appropriate, it will set suitably stretching This position will be EPS targets.
reviewed and may be updated following the Neither the mandatory nor the elected bonus outcome of the strategic deferrals are subject to performance targets.
The mandatory bonus deferral is subject to continued employment.
Share awards are 1.5 times base salary.
Shares vest based on TSR performance against No changes.
peer group described in the table on page 63 All shares vest if UBM TSR outperforms median by 10% pa over three years.
No shares vest if TSR is below peer median over three years.
N A None, but share price changes will alter value held No changes.
57 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Directors remuneration report continued 1.2.
Summary of directors service contracts Non-executive directors receive an annual fee of 4,000 It is UBMs policy that all executive director service contracts in respect of membership of the Audit and Remuneration should be capable of termination on no more than one years Committees.
Travel allowances are paid to non-executive notice and that they should not have a xed term.
Any payments directors, excluding the Chairman, for attendance at Board on early termination by the Company would be made by meetings requiring an overnight stay outside the individuals reference to the unexpired period of notice, subject to the country of residence.
The allowances are 1,000 per meeting directors duty to mitigate their loss.
or 2,000 per meeting involving intercontinental travel.
There were no changes to fees during 2012.
The dates on which each executive directors current service Terms of appointment commenced are: John Botts retired as Chairman in May 2012.
Upon her David Levin 5 April 2005 appointment as Chairman in May 2012, Dame Helen Alexander entered into a three-year contract, terminable by either party on Robert Gray 14 September 2009 not less than six months notice.
Non-executive directors do not have a service contract with the Company.
Instead they Remuneration are engaged under a letter of appointment which sets out an The Boards policy on non-executive directors remuneration is initial term of three years, capable of termination by either to pay fees which reect their responsibilities, are competitive party on not less than three months notice.
None of the with those of other FTSE 250 companies, and which align non-executive directors terms of appointment contain any directors interests with those of our shareholders.
provision for payment of compensation on early termination.
The Board as a whole considers and approves the fees of the Non-executive directors are not entitled to participate in the non-executive directors, with the exception of the Chairman Companys share incentive plans or pension schemes.
whose fees are approved by the Committee.
The Chairman Each directors appointment including that of the Chairman is absent for this discussion.
is reviewed every three years.
In accordance with the Code all Non-executive directors fees are paid partly in cash and partly directors are required to stand annually for re-election.
Fees paid in cash are paid monthly in arrears.
Accordingly, all directors were re-elected at the 2012 AGM The share-based element is satisfied by the delivery of shares with the exception of John Botts, who retired at the conclusion six-monthly in arrears.
These shares are included in table 2.18 of the 2012 AGM.
The dates on which each non-executive on page 65. director was first appointed to the Board were: The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, the Chairman Dame Helen Alexander 10 May 2012 of the Audit Committee and the Senior Independent Director Alan Gillespie 13 April 2008 receive additional fees.
Pradeep Kar 1 August 2006 The fees for the Chairman and non-executive directors Jonathan Newcomb 27 September 2001 were denominated in Euros and paid at the annual rates shown below.
Karen Thomson 1 August 2006 Terry Neill 24 September 2009 Cash Shares Greg Lock 22 February 2010 Chairman 190,000 150,000 Non-executive director 38,076 19,038 1.4.
External appointments Additional fee for Remuneration The Company considers that permitting executive directors Committee Chairman 12,692 to hold ofce as a non-executive director of another company will benefit UBM by increasing their knowledge and experience.
Additional fee for The policy allows executive directors to accept not more than Senior Independent Director 12,692 one outside corporate directorship, subject to Board approval.
Additional fee for Audit Committee Directors are entitled to retain the fees earned.
Chairman 12,692 Robert Gray is an advisory board member of Codere S. A.
Additional fee for membership of the and received fees of 31,803 during 2012 2011: 42,921.
Audit and Remuneration Committees 4,000 Following UBMs return to the UK, fees will be reviewed for 2013.
58 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2.2.
Implementation Report During 2012 the Committee was advised by 2.1 The Remuneration Committee roles and activities  LLP PwC, who were appointed Committee members by the Committee.
PwC also advised the Group on taxation Greg Lock became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and HR matters.
Kepler Associates conducted interim in August 2012, replacing Alan Gillespie who had chaired the valuations of the Performance Share Plan TSR-based and Committee up to that point.
Dame Helen Alexander joined the provided no other services to the Company.
In February 2013 Committee in July 2012.
She was independent on appointment the Committee undertook a review of its advisers and appointed as Chairman of the Company.
All other members of the Deloitte LLP as new advisers to the Committee with effect from Committee are and were throughout 2012 independent 1 March 2013. non-executive directors.
The Committee was also advised by the Company Secretary, Karen Thomson became a member of the Committee on who is secretary to the Committee, the Head of Reward and 25 February 2013. the Group People and Culture Director.
Committee terms of reference The Committee is responsible for formulating and You can read the Committees written terms of reference at recommending policy on executive remuneration.
individual remuneration packages of the executive directors and Copies may also be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Chairman and also reviews the general remuneration framework 2.4.
Base salary for the Groups senior executives.
This includes overseeing the Both executive directors were awarded a 3% salary increase design and operation of the Groups long term incentive plans in 2012 2011: 3%.
In agreeing this increase the Committee and determining the basis on which awards are made under took note of the fact that the average salary increase across these plans.
The Committee also takes into account wider the Groups employees in 2012 was 3%.
David Levins economic conditions, remuneration trends and the general salary therefore rose to 640,000 in 2012 and Robert Grays levels of salary increases around the Group in determining to 451,000. remuneration for executive directors.
Bonus The CEO, David Levin, usually attends meetings by invitation, Bonuses paid during the year but he is not present when his own remuneration is discussed.
In 2012 David Levin had a maximum bonus opportunity The Committee met formally on five occasions during 2012. of 170% of base salary.
Robert Gray had a maximum Details of attendance by its members are shown on page 47. opportunity of 120% of base salary.
These levels will remain Principal Committee activities during 2012 unchanged for 2013.
Meeting agenda items David Levins maximum opportunity comprised 93.5% of salary linked to specic financial targets principally EPS February Reviewing Executive Directors performance in 2011 performance and revenue growth plus 76.5% of salary linked and approving bonuses: setting 2012 bonus targets: to personal objectives.
measuring performance targets for 2009 Bonus Investment Plan BIP and Performance Share Plan Robert Grays comprised 60% of salary linked to financial PSP awards: approving 2012 long term incentive targets principally EPS performance and revenue growth LTI awards and approving remuneration for and 60% of salary linked to a balanced scorecard of new Chairman.
May Commercial strategic update for personal bonus For 2013, the split between financial targets and personal objectives for executive directors.
objectives will become 75% 25% of their respective July Approving interim LTI awards below Board level: bonus opportunity.
October LTI planning, policy and performance metrics discussion: shareholder communication review.
December Remuneration report: long term and short term incentives design: executive director shareholding guidelines and the approach to 2013 incentives below Board level.
59 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Directors remuneration report continued The table below sets out the range of performance criteria that For both David Levin and Robert Gray 25% of their bonus paid were applied to assess the executive directors eligibility for in 2013 will be automatically deferred into BIP Bonus shares, the 2012 bonus and the level of bonus achieved against as is described in more detail on page 62. each criterion: 2.6.
Long term incentives: Long term incentives vested during the year Bonus performance measures for 2012 paid in 2013 Table 2.7 shows awards that were made in 2009 and vested CEO CFO in 2012.
Max Actual Max Actual bonus bonus bonus bonus Bonus Investment Plan BIP % % % % The 2009 BIP Matching award was subject to an EPS-based 1 Financial objectives performance condition.
UBMs EPS did not meet this condition over the period from 2009 to 2011, so none of the BIP Matching Earnings per share EPS 28 28 25 25 shares vested in 2012.
BIP Bonus shares are not subject to any Revenues 22 22 20 20 performance condition.
Strategic alignment 5 5 5 5 Performance Share Plan PSP Total 55 55 50 50 The PSP awards granted in 2009 were subject to a 2 performance condition based on UBMs relative total Personal objectives shareholder return TSR performance against a selected peer Strategy and customers 31.5 24.2 12.5 9.25 group, as described on page 63.
This condition for David Sustainability 9 7.2 3.25 3.25 Levins March 2009 award, covering the period January 2009 to December 2011, was not achieved, so none of the award Financial reporting systems, IT vested in 2012.
For Robert Grays September 2009 award, and Information strategy 4.5 3.3 18 15 during the period September 2009 to August 2012 UBMs Treasury and finance 8.75 6.9 average TSR was 2.9% above the comparator group and consequently 46.9% of the award vested in 2012.
The remaining Investor relations 7.5 5.6 53.1% of the award lapsed.
Total 45 34.7 50 40 Total as a % of maximum bonus 100 89.7 100 90 Total as % of salary 170 152.4 120 108 Total value 975,392 487,080 1 The Companys financial performance is measured against budgets, comprising both EPS and revenue measures.
2 Performance is measured annually against agreed personal objectives aimed at the achievement of the businesss goals.
60 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2.7 Table of awards that vested in 2012 Bonus Investment Plan BIP Bonus BIP Bonus BIP Matching BIP Matching BIP Matching BIP matching Aggregate Aggregate Date of shares shares shares performance shares shares value of value of grant granted vested granted target met vested lapsed vested shares lapsed shares David Levin 13-Mar-09 34,722 34,722 69,444 0% 0 69,444 215,103 430,206 Robert Gray Using the share price on the third anniversary of the date of grant 619.5p.
Performance Share Plan PSP Aggregate Aggregate PSP options Performance PSP options options value of value of Date of grant granted target met vested lapsed vested shares lapsed shares David Levin 13-Mar-09 286,421 0% 0 286,421 0 1,774,378 Robert Gray 14-Sept-09 103,943 46.9% 48,749 55,194 401,895 398,401 Using the share price on the third anniversary of the date of grant 619.5p.
Using the share price on the third anniversary of the date of grant 721.82p.
Vested value includes accrued dividends of 50,015.
2.8 Long term incentives granted during 2012 David Levin and Robert Gray each received an award under the PSP equal to 1.5 times their base salaries.
25% of the bonuses for 2011 were deferred into BIP Bonus shares.
David Levin Robert Gray No.
PSP values calculated by reference to the three-day average share price prior to grant of 586.67p.
Subject to performance conditions as described on pages 62 and 63.
Description of long term incentive plans Details of awards held by directors under the Companys various long term incentive plans are set out in the table on page 67.
61 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
