DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Dear shareholders, COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE Our new look Directors Remuneration Report I am pleased to present our Directors Remuneration Report ATTENDANCE Report for the 2012 financial year.
At Unilever one of our aims is to be a market leader in the field of corporate governance.
Paul Walsh 7 7 We have therefore reviewed the format and layout of our 2012 Chairman of the Compensation and Directors Remuneration Report with the aim of making it clearer Management Resources Committee and easier to understand for shareholders while still providing a high standard of information.
We have also taken steps to take account, as far as practicable, of the draft revised remuneration Ann Fudge 6 7 reporting regulations provided by the Department of Business, Kees Storm 6 7 Innovation and Skills BIS in the UK.
Michael Treschow 7 7 In order to ensure that we were meeting our aims of simplicity and transparency we consulted our largest shareholders in This table shows the attendance of Directors at Committee meetings for the year ended 31 December 2012.
If Directors are unable to attend the UK and the Netherlands and their feedback has been a meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda instrumental in shaping this Report.
items with the Committee Chairman.
Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to attend.
No changes to our remuneration policy We have made no changes to our remuneration policy in 2012.
The Committee has continued to monitor the structure and operation of our executive pay arrangements, including having HIGHLIGHTS OF 2012 regular dialogue with our largest shareholders, to ensure that they remain appropriate and continue to incentivise executives to deliver the business strategy.
In last years Report, we noted that we would be reviewing the performance metrics for our No changes have been made to the remuneration long-term incentive plans to ensure that they support the delivery policy during the year of a long-term sustainable business.
The Committee has decided We have reviewed and amended the structure of to make no changes to performance metrics at this stage but plans to continue to review long-term performance metrics during 2013. our Directors Remuneration Report to make it clearer and more transparent for shareholders 2012 reward outcomes Unilever has made strong progress this year towards its vision of doubling in size while reducing its environmental footprint and increasing its positive social impact.
The business has delivered PRIORITIES FOR 2013 outstanding underlying sales and volume growth, particularly in emerging markets, while continuing to improve its core operating margin.
Diluted earnings per share increased by 5% in 2012 to Review of the remuneration policy, and in particular 1.54 with core earnings per share increasing by 11% to 1.57.
During the year we also made strong progress against our the performance metrics for the long-term incentive Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP goals, further embedding arrangements, to ensure that it remains aligned the purpose of sustainable living across the business.
with Unilevers shortand long-term strategy Consider the introduction of an all-employee In view of this financial success, the quality of performance and their personal contribution, the Committee decided that it was share scheme appropriate to award a maximum bonus of 200% of base salary to the CEO 100% of maximum and a bonus of 147% of base salary to the CFO 98% of maximum.
The Committee also assessed three-year performance against 2010 Global Share Incentive Plan GSIP targets and determined that awards should vest at 109% of target opportunity 54.5% of maximum.
The CEOs salary will be increased by 3.6% with effect from 1 January 2013 which is below the average increase in the Unilever Group and the CFOs salary remains unchanged for 2013.
Paul Walsh Chairman of the Compensation and Management Resources Committee 62 Report of the Directors Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Remuneration Policy The package has been designed based on the following key principles: Supporting the delivery of our strategy through Paying for performance remuneration arrangements The focus of our package is on variable pay based on annual Our business vision is to double the size of Unilever while and long-term performance.
Performance-related elements reducing our environmental footprint and increasing our positive are structured so that target levels are competitive, but social impact through a focus on our brands, our operations and Executive Directors can only earn higher rewards if they exceed our people.
Remuneration is one of the key tools that we have as the ongoing standards of performance that Unilever requires.
a business to help us to motivate our people to achieve our goals.
Aligning performance metrics with strategy The performance metrics for our annual and long-term plans A virtuous circle of growth have been selected to support our business strategy and the Profitable volume growth, increasing earnings and generating ongoing enhancement of shareholder value through a focus returns for shareholders.
on increasing sales value and volume, improving margin, growing earnings and generating returns for shareholders.
Our brands Delivering sustainable performance Strong brands and innovation are central to our ambitious Acknowledging that success is not only measured by delivering growth strategy.
financial returns, we also consider the quality of performance in terms of business results and leadership, including corporate social responsibility and progress against the USLP, when determining rewards.
Our operations We want to reach new customers by developing innovative To ensure that remuneration arrangements fully support products that address different consumer needs at our sustainability agenda, the personal performance goals different price points.
To do this we use our global scale for the CEO under the annual bonus include USLP targets.
to help deliver sustainable profitable growth by seeking to add value at every step in the value chain by enhancing Alignment with shareholder interests product quality and customer service, and rolling out The majority of the package for our Executive Directors is innovations faster across all markets.
delivered in Unilever shares to ensure that the interests of executives are aligned with shareholders.
This is further supported by significant shareholding requirements ensuring that a substantial portion of each Executive Directors personal Our people wealth is linked to Unilevers share price performance.
In order to deliver our challenging business vision we need the best people in all areas of the business.
We need a Non-Executive Directors are also encouraged to build up their structure and performance culture that allow us to be the personal holding of Unilever shares to ensure alignment with best and to adapt quickly to the rapidly changing environment.
Paying competitively The overall remuneration package offered to Executive Sustainable living Directors is sufficiently competitive to attract and retain highly Our business model is sustainable, equitable growth.
The experienced and talented individuals, without paying more USLP sets out a range of goals to improve efficiencies and than is necessary.
develop more sustainable ways of making our products, opening up opportunities for innovation while improving the Preventing inappropriate risk-taking livelihoods of our suppliers.
The Committee believes that Unilevers risk management process provides the necessary control to prevent inappropriate risk-taking.
When the Committee reviews the structure and levels of performance-related pay for Executive Directors and Our remuneration arrangements are designed to support other members of the Unilever Leadership Executive ULE, our business vision and the implementation of our strategy.
it considers whether these might encourage behaviours that are incompatible with the long-term interests of Unilever and The key elements of our remuneration package for Executive its shareholders or that may raise any environmental, social Directors are summarised below: or governance risks.
Where necessary, the Committee would take appropriate steps to address this.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Governance 63 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued AT A GLANCE...
The key elements of the remuneration for Executive Directors are: Fixed elements base salary and fixed allowance Linked to short-term performance annual bonus Linked to long-term performance MCIP and GSIP The following section sets out Unilevers 2013 remuneration policy which remains unchanged from previous years.
Element Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance Changes Supporting and link to metrics made to information strategy policy Base salary Supports the Set by the Boards on the Unilevers policy is n a None For 2013, base salaries for recruitment recommendation of the to set the reference Executive Directors are: and retention Committee and generally point for all Executive CEO 1,010,000 of Executive reviewed once a year against Director salaries at CFO 714,000 Directors of the three reference points: around median calibre required against an appropriate i peers in other global to implement peer group and then companies of a similar our strategy.
to set individual financial size market base salary levels capitalisation and turnover at an appropriate and complexity to Unilever, level relative to taking into consideration that reference point factors such as the number by taking into of employees, human capital consideration the complexity and international individuals skills, nature of the business : experience and performance.
ii the individuals skills, experience and The Boards, on performance: and the proposal of the Committee, apply iii pay and conditions that approach to across the wider manage the base organisation.
salary levels of the Base salaries may be Executive Directors.
reviewed more often than annually in exceptional circumstances.
Base salary changes are usually effective from 1January.
Fixed Provides a The fixed allowance is Unilevers policy is n a None For 2013, fixed allowances allowance competitive reviewed periodically by to set the reference for Executive Directors are: alternative to the Committee against point for fixed CEO 250,000 the provision market benchmarks based allowances at or CFO 300,000 of itemised on other companies of a below median against benefits and similar size and complexity an appropriate peer For the CFO, this includes pension.
in line with the approach group and then housing allowance, which is being phased out to nil in 2015. to base salary.
to make as few Simplifies At current rates the CFOs fixed variations as possible the package.
Changes in the fixed allowance will be reduced to based on individual 260,000 per annum in 2014 and allowance are usually circumstances.
Delinks to 220,000 per annum in 2015. effective from 1 January.
increases in The Boards, on benefits and the proposal of the allowances Committee, apply from increases that approach to in base salary.
manage the fixed allowances of the Paid in cash.
For 2012, the peer group included: Anglo American, AstraZeneca, BASF, Bayer, BHP Billiton, BMW, BP, British American Tobacco, BT, Carrefour, Centrica, Daimler, GlaxoSmithKline, Imperial Tobacco, Metro, National Grid, Nestl, Novartis, Peugeot, Rio Tinto, Roche, Royal Dutch Shell, Sanofi, Siemens, Tesco, ThyssenKrupp, Total, Vodafone, Volkswagen and Xstrata.
The peer group used for benchmarking purposes is reviewed at appropriate intervals to ensure it remains appropriate.
64 Report of the Directors Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Element Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance Changes Supporting and link to metrics made to information strategy policy Other benefits Provides certain Provision of death, disability Social security n a None For 2013, the accrual plus pension benefits on a and medical insurance obligation in CEOs for the CEOs conditional cost-effective cover and actual tax return country of residence supplemental pension basis.
dependent on will be capped at 117,123. earnings in year.
Unilever will also pay For details of benefits the CEOs social security Conditional provided during 2012 see obligation in the CEOs supplemental pension page 77. country of residence to accrual capped from protect him against the 2012 onwards at 12% difference between the of the lower of actual employee social security base salary or 2011 obligations in his country base salary 920,000 of residence versus the UK.
In line with the commitments made to the CEO upon recruitment, he also receives a conditional supplemental pension accrual to compensate him for the arrangement forfeited on leaving his previous employer.
This supplemental pension accrual is conditional on the CEO remaining in employment with Unilever to age 60 and subsequently retiring from active service or his death or total disability prior to retirement.
Annual bonus The annual Unilever targets set Target bonus Annual bonus None For 2013 bonuses, bonus has annually to ensure they opportunities as awards are financial performance been designed are appropriately stretching percentage of base based on: actual will be assessed against to support for the delivery of threshold, salary are: performance the following metrics: our business target and maximum against Unilever CEO 120% underlying sales growth strategy and performance.
targets, the quality other Executive 1 3 : the ongoing of results and Payouts, determined by Directors 100% underlying volume growth enhancement performance the Committee, depend on 1 3 : and of shareholder against personal Maximum bonus actual performance against core operating margin value through performance goals.
opportunities as targets, the quality of results improvement 1 3. a focus on the percentage of base and performance against Performance delivery of salary are: In determining annual personal performance goals.
metrics are annual financial, bonus awards the Committee selected to support CEO 200% strategic and Annual bonuses may also assesses the delivery the annual business other Executive operational be subject to clawback against personal strategy and the Directors 150% objectives.
in the event of a significant performance goals and enhancement of downward revision of the quality of performance: shareholder value.
the financial results in terms of both business of the Group.
Unilever targets results and leadership, and personal including corporate social Unless otherwise performance goals responsibility and progress determined by the for the Executive against the delivery of Committee, Executive Directors are set USLP goals.
Directors are required by the Committee to invest at least 25% of on an annual basis their annual bonus into and may be changed the MCIP see page 66. as appropriate.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Governance 65 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Element Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance Changes Supporting and link to metrics made to information strategy policy Management The MCIP Executive Directors are Vesting of the The Committee None Performance metrics Co-Investment encourages required to buy Unilevers matching shares sets three-year for 2013 awards which Plan MCIP senior shares out of their after-tax ranges between 0% performance are measured over the management annual bonus.
They must and 150% of the grant targets for each three-year period 2013-2015 The key terms to shift their invest at least 25% and may level, dependent on MCIP matching are described under the GSIP of the MCIP focus firmly invest up to 60% of the value actual performance share award and on page 67. were approved towards the of their gross annual bonus against long-term may change these by shareholders The Committee considers sustained in Unilevers shares MCIP targets.
for future awards at the that using the same delivery of high investment shares and as the Committee 2010 AGM.
As such, the performance metrics across performance receive a corresponding considers maximum award of both the MCIP and GSIP results over the number of .
matching shares for is appropriate, as the longer term by related shares matching the CEO and CFO as Performance performance metrics used requiring them shares, which will vest only a percentage of base metrics are reflect our key strategic to invest at least after three years subject to: salary, assuming linked to Unilevers goals and maintain the 25% of their Unilevers performance a maximum bonus, clearly stated alignment of our incentive annual bonus against long-term MCIP maximum deferral growth ambition plans to delivering our clearly in Unilevers targets over the next under the MCIP and our long-term stated growth ambition.
shares and hold three years: and maximum business strategy.
Given that we use four those shares for continued employment: performance under different performance at least 3 years.
and the MCIP, would be metrics, the Committee These shares maintenance of the 180% of base salary believes that the proportion can earn underlying investment and 135% of base of remuneration linked to additional shares.
each performance condition matching shares is not excessive.
Awards under the MCIP to the extent may be subject to clawback that long-term in the event of a significant performance downward revision of targets are met.
the financial results of the Group.
Awards under the MCIP are subject to ultimate remedy whereby the Committee may adjust awards where the result is considered unfair.
66 Report of the Directors Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Element Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance Changes Supporting and link to metrics made to information strategy policy Global Share The GSIP Awards of shares are made Target awards of The Committee None Awards made in 2013 Incentive Plan incentivises annually with vesting conditional shares set three-year are subject to four equally GSIP Executive conditional on Unilevers under the GSIP each performance weighted long-term Directors performance against year as a percentage targets for each performance metrics The key terms to achieve long-term targets over the of base salary are conditional GSIP over the three-year of the GSIP Unilevers next three years.
limited to: award and may period 2013-2015: were approved clearly stated change these for by shareholders Awards under the GSIP may CEO 200% underlying sales growth: growth ambition future awards as at the 2007 be subject to clawback other Executive core operating margin by delivering the Committee AGM.
in the event of a significant Directors 178% improvement: sustained high considers downward revision of cumulative operating cash performance appropriate.
The vesting range for the financial results flow: and and sustainable awards of conditional of the Group.
Performance relative total shareholder returns for shares is between 0% metrics are return.
shareholders Awards under the GSIP are and 200% of the grant linked to Unilevers over the longer subject to ultimate remedy level.
Accordingly the For the three business clearly stated term.
whereby the Committee may maximum award of focused metrics, 25% of growth ambition adjust awards where the shares under the GSIP awards vest for threshold and its long-term result is considered unfair.
are as a percentage performance and 200% for business strategy.
of base salary : the GSIP 150% for the MCIP vest for maximum CEO 400% performance.
other Executive Directors 356% Against the TSR comparator group, comprising 19 other companies 20 including Unilever, 60% vests if Unilever is ranked 10th which is 53rd percentile performance against this group, 100% vests if Unilever is ranked 7th and 200% for the GSIP 150% for the MCIP vests if Unilever is ranked 3rd or above.
Further details of the TSR comparator group are set out on page 73.
When determining the level of vesting the Committee also considers the underlying performance of the business to ensure the payouts are appropriate.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Governance 67 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Remuneration policy for new hires Executive Director severance payment policy In the event of hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee The Group operates the following policy in respect of will typically align the remuneration package with the above exit payments: remuneration policy.
However, the Committee retains the discretion to make remuneration proposals on hiring a new Executive Directors are subject to a notice period of 12 months Executive Director which are outside the standard policy to from Unilever and six months notice from the Executive facilitate the hiring of someone of the calibre required to deliver Director in line with both the practice of many comparable the Groups strategy.
companies and the entitlement of other senior executives in Unilever.
In determining appropriate remuneration arrangements on Severance payments in relation to the service contract are hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee will take into limited to no more than one years base salary plus the fixed consideration all relevant factors including but not limited to allowance and other benefits, unless the Boards, at the quantum, the type of remuneration being offered, the impact on proposal of the Committee, find this manifestly unreasonable existing remuneration arrangements for other Unilever executives given the circumstances or unless dictated by applicable law.
and the jurisdiction the candidate was recruited from to ensure The Committee has the discretion to determine appropriate that arrangements are in the best interests of both Unilever bonus amounts and vesting of share-based awards taking and its shareholders without paying more than is necessary.
into consideration the circumstances in which an Executive Director leaves.
The Committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate to buyout remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving Typically for good leavers, bonus amounts as estimated by the a previous employer.
In doing so the Committee will take account Committee and other share-based awards will be pro-rated for of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached time in service to termination and will, subject to performance, to these awards, the form in which they were granted eg cash or be paid at the usual time.
Good leavers will be determined at shares and the time over which they would have vested.
Generally the discretion of the Board in appropriate circumstances.
buy-out awards will be made on a comparable basis.
Treatment of share-based incentives in the event Service contracts of a change of control In the event of a change of control, matching shares awarded under the MCIP and shares awarded under the GSIP will generally AT A GLANCE... vest based on performance at that time and may, at the discretion of the Board, be pro-rated for time.
Alternatively, participants may be required to exchange their awards for equivalent awards over shares in the acquiring company.
12 months notice from Unilever 6 months notice from the Executive Director Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment Severance payments limited to base salary The terms of engagement of Non-Executive Directors are set out in letters of appointment.
Non-Executive Directors are and fixed allowance and benefits currently appointed for a three-year term, subject to satisfactory Incentives typically pro-rated for time and performance, re-nomination and re-election at annual performance for good leavers only shareholder meetings.
Non-Executive Directors may terminate their engagement upon three months notice.
The letters of appointment do not contain provision for notice periods or compensation if their appointments are terminated by Unilever.
Executive Directors If Executive Directors cease to be Directors, this shall be deemed Date first Effective date of to be under notice by Unilever of termination of employment.
Paul appointed to the current letter of Polmans service contract is dated 7 October 2008 and Jean-Marc Non-Executive Director Board appointment Huts service contract is dated 19 March 2010.
Michael Treschow 16 May 2007 15 May 2007 Louise Fresco 14 May 2009 25 May 2009 The Executive Directors service contracts provide that their Ann Fudge 14 May 2009 7 June 2009 remuneration is reviewed although not necessarily increased Charles Golden 9 May 2006 17 May 2007 at least on an annual basis and that Unilever reimburses them Byron Grote 9 May 2006 16 May 2007 for all reasonable business expenses.
Sunil B Mittal 12 May 2011 12 May 2011 Hixonia Nyasulu 16 May 2007 15 May 2007 Sir Malcolm Rifkind 12 May 2010 13 May 2010 Kees Storm 9 May 2006 15 May 2007 Paul Walsh 14 May 2009 21 May 2009 All Non-Executive Directors were re-appointed to the Boards at the 2012 AGMs.
The unexpired term for all Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment is the period up to the 2013 AGMs, as they all, unless they are retiring, submit themselves for annual re-election.
With effect from the 2013 AGMs, all Non-Executive Directors will sign new letters of appointment.
Continuation of appointment is subject to satisfactory performance, re-nomination at the discretion of the Boards on the recommendation of the 68 Report of the Directors Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to build up a personal re-election at forthcoming annual shareholder meetings.
shareholding of at least one-times their annual fees over the five The new letters of appointment allow for Unilever to terminate years from 1 January 2012 or appointment if later.
a Non-Executive Directors appointment in cases of gross misconduct, bankruptcy or where the Non-Executive Director Remuneration policy supplementary information is prevented from occupying such a position by law.
The new letters of appointment do not contain provision for notice periods Differences in pay policy for directors and other or compensation if their appointments are terminated by Unilever.
employees generally As with the current letters of appointment, Non-Executive Remuneration arrangements are determined throughout the Directors may terminate their engagement upon three months Group based on the same principle that reward should support notice.
Except in exceptional circumstances, the Boards will not our business strategy and should be sufficient to attract and propose Non-Executive Directors for re-nomination when nine retain high-performing individuals without paying more than years have elapsed since the date of their appointment.
Unilever is a global organisation with employees at a number of different levels of seniority and in a number of In considering appointments to the Boards, the Directors and different countries and while this principle underpins all reward Unilever give due consideration to the time commitment required arrangements, the way it is implemented varies by geography and to fulfil the role appropriately.
All senior management participate in the MCIP and receive long-term incentive awards.
Non-Executive Directors fees Non-Executive Directors receive annual fees from NV and PLC.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group No other remuneration is given in respect of their non-executive When determining the pay of Executive Directors the Committee duties.
The Boards determine non-executive fee levels within considers the pay arrangements for other employees in the Group a total annual limit specified in PLCs Articles of Association.
to ensure that remuneration arrangements for Executive In 2007 shareholders approved an increase in the limit for PLC Directors remain reasonable.
Unilever employs over 170,000 people in 96 locations and given Unilevers fee levels reflect the commitment and contribution this geographic spread the Committee did not consider that it was expected by the Group and are set taking into account Unilevers appropriate to consult employees on the remuneration policy for Group-wide reward philosophy.
Fee levels are benchmarked at Executive Directors during the year.
regular intervals against those paid in other global non-financial companies based in Europe.
Incentive awards granted to Executive Directors that are not subject to performance metrics With effect from 1 January 2012, Unilever moved to a modular No incentive awards were made without performance metrics fee structure for Non-Executive Directors to better reflect the in the year.
roles and responsibilities for Committee membership and Chairmanship.
The fees are split 50:50 between PLC in sterling Consideration of shareholder views and NV in euros.
Fees for the Chairman and Vice-Chairman The Committee takes the views of shareholders very seriously are all-inclusive.
and these views have been influential in shaping our policy and practice.
Over the last 12 months we have maintained an open and There were no fee increases to the Non-Executive Director regular dialogue with our shareholders on remuneration matters fee levels for 2013. including consulting with our largest shareholders in the UK and the Netherlands on the performance metrics for the long-term NV PLC incentive arrangements and the revised format of the Report.
Chairman 313,570 and 275,000 Remuneration scenarios our emphasis on Vice-Chairman 94,070 and 82,500 performance-related pay It is Unilevers policy that the total remuneration package for Basic Non-Executive fee 42,760 and 37,500 Executive Directors should be competitive with other global Committee Chair: companies and that a significant proportion should be Audit 17,100 and 15,000 performance-related.
Nominating and Corporate Governance 11,400 and 10,000 The Committee typically reviews, on at least an annual basis, the impact of different performance scenarios on the potential Compensation and Management reward opportunity and pay-outs to be received by Executive Resources 11,400 and 10,000 Directors and the alignment of these with the returns that might Corporate Responsibility 11,400 and 10,000 be received by shareholders.
Committee Members: Audit 8,550 and 7,500 Nominating and Corporate Governance 5,700 and 5,000 Compensation and Management Resources 5,700 and 5,000 Corporate Responsibility 5,700 and 5,000 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Governance 69 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued The charts below show hypothetical values of the remuneration Implementation and operation of package for Executive Directors under three assumed remuneration policy performance scenarios: Below threshold performance under this scenario, there would be no bonus payout and no vesting under the MCIP The following section sets out how Unilevers remuneration policy or GSIP.
was implemented in 2012 and how it will be implemented in 2013.
Meets target performance under this scenario there is target payout of the annual bonus 120% of base salary for the CEO and 100% of base salary for the CFO and target vesting under AT A GLANCE... the MCIP and GSIP 100% of target awards.
Maximum performance under this scenario there is a maximum bonus 200% of base salary for the CEO and 150% of base salary for the CFO and maximum vesting under the MCIP Remuneration paid in 2012 unaudited 150% of target awards and GSIP 200% of target awards.
CEO CFO 000 000 In all scenarios it is assumed that the Executive Directors invest a Base salary 948 697 the maximum possible under the MCIP.
b Fixed allowances and other benefits 519 378 c Annual bonus 1,950 1,050 Note that the actual amount delivered to Executive Directors GSIP performance shares: under the above scenarios will depend on share price d Performance element 2,021 1,415 performance over the three-year vesting period for the MCIP e Share price appreciation element 483 339 and the GSIP.
For the purposes of these illustrations, no share f Conditional supplemental pension 109 n a price growth is assumed.
Total remuneration paid 6,030 3,878 a The methodology to be used in constructing the remuneration The CEOs base salary was 920,000 from January 2012 to June 2012. scenario charts under the proposed revised remuneration Itwas increased to 975,200 effective 1 July 2012. reporting regulations is currently under review by the Financial The CFOs base salary was 680,000 from January 2012 to June 2012.
Itwas increased to 714,000 effective 1 July 2012.
Reporting Lab and as such the following charts may change b For the CEO, this includes the fixed allowance, death, disability and next year.
medical insurance, tax return preparation and a payment to protect him against the difference between the employee social security obligations in his country of residence versus the UK.
For the CFO this includes the fixed allowance, death, disability and medical insurance and tax return preparation.
c Bonus paid in 2013 based on performance in the year ended 31December 2012.
Note this includes the amount invested under theMCIP.
d GSIP awards vesting based on performance in the three-year period to 31 December 2012 based on the share price at grant 18 March 2010.
This amount includes additional shares received in respect of accrued dividends through to 31 December 2012. e The estimated increase in the value of GSIP awards vesting based on performance in the three-year period to 31 December 2012 based on the growth in the share price between the three-month average share price to 31 December 2012 and the share price at grant 18 March 2010.
This amount includes additional shares received in respect of accrued dividends through to 31 December 2012. f For the CEO, this is the hiring-in agreement of a conditional supplemental pension accrual.
Relevant amounts have been translated into using the average exchange rate over the year: 1 0.8107.
The Committee believes that the level of remuneration that can be delivered in the various scenarios is appropriate for the level of performance delivered and the value that would be delivered to shareholders.
70 Report of the Directors Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Elements of remuneration Other benefit entitlements Executive Directors are also provided with death, disability and Fixed elements of remuneration: medical insurance cover and actual tax return preparation costs.
Unilever also paid the CEOs social security obligations in his Base salary country of residence.
Following the introduction of the fixed allowance in 2012, the only AT A GLANCE... pension arrangement that remains for Executive Directors is the CEOs hiring-in agreement of a supplemental pension provision which is conditional on the CEO remaining in employment with Unilever to age 60 and subsequently retiring from active service Salary effective from 1 January 2013: or his death or total disability prior to retirement.
The contribution CEO 1,010,000 3.6% increase from 2012 is capped at 12% of the lower of the CEOs actual base CFO 714,000 0% increase salary and his 2011 base salary 920,000 plus 3% per annum.
Accordingly, the benchmark cap for 2012 was 947,600, with a maximum contribution of 113,712, and for 2013 has been set 2012 outcomes at 976,028, with a maximum contribution of 117,123.
Following a review of the competitive positioning of Executive Directors salaries in 2011, the Boards, on the proposal of the Performance elements of remuneration: Committee, approved a 6% base salary increase for the CEO to 975,200 and a 5% base salary increase for the CFO in respect Annual bonus of 2012 to 714,000.
Given the difficult and uncertain economic circumstances prevailing during early 2012, the implementation of the 2012 base salary increases was deferred until such a point AT A GLANCE... as the Committee considered appropriate.
Base salary increases were made effective from 1 July 2012 and were not backdated.
CEO target 120% of base salary, maximum 200% 2013 review of base salary The Committee reviewed the competitive positioning of Executive Director base salaries in late 2012 in the context of the prevailing CFO target 100% of base salary, maximum 150% economic circumstances and, after giving due consideration to of base salary pay and conditions elsewhere in Unilever, the Boards, on the proposal of the Committee, decided to award Executive Directors base salary increase of 3.6% for the CEO and 0% for the CFO.
For 2012, the Executive Directors annual bonus opportunity was based on Unilevers results referenced against financial targets For 2013, the average salary increase for employees other than set at the beginning of the year as follows: Executive Directors will be approximately 4.4%.
Fixed allowance Underlying Underlying Core operating sales growth volume growth margin AT A GLANCE... 1 3 1 3 improvement 1 3 Fixed allowance for 2013: CEO 250,000 CFO 300,000 The Committee also considers the quality of performance in terms of business results and leadership, including corporate social responsibility and delivery of USLP goals, when In order to simplify the provision of benefits and to increase determining payouts.
transparency, from 2012 the provision of benefits and pension was replaced by a fixed allowance for senior executives at Unilever which is paid in cash.
The level of fixed allowance provided to the CFO will be reduced in the coming years to reflect the phasing-out of his annual housing allowance.
The CFOs allowance for 2013 is 300,000 and at prevailing rates this will be reduced to 260,000 in 2014 and to 220,000 in 2015.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Governance 71 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued 2012 outcomes AT A GLANCE... CEO 1,950,400 100% of maximum, 200% of base salary CFO 1,049,580 98% of maximum, 147% of base salary When determining bonus payments the Committee considers performance against targets, the quality of business performance and the individual performance rating in accordance with our Group-wide performance management system.
Performance against targets: Performance against targets was strong with maximum underlying sales growth and underlying volume growth targets being exceeded, meaning we grew above our markets and outperformed much of the competition.
Core operating margin improvement was close to maximum.
This included a mix of higher-quality margin drivers and a reduction in restructuring charges.
The Committee considered that the CEO had an exceptional year leading the business to deliver outstanding financial performance, strong returns to shareholders and excellent progress towards achieving a number of the goals set under the USLP.
Similarly the Committee considered that the CFO had a strong year, supporting the CEO in delivering this business success.
Taking into account performance against targets, the quality of results and individual contribution, the Committee determined that the CEO should be awarded a bonus of 200% of base salary in respect of 2012 with the CFO being awarded a bonus of 147% of base salary.
2013 bonus policy There will be no change to the Executive Directors annual bonus opportunities for 2013 as set out in the Remuneration Policy table on page 65 and the annual bonus performance metrics will remain the same as for 2012.
MCIP On 18 February 2013, the CEO invested 60% and the CFO invested 25% of their 2012 bonus into MCIP investment shares and received corresponding awards of performance-related MCIP matching AT A GLANCE... shares.
MCIP matching awards are subject to the same performance metrics as GSIP awards see below.
Further information on matching awards is set out on page 78.
Out of their after-tax annual bonus awards, GSIP Executive Directors are required to invest 25% of their gross bonus and may invest up to 60% AT A GLANCE... of their gross bonus in the MCIP They are awarded an equal number of MCIP matching shares Maximum award 200% of base salary for Maximum vesting of 1.5x initial award the CEO and 175% of base salary for CFO Maximum vesting of 2x initial award The MCIP investment is made personally by Executive Directors Maximum vesting of 400% of base salary for from their net after-tax annual bonus.
In the event that their net the CEO and 350% of base salary for the CFO after-tax annual bonus is insufficient to cover full participation in the MCIP at 60%, Executive Directors write Unilever a cheque for This is the current operational maximum.
The maximum pursuant the balance of the shares they purchase.
In return, they receive to the remuneration policy is 178% with maximum vesting of 356% a corresponding award of performance-related matching shares.
of base salary as set out on page 67.
72 Report of the Directors Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 2012 outcomes The performance period for awards granted on 18 March 2010 ran from 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2012.
The award was equally based on the performance metrics outlined in the table below.
Performance against targets: The calculations performed in determining these performance outturns have been subject to an independent report.
In addition to the above targets, the performance metrics for underlying sales growth and core operating margin improvement were required to reach at least the threshold of the performance range for both performance metrics before any shares, subject to either performance condition, were able to vest.
The thresholds for both metrics were met.
The total overall vesting was 109% of target 54.5% of maximum.
The Committee considered the level of vesting in the context of performance against targets, the underlying business performance and performance against key peers and determined that it was appropriate.
2013 awards There will be no change to the Executive Directors GSIP opportunities for 2013 with the target award for the CEO remaining at 200% of base salary and the target award for the CFO remaining at 175% of base salary.
Underlying sales growth Core operating margin Cumulative operating cash Relative total shareholder 25% improvement 25% flow 25% return 25% Both performance conditions must reach threshold performance, before any payout in respect of either measure is made.
For the three business-focused metrics, 25% of target awards vest for achieving threshold performance.
200% of target awards vest 150% under the MCIP for maximum performance.
In addition, the performance metrics for underlying sales growth and core operating margin improvement must reach the threshold of the performance range for both performance metrics before any shares subject to either performance condition vest.
For the relative TSR measure, Unilevers TSR is measured against a comparator group of other consumer goods companies.
TSR measures the return received by a shareholder, capturing both the increase in share price and the value of dividend income assuming dividends are reinvested.
The TSR results are measured on a common currency basis to better reflect the shareholder experience.
The current TSR peer group is as follows: Avon Colgate-Palmolive Heinz Kimberly-Clark Procter & Gamble Beiersdorf Danone Henkel LOral Reckitt Benckiser Campbell Soup General Mills Kao Nestl Shiseido Coca-Cola Este Lauder Kellogg PepsiCo Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Governance 73 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Following the demerger announced by Sara Lee in January 2011, Payments to former Directors the TSR comparator group for all outstanding awards was There have been no payments to former Directors during the year.
adjusted with effect from 1 October 2012 to discontinue their participation and to include Este Lauder as a replacement.
Minimum shareholding requirement The Articles of Association of NV and PLC do not require Following the demerger announced by Kraft in August 2011, Directors of NV or Directors of PLC to hold shares in NV or PLC.
as no suitable comparator could be established, the Committee However, the remuneration arrangements applicable to our considered it appropriate to exclude, and not replace, Kraft from Executive Directors require them to build and retain a personal the TSR comparator group for outstanding awards granted in shareholding in Unilever by the later of 2015 or five years from 2011 and 2012 and for awards granted from 1January 2013. the date of appointment to firmly align their interests with those The TSR comparator group will therefore consist of 19 of Unilevers long-term shareholders as outlined below.
companies with effect from 1 January 2013.
Kraft is included in the comparator group for 2010 awards which vest based On 31 December 2012, the Executive Directors share ownership on performance to 31 December 2012. against guidelines were: Share Actual Unilever TSR performance is therefore compared to the ownership share performance of 19 other companies 20 including Unilever.
guideline Have ownership No shares in the portion of the award subject to TSR vest if as % of guidelines as a % of Unilever is ranked below position 10 in the peer group at the 1 base salary been met?
base salary end of the three-year period, 60% vest if Unilever is ranked 10th which is 53rd percentile performance against the peer group, Paul Polman 400% Yes 1,041% 100% vests if Unilever is ranked 7th and 200% 150% under the Jean-Marc Hut 300% Yes 353% MCIP vests if Unilever is ranked 3rd or above.
Straight-line 1 Includes bonuses invested in shares under the Share Matching Plan vesting occurs between these points.
and the MCIP, including accrued dividends.
Unvested GSIP awards and matching shares under the Share Matching Plan and the MCIP that are Dividend re-investment subject to performance metrics do not count.
Based on 30 day average Both GSIP and MCIP provide that dividends will be re-invested share prices to 31 December 2012. in respect of the conditional shares under award but will only be paid out to the extent that the underlying shares vest.
The other members of the ULE are required to build a shareholding of 300% of base salary.
This requirement is 150% Ultimate remedy of base salary for the top 100 management layer below.
Grants under the GSIP and MCIP are subject to ultimate remedy.
Upon vesting of an award, the Committee shall have Serving as a non-executive on the board of the discretionary power to adjust the value of the award if the another company award, in the Committees opinion taking all circumstances into Executive Directors serving as non-executive directors account, produces an unfair result.
In exercising this discretion on the board of other companies are permitted to retain all the Committee may take into account Unilevers performance remuneration and fees earned from outside directorships against non-financial measures.
The Committee will only subject to a maximum of one outside listed directorship adjust the value of a vesting award upwards after obtaining see outside appointments on page 50 for further details.
Paul Polman is a non-executive director of The Dow Chemical Following a thorough evaluation of performance in respect of Company and received an annual fee of 89,627 US $115,000 awards vesting based on performance to 31 December 2012 the based on the average exchange rate over the year 1 US $1.2831.
Committee considered it appropriate not to exercise its discretion In addition he received a restricted award of 3,150 ordinary shares to adjust awards either upwards or downwards.
with a nominal value of US $2.50 per share in the capital of The Dow Chemical Company.
The shares include the rights to vote Clawback and to receive dividends thereon.
The shares cannot be sold or The Committee is authorised to reclaim or claw back transferred until Paul Polman leaves the board of directors of performance-related payments to Executive Directors in the TheDow Chemical Company, and in any case not earlier than event of a significant downward revision of the financial results 5March 2014.
Jean-Marc Hut was appointed as a non-executive of the Group.
This includes the annual bonus together with any director of Delta Topco Limited on 25 May 2012 and will receive awards that have been made and or vested shares under the a fee of 109,111 US $140,000 in respect of his directorship Share Matching Plan, the GSIP and the MCIP.
Share Matching Plan Prior to their participation in the MCIP, Executive Directors were required to invest 25% of their bonus into shares and hold them for a minimum period of three years under the Share Matching Plan.
The Executive Directors would then receive a corresponding matching award in the form of NV and PLC shares.
The matching shares would normally vest after three years provided the underlying shares have been retained during this period and the Executive Director has not resigned or been dismissed.
The last award made under the Share Matching Plan was made in 2011, relating to the annual bonus earned for 2010, and will vest in March 2014 see page 78 for details.
74 Report of the Directors Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Five-year historical Total Shareholder Return Non-Executive Directors TSR performance The policy for Non-Executive Directors fees is set out on The table below includes: page 69.
There were no fee increases to Non-Executive Director growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over five fee levels for 2013. years FTSE 100 comparison based on 30-trading-day average values: and The Compensation and Management Resources growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 investment over five Committee years AEX comparison based on 30-trading-day average values.
During 2012 the Committee comprised four Non-Executive Directors: Paul Walsh Committee Chairman, Michael Treschow, The Committee has decided to show Unilevers performance Ann Fudge and Kees Storm.
against the FTSE 100 Index, London and also the Euronext 100 index AEX, Amsterdam as these are the most relevant indices The Committee reviewed its Terms of Reference during the year.
in the UK and the Netherlands where we have our principal To recognise its change in scope to include performance evaluation listings.
Unilever is a constituent of both of these indices.
of the ULE and leadership development of the ULE and Senior Corporate Executives it resolved to change its name from the Remuneration Committee to the Compensation and Management Resources Committee with effect from 1 January 2013.
The Committee is concerned with: the remuneration policy for the ULE and senior corporate executives: the remuneration and benefits of the Directors and other members of the ULE: the design and terms of all long-term incentive plans: leadership development, especially of the ULE and senior corporate executives: and performance evaluation of the members of the ULE.
Comparing pay with performance The Committees revised Terms of Reference are contained within The following chart shows a comparison of total pay for the role The Governance of Unilever, and are also set out on our website of CEO and TSR performance of Unilever since Paul Polman was www.
During the year, the Committee reviewed its own effectiveness and concluded that it was broadly operating effectively.
Where appropriate, the Committee agreed steps to enhance its effectiveness.
The first award to the CEO under the GSIP following his appointment was granted in 2008 and vested based on performance to 31 December 2010.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Governance 75 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued The following table provides a summary of the Committees activities during and shortly following the end of the financial year: Meeting Standing agenda items Other agenda items January 2012 Review and approval of performance for 2011 annual bonus Update on shareholder consultation on and 2009 long-term incentives.
Setting targets for 2012 annual bonus and 2012-2014 MCIP and GSIP awards.
Review of draft Directors Remuneration Report.
Approval of ULE reward decisions for 2012.
February 2012 Review of Executive Directors base salary levels.
Update on shareholder consultation on executive remuneration.
Consideration of performance metrics for long-term incentive arrangements.
Review of annual and long-term performance for outstanding plans.
Update on European market trends in executive remuneration and corporate governance.
September 2012 Review of performance metrics for long-term incentive arrangements including review of feedback from shareholders.
October 2012 Review of annual and long-term performance for Consideration of remuneration policy in light of proposed outstanding plans.
Review of benchmarking and initial consideration of base salary increases.
Review of terms of reference.
December 2012 Review of annual and long-term performance for Consideration of remuneration policy in light of proposed outstanding plans.
Preliminary review of targets for 2013 annual bonus Update on Unilever North America Omnibus Equity and 2013-2015 MCIP and GSIP awards.
Review of first draft of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Review of Executive Directors base salaries.
January 2013 Review and approval of performance for 2012 annual and 2010 long-term incentives.
Held following the year end but prior to Setting targets for 2013 annual bonus and 2013-2015 MCIP the finalisation of this and GSIP awards.
Advisers While it is the Committees responsibility to exercise independent judgement, the Committee does request advice from management and professional advisers, as appropriate, to ensure that its decisions are fully informed given the internal and external environment.
The Committee appointed Deloitte LLP to provide independent advice on various matters it considered.
Deloitte were appointed in 2011 following an interview process by the Committee.
During the year, Deloitte also provided specific tax, consultancy and corporate finance services to Unilever.
The Committee is comfortable that the Deloitte LLP engagement partner and team, that provide remuneration advice to the Committee, do not have connections with Unilever NV or Unilever PLC that may impair their independence.
The Committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there were appropriate safeguards against such conflicts.
76 Report of the Directors Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Further details can be found at www.
During the year the Committee also sought input from the Chief Executive Officer Paul Polman, the Chief Human Resources Officer Doug Baillie and the SVP Global Head of Reward Peter Newhouse on various subjects including the remuneration of senior management.
No individual was present when their own remuneration was being discussed to ensure a conflict of interest did not arise.
The Committee also received legal and governance advice from the Group Secretary Tonia Lovell.
Shareholder voting Unilever remains committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue and takes an active interest in voting outcomes.
In the event of a substantial vote against a resolution in relation to Directors remuneration, Unilever would seek to understand the reasons for any such vote and would set out in the following Annual Report and Accounts any actions in response to it.
The following table sets out actual voting in respect of our previous Report: Voting outcome % of votes For Against 2011 Directors Remuneration Report 2012 AGM PLC 93.9% 6.1% 31,530,263 votes were withheld c. 2.5% of share capital.
The Directors Remuneration Report is not subject to a shareholder vote in the Netherlands.
Audited information Executive Directors remuneration in 2012 Remuneration for individual Executive Directors audited Annual emoluments 2012 Base Fixed Value of Share salary allowance benefits Bonus Sub total Pension awards Total Name and base country 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 a b c d e i j Paul Polman UK 1,169 308 332 2,406 4,215 134 3,290 7,639 f g h d i Jean-Marc Hut UK 860 419 46 1,295 2,620 0 2,699 5,319 Total 2012 2,029 727 378 3,701 6,835 134 5,989 12,958 k l m Total 2011 1,840 0 489 2,133 4,462 506 5,640 10,608 a The CEOs base salary was set in sterling at 920,000 per annum from January 2012 to June 2012.
It was increased to 975,200 effective 1 July 2012. b Fixed allowance set in sterling at 250,000 which replaced certain benefits and pension.
The CEO elected to invest part of his fixed allowance into the Unilever international pension plan fund in 2012. c Benefits for medical insurance, tax return preparation and costs of provision for death-in-service benefits and administration.
Also includes payment to protect against the difference between the employee social security obligations in his country of residence versus the UK.
He also received a further payment of 152,505 in 2012 in relation to his social security obligations for 2010 and 2011 following a reconciliation for those years.
This data was previously captured in the Allowances and Other Payments section.
Includes the value of both the cash element and the portion invested in NV and PLC shares under the MCIP.
It does not include matching shares awarded on a conditional basis under the MCIP.
e Conditional supplemental pension provision agreed with the CEO on hiring.
This payment is conditional on the CEO remaining in employment with Unilever to age 60 and subsequently retiring from active service or his death or total disability prior to retirement.
f The CFOs base salary was set in sterling at 680,000 from January 2012 to June 2012.
It was increased to 714,000 effective 1 July 2012. g Fixed allowance set in sterling at 340,000 for 2012 which replaced certain benefits and pension.
h Includes benefits for medical insurance, tax return preparation and costs of provision for death-in-service benefits and administration.
i Costs are non-cash and relate to the expenses following IFRS 2.
This is based on share prices on grant dates, 98% adjustment factor for GSIP and MCIP shares awarded in 2012 and GSIP shares awarded in 2011 and 2010, and 89% adjustment factor for GSIP shares awarded in 2009 to take account of the external performance condition TSR.
j This does not include the one-time Dutch crisis tax charge to which Dutch-based employers like Unilever N. V. are subject of 16% on the portion of employees 2012 salaries exceeding 150,000 from current employment that is taxable in the Netherlands.
This tax charge for Unilever N. V. with respect to the CEO is 112,394. k Value of benefits in 2011 also included an allowance in lieu of company car, private use of chauffeur-driven car, entertaining allowance and, for the CFO, an annual housing and educational allowance, but excluded death-in-service benefits.
l Pension in 2011 also included company contributions towards defined contribution pension plans and death-in-service benefits.
m Total 2011 split Paul Polman 6,661m and Jean-Marc Hut 3,947m.
Amounts have been translated into euros using the average exchange rate over the year: 1 0.8107 2011: 1 0.8692.
We do not grant our Executive Directors any personal loans or guarantees.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Governance 77 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Pensions audited Paul Polman The total pension cost including death-in-service benefits and administration costs and the companys conditional supplemental pension provision was 264,000.
This total pension cost breaks down as follows: Paul Polman elected to allocate some of his fixed allowance to his pension.
The company therefore contributed 82,000 of the fixed allowance into his own defined contribution pension plan.
Paul Polman also elected to sacrifice some of his salary to make an additional pension contribution.
The company therefore contributed 16,000 in to the defined contribution pension plan this amount was deducted from the salary figure reported in the Remuneration for individual Executive Directors table above.
The additional accrual for Paul Polmans conditional supplemental pension, which is conditional on the CEO remaining in employment with Unilever to age 60 and subsequently retiring from active service or his death or total disability prior to retirement, was 134,000.
The cost of the provision of death-in-service benefits and administration was 32,000.
Jean-Marc Hut Jean-Marc Hut did not elect to allocate any of his fixed allowance to his pension.
The total cost of his death-in-service benefit was15,000.
Amounts have been translated into euros using the closing exchange rate for 2011: 1 0.8386.
Share Matching Plan audited Balance of Conditional Balance of conditional shares at shares vested conditional shares at a 1 January 2012 in 2012 31 December 2012 Share type No.
of shares Price at award No.
of shares b Paul Polman NV 22,829 3,413 25.99 19,416 b PLC 22,829 3,413 20.89 19,416 c Jean-Marc Hut NV 5,047 5,047 c PLC 5,047 5,047 a Each award of matching shares is conditional and vests three years after the date of the award subject to continued employment and maintenance of the underlying bonus shares.
The Committee considers that there is no need for further performance conditions on the vesting of the matching shares because the number of shares is directly linked to the annual bonus which is itself subject to demanding performance conditions.
In addition, during the vesting period the share price of NV and PLC is influenced by the performance of Unilever.
The shares vested on 19 March 2012. b Of which 9,484 shares awarded on 18 March 2010 and 9,932 on 14 March 2011. c Awarded on 14 March 2011.
Management Co-Investment Plan audited Balance of Conditional Balance of conditional shares shares awarded conditional shares at a at 1January 2012 in 2012 31 December 2012 Performance Dividend period shares 1 January 2012 accrued to 31December Price at during the b Share type Original award 2014 award year Paul Polman NV 17,772 25.62 641 18,413 PLC 17,772 20.63 706 18,478 Jean-Marc Hut NV 3,649 25.62 132 3,781 PLC 3,649 20.63 145 3,794 a Each award of conditional matching shares vests three years after the date of the award, subject to performance conditions based on underlying sales growth, core operating margin improvement, cumulative operating cash flow and relative total shareholder return further details can be found on page 73.
Awards are all subject to continued employment and maintenance of the underlying investment shares.
On 17 February 2012, the grant date, Paul Polman and Jean-Marc Hut invested in the MCIP 60% and 25% respectively of their annual bonus earned during 2011 and paid in 2012. b Reflects reinvested dividend equivalents accrued during 2012 and subject to the same performance conditions as the underlying matching shares.
78 Report of the Directors Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Global Share Incentive Plan audited The following conditional shares were granted during 2012 and outstanding at 31 December 2012 under the Global Share Incentive Plan: Balance of Conditional Balance of conditional shares shares awarded conditional shares at a at 1January 2012 in 2012 31 December 2012 Performance Dividend period 1 January shares 2012 to accrued Vested 31December Price at during the in Lapsed Price at c d Share type Original award 2014 award year 2012 in 2012 vesting No.
of shares b Paul Polman NV 164,915 38,676 25.62 4,845 60,213 8,997 25.99 139,226 b PLC 165,518 38,676 20.63 5,365 60,213 8,997 20.89 140,349 c Jean-Marc Hut NV 66,639 29,798 25.62 3,475 99,912 c PLC 67,058 29,798 20.63 3,850 100,706 a Each award of conditional shares vests three years after the date of the award, subject to performance conditions based on underlying sales growth, core operating margin improvement, cumulative operating cash flow and relative total shareholder return further details can be found on page 73.
The 2012 award was made at grant date 17 February 2012. b This includes a grant of 69,210 of each of Unilever NV and PLC shares made on 19 March 2009, a grant of 44,137 of each of Unilever NV and PLC shares made on 18 March 2010, a grant of 47,173 of each of Unilever NV and PLC shares made on 14 March 2011 and 4,395 Unilever NV dividend shares and 4,998 Unilever PLC dividend shares accrued in prior years.
The first grant vested on 19 March 2012, and the second and third grant will vest on 18 March 2013 and 14 March 2014 respectively.
c This includes a grant of 30,906 of each of Unilever NV and PLC shares made on 18 March 2010, a grant of 32,665 of each of Unilever NV and PLC shares made on 14 March 2011 and 3,068 Unilever NV dividend shares and 3,487 Unilever PLC dividend shares accrued in prior years.
The first and second grant will vest on 18 March 2013 and 14 March 2014 respectively.
Restricted Stock audited Jean-Marc Hut received a one-off restricted stock award on joining Unilever under the GSIP.
Details of balances and vesting during 2012 are shown below.
Balance of Balance of shares at shares at 1 January 2012 Vesting in 2012 31 December 2012 Share type No.
of shares Price at vesting No.
The final 1 3 of the original award will vest on 18 March 2013.
Share Save Plan audited The Share Save Plan is an HMRC-approved all-employee savings-related share option scheme under which employees can save up to a limit of 250 per month with an option to buy Unilever PLC shares at the end of a five-year vesting subject to continued employment.
Balance of Balance of options at Granted options at First Final a Share type 1 January 2012 in 2012 31 December 2012 exercisable date expiry date Paul Polman PLC 1,042 1,042 01 10 2014 01 04 2015 a Option price at grant was 14.92.
1 The highest and lowest share price per ordinary PLC 3 p share during the year were 24.29 and 19.94 and the market price per 9 1 ordinary PLC 3 p share at year end was 23.66.
9 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Governance 79 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Executive Directors interests in shares audited a b b Share type Shares held at 1 January 2012 Shares held at 31 December 2012 Paul Polman NV 173,401 234,291 PLC 131,481 192,371 Jean-Marc Hut NV 38,769 52,921 PLC 38,769 52,921 a 1 NV shares are ordinary 0.16 shares and PLC shares are ordinary 3 p shares.
9 b Numbers exclude awards and options over shares which are disclosed above.
The table shows the interest in NV and PLC ordinary shares of Executive Directors and their connected persons as at 31 December 2012.
On 18 February 2013 Paul Polman and Jean-Marc Hut invested 60% and 25% respectively of their annual bonus earned in 2012 and paid in 2013 in the MCIP.
This resulted in 22,999 NV and 22,999 PLC investment shares for Paul Polman and 5,157 NV and 5,157 PLC investment shares for Jean-Marc Hut.
They each received a corresponding award of performance-related NV and PLC shares under the terms of the MCIP.
The voting rights of the Directors who hold interests in the share capital of NV and PLC are the same as for other holders of the class of shares indicated.
None of the Directors Executive and Non-Executive or other executive officers shareholdings amounts to more than 1% of the issued shares in that class of share.
Except as stated above, all shareholdings are beneficial.
Non-Executive Directors remuneration in 2012 audited Total fees Total fees paid in paid in a 2012 2011 Non-Executive Directors 000 000 b c Michael Treschow 659 635 Louise Fresco 108 87 Ann Fudge 139 113 Charles Golden 133 113 d Byron Grote 128 87 Sunil Bharti Mittal 96 59 Hixonia Nyasulu 127 113 e Kees Storm 203 160 f Sir Malcolm Rifkind 119 97 g Paul Walsh 143 94 Former Director h Jeroen van der Veer 75 Total 1,855 1,633 a Covers fees received from both NV in euros and PLC in sterling.
Includes basic Non-Executive fee and committee chairmanship and or membership.
In moving to the new modular fee structure on 1 January 2012, the intercontinental travel allowance was discontinued.
Ann Fudge, Charles Golden and Hixonia Nyasulu received a one-time payment of 10,000 each to compensate for the removal of this allowance.
c This does not include the one-time Dutch crisis tax charge to which Dutch-based companies like Unilever N. V. are subject to of 16% on the portion of directors 2012 fees exceeding 150,000 from current appointment that is taxable in the Netherlands.
The tax charge for Unilever N. V. with respect to the Chairman is 26,751. d Chairman of Audit Committee.
f Chairman of Corporate Responsibility Committee.
g Chairman of Compensation and Management Resources Committee & Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
We do not grant our Non-Executive Directors any personal loans or guarantees.
80 Report of the Directors Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Non-Executive Directors interests in share capital audited Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to build up their personal holding of Unilever shares to at least one-times their annual fees over the five years from 1 January 2012 or appointment if later to ensure alignment with shareholders interests.
9 The table shows the interests in NV and PLC ordinary shares of Non-Executive Directors and their connected persons as at 31December 2012.
There has been no change in these interests between 31 December 2012 and 4 March 2013.
This Directors Remuneration Report has been approved by the Boards and signed on their behalf by Tonia Lovell Group Secretary.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Governance 81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Contents Statement of Directors responsibilities 83 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Independent auditors reports 84 15 Capital and funding 112 15A Share capital 113 Consolidated income statement 86 15B Equity 114 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 87 15C Financial liabilities 115 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 87 16 T reasury risk management 116 16A Management of liquidity risk 116 Consolidated balance sheet 88 16B Management of market risk 118 Consolidated cash flow statement 89 16C Derivatives and hedging 120 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 90 17 Investment and return 121 17A Financial assets 122 1 Accounting information and policies 90 17B Credit risk 122 2 Segment information 92 18 Financial instruments fair value risk 123 3 Gross profit and operating costs 94 19 Provisions 124 4 Employees 95 20 Commitments and contingent liabilities 125 4A Staff and management costs 95 4B Pensions and similar obligations 95 21 Acquisitions and disposals 126 4C Share-based compensation plans 101 22 Assets and liabilities held for sale 128 5 Net finance costs 102 23 Related party transactions 128 6 Taxation 102 24 Remuneration of auditors 129 6A Income tax 102 6B Deferred tax 103 25 Events after the balance sheet date 129 6C Tax on other comprehensive income 104 26 Principal group companies and non-current investments 130 7 Combined earnings per share 105 Independent auditors report Unilever N. V. 132 8 Dividends on ordinary capital 105 Company accounts Unilever N. V. 133 9 Goodwill and intangible assets 106 Notes to the Company accounts Unilever N. V. 134 10 Property, plant and equipment 107 Further statutory and other information Unilever N. V. 137 11 Other non-current assets 109 Independent auditors report Unilever PLC 138 12 Inventories 110 Company accounts Unilever PLC 139 13 Trade and other current receivables 110 Notes to the Company accounts Unilever PLC 140 14 Trade payables and other liabilities 111 Further statutory and other information Unilever PLC 142 Shareholder information 144 82 Financial statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012
