Governance 73 Remuneration Report Letter from the Remuneration Committees chairman Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committees annual report on directors remuneration.
Before presenting my first report to shareholders, I would like to thank my predecessor, Sir Peter Williams, for his commitment to the Committee during his tenure as its chairman.
His leadership provided a strong focus and balance for the Committee which I hope to continue and develop over time with the support of my colleagues.
The content of this report has been refreshed to provide investors with greater transparency of our remuneration structure, making it clearer how performance is rewarded and aligned with strategy.
As chairman of the Committee I am very mindful of the increased focus on the subject of executive remuneration, from investors, governments and the public.
The announcement earlier this year of proposed changes to remuneration reporting and governance in the UK, together with recent shareholder voting on remuneration reports, confirm the importance of the Committees role in ensuring that directors pay is aligned to investors interests and appropriately linked to performance.
Looking back over the past year, the Group has delivered good results in the last twelve months despite the challenging economic environment.
As set out in last years report to shareholders, the Committee has undertaken a comprehensive review of remuneration during the year.
We have made no significant changes to remuneration since 2006, and we undertook this exercise starting from first principles.
The Committee sought to ensure that the new framework fully supports the implementation of our strategy following the appointment of our new chief executive officer during 2011.
In summary, we believe the proposed changes are right for Atkins because they: s improve strategic alignment s provide the right balance between short and long term incentives s align senior management remuneration with that of the executive directors s recognise that we operate a people business, where reward and incentive structure is critical to our success s achieve this whilst not increasing quantum for executive directors.
The proposed structure for executive directors includes: s leaving salaries unchanged s an increase in the proportion of annual bonus based on measurable individual strategic objectives, from 10% to 25%, subject to meeting a threshold level of financial performance, to reect the importance of reshaping our business in line with our renewed strategy s long term performance measures based on absolute earnings per share EPS growth and long term sustainable share price growth, which are considered to be the measures best aligned with Atkins success s introducing a new plan the Long-term Growth Unit plan which will be based on sustained long term share price performance with extended four, five and six year time horizons s introducing malus provisions across all our executive share plans, in line with best practice and the interests of our shareholders.
These changes are set out in more detail in this report and have been the subject of an extensive consultation and dialogue with key shareholders and representative bodies, whose feedback was important in nalising the framework set out in this report.
I would like to take the opportunity to thank shareholders for their engagement in the process and welcome the broad support we have received for our proposals to date.
We will put elements of the proposed changes to our remuneration structure to shareholders at the forthcoming annual general meeting, along with a resolution to vote for this remuneration report.
I very much hope you will support the proposals and the report.
Dr Raj Rajagopal Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 13 June 2012 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance 74 Governance The Remuneration Remuneration Report Committees terms continued of reference may be viewed at: www.
com investors tor The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is a committee of the Board.
Its terms of reference are available on the Companys website: www.
com or on request from the company secretary.
The Committee has responsibility for setting remuneration policy and structure for the Companys chairman and executive directors.
The Committee also has oversight of remuneration practice across the Group, including the senior leadership team.
Committee membership The independent non-executive directors who served on the Committee during the year are shown in table 1.
Table 1: Members of the Committee during the year Member From To Admiral the Lord Boyce 5 May 2004 To date Fiona Clutterbuck 15 June 2009 To date Raj Rajagopal chairman from 8 September 2011 1 March 2009 To date Rodney Slater 9 September 2011 To date Sir Peter Williams chairman to 8 September 2011 6 May 2005 30 June 2011 The Committee met nine times during the year 2011: seven.
The number of meetings was greater than last year as a result of the Committees comprehensive review of remuneration.
Details of the attendance of members at meetings can be found in the Corporate Governance Report page 67.
The Board believes that the members of the Committee bring diversity of thought and perspective to the deliberations surrounding remuneration matters, with a range of views drawing on insights into both public and private sectors.
Committee meetings are attended by the Group HR director, Alun Grifths.
The chairman, Allan Cook, and the chief executive officer, Uwe Krueger, also attend meetings at the discretion of the Committee chairman.
The company secretary, Richard Webster, acts as secretary to the Committee.
No director or other attendee, including the company secretary, participates in discussions regarding their own remuneration.
Advisors to the Committee Before commencing the review of executive remuneration, the Committee undertook a detailed tender process for the provision of advisory services.
As a result of this process, the Committee appointed Deloitte LLP Deloitte as the provider of advice on remuneration policy and structure, replacing New Bridge Street Consultants NBSC.
Deloitte subsequently supported the executive remuneration review.
During the year, the Committee received independent advice from NBSC, a brand of Aon Hewitt Limited Aon Hewitt, and Deloitte on remuneration policy and structure.
NBSC and, subsequently, Deloitte also monitored the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance.
None of NBSC, Aon Hewitt or Deloitte provided any other material services to the Group.
Linklaters LLP and Tapestry LLP provided legal advice with respect to share plans.
The Committee also consulted the chief executive officer, the Group HR director and the company secretary regarding remuneration policy.
Committee activities The Committee has a schedule of standing agenda items that aligns to the reward communication programme for all employees within the Group.
This schedule commences with the conrmation of remuneration for the year ahead advised to employees in April each year, followed by notication of their bonuses for the prior financial year following the announcement of the Groups preliminary results in June.
In addition, the Committee discusses remuneration policy and market practice throughout the year.
This year the Committee spent a significant time at its meetings discussing and debating the changes to remuneration as part of the review process.
The key matters discussed during the year included: WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance 75 Further information on strategy is given in Our Strategy Our Strategy.
Pages 10-13 Theme Agenda items Best practice s Consideration of latest remuneration best practice guidance s Review and appointment of remuneration advisors to the Committee Remuneration s First principles review of executive remuneration including link to strategy, objectives of the long term review incentive, short term and long term incentive structure, performance measures and time horizons Directors s Consideration and approval of bonus scheme payments to the executive directors for 2010 11 and company s Consideration of executive directors salaries secretarys s Approval of executive directors personal key performance targets in connection with the bonuses remuneration for 2011 12 s Consideration and approval of the chairmans remuneration s Consideration and approval of remuneration, bonus principles and quantum for the executive directors and company secretary for 2012 13 Employee s Reward policy for the Group remuneration s Review of bonus scheme payments to the chief executive ofcers direct reports in light of wider including senior remuneration of Group staff for 2010 11 management s Review of bonus arrangements for staff in the acquired North American business to aid retention and encourage alignment of interests with those of shareholders s Review of proposed remuneration and bonus opportunity for the senior leadership team for 2012 13 in light of remuneration and bonus opportunities throughout the Group and within its businesses and regions Share plans s Consideration and approval of performance condition outturn in respect of LTIP awards made during 2008 s Review of share plan hedging arrangements and dilution s Consideration and approval of LTIP and DSP awards s Performance monitoring of LTIP awards s Consideration of the introduction of malus provisions s Consideration of the introduction of a UK Save As You Earn all-employee share plan, a US stock purchase plan and equivalent share plans outside the UK US s Approval of non-material share plan rule changes s Approval of share plan policy Pensions s Implementation of the UK pension strategy and its impact Reporting s Consideration and approval of the remuneration report for 2011 Remuneration policy and structure Alignment with our strategy During the year, the Committee carried out a comprehensive review of the executive remuneration framework.
The principal aim of this review was to improve the alignment of remuneration with strategy.
Following Uwe Kruegers appointment as chief executive officer in August 2011, he confirmed our strategic direction to deliver long term shareholder value through a focus on core growth sectors in engineering and design.
As set out in Our Strategy pages 10 to 13, this strategy has three principal priorities over the medium term: s operational excellence s portfolio optimisation s sector focus.
The overall objective of our strategy is to create shareholder value through: s driving margins above 8% s reducing dependence on the UK with our long term aspiration being to have more than 75% of our business outside the UK s growing organically and through acquisition.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance 76 Governance Remuneration Report continued The Committees review started from first principles, recognising that the previous framework had operated for a number of years.
It considered what was appropriate for our business and the markets in which we operate, taking into account the key principles of good corporate governance.
This led to the formulation of the following key themes, from which the framework was developed: s as a people business, the remuneration framework must incentivise and retain the right people s the framework must be based on simple principles with clear line of sight for participants and alignment with shareholders s remuneration should be aligned with strategy, with any changes seeking to improve this alignment, not increase quantum s a significant portion of the package should be performance related on both a short and long term basis and delivered in the form of Atkins shares s growth in earnings per share EPS is a key metric for measuring the performance of our business and should be balanced with a focus on long term share price growth and performance against strategic objectives.
Key changes for 2012 Following this review, the key changes to the framework for 2012 are: s no change to salaries or incentive opportunities s an increase in the proportion of the annual bonus based on individual performance against strategic objectives from 10% to 25% to incentivise and reward actions taken to reshape our business in line with the stated strategy s a reduction in the size of annual Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards from 100% to 75% of salary.
Awards will be based on stretching EPS targets, requiring growth of 12% per annum for maximum vesting s the introduction of a new share plan, the Long-term Growth Unit LGU plan, focussed on sustained share price growth over four, five and six years s the introduction of malus provisions across all our executive share plans.
As part of the review we undertook an extensive consultation with key shareholders and representative bodies, whose feedback was important to shaping the new framework.
We welcome the broad support we have received for our proposals from our major shareholders.
Following the review we are seeking approval by shareholders at the 2012 Annual General Meeting AGM for both the new LGU plan and the LTIP.
Figures 1 a, 1 b and 1 c illustrate the key elements of xed and variable remuneration, an analysis of the remuneration package, and indicative timelines for executive director remuneration under the proposed framework.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance 77 Figure 1 a : Key remuneration elements for executive directors for 2012 Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration Market competitive xed Short term Long term remuneration to attract Executive Bonus Scheme LTIP 3 years LGU 4-6 years talent and reect skills and experience To incentivise and reward Our primary long term To provide direct alignment the delivery of annual incentive is designed to with shareholders through financial performance and incentivise and reward sustained share price key strategic objectives the creation of long term growth over the long term shareholder value based on the delivery of growth in EPS over a three year period Base salary s Up to 125% of salary for s Annual awards of shares s Annual awards of s Monthly in arrears the chief executive officer with a value of 75% of units with a face value s Cash and 100% of salary for base salary of 50% of base salary s Reviewed annually other executive directors s Based on EPS growth over s Delivers value based s Two thirds cash a three year period: 25% on sustained growth Pension s One third deferred into vests for growth of 5% in average share price s Monthly payments into shares for three years, with per annum, full vesting s Vests in three equal dened contribution plan dividend accrual, subject for 12% per annum tranches after four, or cash allowance in lieu to malus provisions s Operation of safeguards in five and six years s Up to 25% of salary s 75% based on Group relation to cash conversion s No more than 50% financial performance of earnings, acquisitions of any award can be Other xed benets s 25% based on individual and ination exercised in any For example: strategic measures s Dividend accrual 12 month rolling period s Car or allowance subject to threshold s Subject to malus provisions s Subject to a financial s Life assurance financial performance underpin s Medical insurance s Subject to malus provisions s Income protection Shareholding guideline s Equal to 100% of base salary Figure 1 b : Analysis of remuneration package The following chart shows the balance of the package for the chief executive officer, highlighting the significant proportion of the package which is performance related.
The composition of the package is shown for two indicative levels of performance Target and Stretch taking into account an assumed level of vesting and share price performance over the vesting period.
Target Stretch 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Salary Bonus cash Bonus deferred shares LTIP LGUs WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance 78 Governance Remuneration Report continued Figure 1 c : Timeline for receipt of remuneration earned awarded in relation to the year ending 31 March 2013 Current year Y Y 1 Y 2 Y 3 Y 4 Y 5 Y 6 Element of remuneration 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 2017 18 2018 19 Salary 100% cash Pension and benets 100% Performance 2 3 paid Deferred Bonus 1 3 deferred for three years assessed in cash shares vest Award LTIP Award made Performance period EPS vests Tranche 1 1 3 vests Tranche 2 LGU Award made 1 3 vests Tranche 3 1 3 vests Remuneration in the context of the wider Group As a people business our reward and incentive structure is critical to the success of our business.
The principles that underpin our executive remuneration philosophy also cascade throughout the organisation.
Participation in the success of the Group, both through bonus arrangements and, for the senior leadership team, through long term share-based awards, is a cornerstone of our remuneration framework.
The Committee regularly reviews the remuneration of staff throughout the Group to ensure that it is attuned to general pay and conditions when considering the remuneration of executives.
For the current financial year the ratio between the salary of the chief executive officer and the average wage within the Group was approximately 13:1.
For the year ending 31 March 2013, the average salary increase across the Group was approximately 3% compared to 0% for the executive directors.
The executive remuneration framework set out in this report will also apply to the senior leadership team below the Companys board to ensure our executive team is rewarded on a consistent basis.
The Committee also recognises the importance of having reward structures that create a sense of ownership and participation in the long term growth of our shares.
Around 1,050 Group employees participate in some form of share-based incentive arrangement.
In addition, at the 2012 AGM, we are seeking approval for new all-employee share plans in the UK, the US and other major jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Remuneration received by executive directors during the year ended 31 March 2012 Table 2 summarises amounts earned by the current executive directors in respect of the year ended 31 March 2012.
Table 2: Total remuneration for the financial year ended 31 March 2012 Uwe Krueger Heath Drewett Alun Grifths 000 1 Element Value shown 000 000 pro rata Salary Salary received in the year 312.0 227.0 440.0 Benets Value of benets in respect of the year 15.3 15.7 41.9 Annual Value of total bonus cash and shares earned bonus in respect of the year 227.7 163.5 394.9 Vested LTIP Vested value of 2009 LTIP award, the performance period for which ended in the year n a Pension Cash value of dened contribution or cash allowance in lieu 78.0 24.3 110.0 Total 633.0 430.5 986.8 1.
Uwe Krueger was appointed as a director on 14 June 2011.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance 79 Further information about reward within the Group is given in our Human Resources Review Human Resources Review.
Pages 48 and 49 Fixed elements of reward Salary Purpose s Market competitive xed remuneration to attract talent and reect skills and experience Delivery s Monthly s Cash Policy s Reviewed annually with changes normally effective from 1 April and further reviews following changes in responsibilities s Benchmarked against published salary data for companies of similar size and complexity, bespoke comparator groups as appropriate, and for those below Board level local market surveys to ensure that salaries remain market competitive s Considered in light of the economic climate, market conditions, Company performance, pay and conditions across the wider workforce, the individuals role and the level of salary awards in the rest of the business There will be no change to executive directors salaries for the financial year ending 31 March 2013.
The Committee believes executive director salaries are in line with companies of a similar size and complexity based on a benchmarking exercise undertaken as part of the review of the remuneration framework.
The salaries of the executive directors for the forthcoming financial year and for the previous year are shown in table 3.
Table 3: Executive director salaries Salary from Salary from 1 April 2011 Increase in salary Name 1 April 2012 or on appointment from prior year Heath Drewett 312,000 312,000 0% Alun Grifths 227,000 227,000 0% Uwe Krueger 550,000 550,000 0% Pension Purpose s Market competitive xed remuneration to attract talent and reect skills and experience Delivery s Dened benefit entitlements, closed to future accrual from 30 September 2007 and link to final salary broken with effect from 1 February 2012 s Monthly payments into dened contribution pension plan or cash allowance in lieu of pension contribution Policy s Dened contribution pension or cash allowance No changes were made to the pension benets provided to executive directors as a result of the remuneration review.
Dened contribution pension contributions or a cash allowance in lieu of pension contribution for the executive directors are shown in table 4.
Table 4: Dened contribution pension contribution or cash allowance Name Pension contribution as a % of salary Heath Drewett 25 Alun Grifths 12 Uwe Krueger 25 Alun Grifths retains an entitlement to a dened benefit pension on the same basis as other long serving UK employees.
During the year a consultation was held with staff with a dened benefit pension entitlement to remove the link to final salary via amendment to their contracts of employment.
From 1 February 2012 this final salary link has been removed and transitional relief will be paid to all employees including Alun Grifths affected by the contractual change.
The transitional relief is 2% of salary until 2015 and a further 3% for 2015 to 2018.
This is in addition to the Company contribution of 10% of salary.
The maximum company contribution to other UK based staff is also 10% of salary, except those affected by the removal of the link to final salary.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance 80 Governance Remuneration Report continued The contributions made to a pension plan on behalf of the executive directors during the year ended 31 March 2012 are set out in table 16 page 91.
Alun Grifths dened benefit pension entitlements are set out in table 17 page 91.
Other xed benets The Company provides a number of other xed benets to ensure that this element of the remuneration package of the executive directors is competitive with those provided by other organisations.
Details of these benets are shown in table 5.
Table 5: Other xed benets benefit Details Car An annual cash car allowance or a car Life assurance Ranging between four and seven times salary Medical insurance Each executive director receives private medical insurance or an allowance for themselves and their family Income protection Income protection in the event that executives are unable to work due to long-term ill health Travel allowance Uwe Krueger receives an aggregate allowance for travel expenses incurred between his home and the and professional UK during the first five years following appointment a direct replacement for the rental allowance disclosed advice allowance last year and an allowance for the provision to him of professional advice Variable elements of reward Annual bonus Purpose s To incentivise and reward the delivery of stretching annual financial performance and key strategic objectives Delivery s Annual award s Two thirds in cash s One third deferred into shares for three years s Dividend equivalent payment on deferred share award Policy s Total bonus opportunity of 125% of salary for the chief executive officer and 100% of salary for other executive directors s 75% of the total bonus is based on achieving a Group financial target based on profit after tax s 25% of the total bonus is based on individual objectives directly linked to our strategic priorities.
Any amounts due on this component are also subject to achieving the threshold Group financial target s Deferred shares awarded in respect of the financial year ending 31 March 2013 will be subject to malus provisions s Non-pensionable and non-contractual s The Committee may override the achievement of individual and Group targets if there has been a material quality, safety or environmental failure Annual bonus payments via our Executive Bonus Scheme EBS reward in-year performance.
Executive directors are required to defer one third of any bonus they receive in the form of an award of shares under the terms of the Atkins Deferred Share Plan DSP.
The DSP: s provides a direct link to the Companys share price and dividend performance s seeks to aid retention, as awards are subject to forfeiture on resignation within three years of grant.
For awards in respect of the financial year ending 31 March 2013, the deferred shares will be subject to malus provisions which allow the Committee to reduce deferred awards in certain circumstances, as described in more detail later in this report page 86.
Bonus framework for 2012 13 For the financial year ending 31 March 2013, 75% of the bonus for executive directors will be based on Group profit after tax performance.
50% of the maximum will be paid for meeting the budgeted profit after tax target and 100% for meeting a stretch target.
The stretch target is set annually by the Committee at a level which is considered to be very challenging.
In reaching a decision on the stretch target, the Committee is also mindful of the need to deliver shareholder value after payment of bonuses.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance 81 The remaining 25% will be based on individual objectives aligned to areas which underpin our strategic priorities as we reshape our business and our portfolio over the coming years.
For the year ending 31 March 2013, objectives have been set in relation to the following key strategic areas which relate to the specic role of each executive director.
Name Strategic areas included in 2012 13 bonus framework Heath Drewett s Capital efficiency and capacity s Project reporting and risk management Alun Grifths s International resourcing s Senior staff development, talent management and diversity Uwe Krueger s Implementation of the Companys growth strategy s Raising the prole and recognition of the Group s Senior staff development, talent management and diversity The above provides the headline strategic areas under which performance targets have been set.
The performance targets that apply to these areas are measurable, challenging and subject to rigorous review by the Committee, both at the time they are set, during the year and at the year end when performance is assessed.
Subject to commercial sensitivity, we intend to provide an overview of the Committees assessment of performance against the underlying target in next years report.
Executive directors will only receive bonus payments in relation to the achievement of their individual objectives if the threshold Group financial performance target is also met.
Bonus assessment for 2011 12 The Committees assessment of performance in the financial year ended 31 March 2012 is shown in table 6.
Table 6: Assessment of performance and bonus payout Component Overview of performance in 2011 12 Group financial As explained in the chairmans statement pages 6 to 7, the Company has delivered good results in the last target 90% twelve months despite the challenging economic environment and this is reected in bonus payments.
The reported profit after tax of 106.8m was above budget and met the full stretch target.
However, the Committee in making its bonus determination adjusted this gure principally to exclude the one off gain arising from the implementation of the Groups pension strategy and the profit on disposal of the UK asset management business.
As a result, the Committee determined that 70% of the financial target had been achieved.
The Committee considered quality, safety and environmental performance when making the bonus awards and determined that no adjustment was necessary.
Individual Heath Drewett performance Payment of 100% achieved following the successful implementation of the Companys investor relations 10% programme: improvements to the Groups cash management processes, progress in implementing the overhead cost saving programme and the implementation of the strategic plan.
Alun Grifths Payment of 90% achieved for the development of a comprehensive succession plan for the Groups senior leadership: implementation of a global mobility and recruitment programme: the development and implementation of a revised remuneration framework and the implementation of the strategic plan.
Uwe Krueger Payment of 90% achieved for the development of the Groups strategic plan, the development of a comprehensive succession plan for the Groups senior leadership and the successful delivery of significant changes to the Companys investor relations programme.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance 82 Governance Remuneration Report continued Annual bonuses payable to the executive directors for the financial year ended 31 March 2012 are shown in table 7.
Two thirds will be paid in cash and one third deferred into shares for three years.
Uwe Kruegers bonus opportunity was pro-rated to reect his appointment with effect from 14 June 2011.
Keith Clarke was also eligible for an annual bonus in respect of both his period of service prior to retiring as a Company director on 31 July 2011 and his period of service following his retirement from the Board of directors.
This is discussed in a separate section later in this report page 86 and shown in table 16 page 91.
Other senior management will receive a bonus payment through the EBS, reecting achievement against a combination of targets comprising Group financial performance, business financial performance and personal objectives.
These employees are also required to defer one third of this bonus into a share award granted under the terms of the DSP, in line with the requirement for executive directors.
In addition, around 30% of other Group employees will receive a discretionary cash bonus based on individual performance, for which there is no deferral.
Long term incentives The Committee carefully considered long term incentives during the review.
The Committee concluded that the long term incentive framework should provide an element of reward that acts as an incentive to management to deliver long term performance and that it should be built around two performance measures, both of which are simple in design and fundamentally aligned to the creation of shareholder value, as illustrated in gure 2: s Growth in EPS.
This was identied as the primary metric for measuring the delivery of our growth objective over the medium to long term s Sustained growth in the share price.
This ensures alignment between executive reward and sustained share price growth over the long term, representing the ultimate measure of performance for our shareholders.
On this basis, the Committee has developed a long term incentive framework which includes two components: s LTIP.
Awards over Atkins shares which vest after three years subject to EPS performance.
This will be our primary long term incentive vehicle, reecting the importance of EPS growth to our strategy s LGU.
Awards of units which deliver value based on a sustained increase in the Atkins share price over a long term horizon.
We will be seeking shareholder approval for both plans at the 2012 AGM.
Figure 2: Long term incentive framework Performance measure EPS Share price growth Delivery mechanism LTIP LGU Vesting period 3 years 4, 5 and 6 years WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance 83 The key changes to the long term incentive framework for the year ending 31 March 2013 compared to previous years are as follows: s A rebalancing of the package with no overall increase to quantum.
This involves a reduction in the LTIP award level from 100% to 75% of salary, to be replaced by an LGU award with broadly equivalent value s The LTIP award will be based solely on EPS growth rather than a split between EPS and relative TSR.
This reects the importance of EPS as a performance metric and the Committees view that relative TSR is not appropriate for our business given the difficulties in determining a fair and appropriate group of listed peers, and the arbitrary outcomes that can arise when using a broad index, due to cyclical factors s To ensure a component of the long term incentive remains based on long term share price performance, the LGU plan, which is focused on sustained share price growth over four, five and six years, has been developed s New absolute EPS targets have been determined.
The Committee considers that these are appropriately stretching in the current environment.
The link to the UK Retail Prices Index has been removed to reect the Groups international focus, and the level of threshold vesting under the LTIP has been reduced from 30% to 25%.
The EPS targets will be subject to additional safeguard checks relating to cash conversion, acquisitions and ination s The introduction of malus provisions into all executive share plans, as described later in this report page 86.
Potential value of 2012 long term incentive awards Table 8 shows the potential value of the long term incentive awards to be made to executive directors in 2012, including both LTIP and LGU awards, under four indicative share price and EPS growth performance scenarios.
1 2 Table 8: Potential value of 2012 long term incentive awards LTIP and LGU As % Heath Drewett Alun Grifths Uwe Krueger Share price EPS growth scenario Component of salary 000 000 000 0% per annum LTIP 0 0 0 0 LGU0000 5% per annum LTIP 24 75 54 132 LGU 14 43 31 76 10% per annum LTIP 86 269 196 474 LGU 31 96 70 169 15% per annum LTIP 125 389 283 686 LGU 51 160 116 282 1.
Value calculated at the end of the vesting period taking into account share price growth in each scenario LTIP 3 years: LGU three tranches over 4, 5 and 6 years.
LTIP value includes assumed value of dividend equivalents over the period.
The LTIP and LGU are explained in more detail below.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Purpose s Our primary long term incentive is designed to incentivise and reward the creation of long term shareholder value based on the delivery of growth in EPS over a three year period Delivery s Annual award s Shares s Variable dependent on performance over three year period s Dividend equivalent payment Policy s Annual award of 75% of salary s Maximum award under the LTIP is 150% of salary reduced to 125% of salary if the maximum LGU award is made s Subject to the Groups growth in EPS s Additional safeguards apply in relation to cash conversion, ination and the impact of acquisitions s Subject to malus provisions WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance 84 Governance Remuneration Report continued LTIP award policy for 2012 13 Each executive director will receive a LTIP award of 75% of salary following shareholder approval of the plan.
The Committee intends to apply this award policy for the foreseeable future.
The vesting of these awards will be subject to the EPS targets described in table 9.
Table 9: LTIP performance measure for awards to be made in 2012 Atkins EPS growth % of award that vests 12% or greater per annum 100 Between 5% and 12% per annum Pro rata between 25 and 100 on a straight line basis 5% per annum 25 Below 5% per annum 0 The Committee believes that these EPS targets are appropriate and stretching in the current environment.
As part of the review, the Committee has also developed a number of additional safeguards which will apply alongside the targets above.
The Committee will have discretion to adjust vesting to take account of any of the following: s the impact of any significant acquisitions in the period on the level of challenge in the targets above s the level of ination during the performance period, if it deems that this has had a significant impact on the level of challenge presented by the targets, in the context of Atkins business model s cash conversion over the performance period to ensure that the achieved EPS growth is suitably underpinned by cash generation over the period s the potential application of malus provisions page 86.
At the 2012 AGM, shareholders will be asked to approve the terms of the LTIP, which are substantially unchanged from the previous LTIP and are in line with established best practice principles.
Under the LTIP, the maximum award which may be granted to an individual within any 12 month period remains at 150% of salary.
However, this limit will now also take into account any awards made under the LGU plan within the same 12 month period.
If no LGU award is made, the LTIP limit will remain at 150% of salary.
If the maximum LGU award of 50% of salary is made, then the maximum LTIP award which can be made will be reduced to 125% of salary.
This is to maintain a broadly equivalent value for the individual limit recognising that the face value of LTIP and LGU, as a percentage of salary, is not a like-for-like comparison.
For LGU awards between 0% and 50%, the LTIP limit will vary from 150% to 125% on a straight line pro rata basis.
LTIP awards made in 2011 12 During the financial year ended 31 March 2012, executive directors received LTIP awards of 100% of salary as shown in table 18 page 92.
These awards, as in previous years, were subject to the following performance measure: half of the award was based on the TSR measure shown in table 10 a and half was subject to the EPS measure shown in table 10 b.
Table 10 a : LTIP TSR performance measure for 2011 awards 50% Atkins TSR relative to the comparator group % of award that vests Upper quartile 100 Between median and upper quartile Pro rata between 30 and 100 on a straight line basis Median 30 Below median 0 Table 10 b : LTIP EPS performance measure for 2011 awards 50% Atkins EPS growth above RPI % of award that vests 10% or greater per annum 100 Between 4% and 10% per annum Pro rata between 30 and 100 on a straight line basis 4% per annum 30 Below 4% per annum 0 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance 85 LTIP awards vesting in 2011 12 LTIP awards made to executive directors in 2009 were based on EPS and TSR growth in the three years to 31 March 2012, using the same performance conditions as shown in tables 10 a and 10 b above.
The Committee has determined that neither of the performance targets were met and therefore this award will lapse in full.
For information, the full vesting history of past LTIP awards is shown in table 11.
Table 11: Vesting history of LTIP awards % of award vested EPS TSR Year of grant Performance period element element Total 2006 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2009 100 65.6 82.8 2007 1 April 2007 to 31 March 2010 91.5 0 45.7 2008 1 April 2008 to 31 March 2011 0 0 0 2009 1 April 2009 to 31 March 2012 0 0 0 Long-term Growth Unit LGU plan Purpose s To provide direct alignment with shareholders interests through sustained share price growth over the long term four to six years Delivery s Annual award s Shares s Value dependent on long term average share price performance at exercise, following a four, five and six year vesting period Policy s Maximum annual award with a face value of 50% of salary s Vest in three equal tranches, four, five and six years from grant s Vest subject to a financial underpin s No more than 50% of the total award may be exercised in a year s Subject to malus provisions During the review, the Committee concluded that the LTIP should focus executives on achieving strong EPS growth over a three year period.
At the same time, the Committee believes it is important to have an element of the long term incentive that is directly linked to sustainable long term increases in share price.
On this basis, the Committee developed the LGU plan.
The key features of the LGU plan are as follows: s Awards of units that deliver value based on the increase in the Companys average share price over the long term.
Awards to executive directors would have a maximum face value of 50% of salary and an expected value of around 10% of salary s The awards vest in three equal tranches on the fourth, fifth and sixth anniversaries of grant s The vesting of each tranche will be subject to the Committees determination that share price performance over the period is suitably underpinned by the underlying financial performance of the Group over the period s Following vesting, the units can be exercised at the discretion of the participant s On exercise, the value of each unit is equal to the difference between the six month average share price at exercise and the six month average share price at grant.
This value is delivered in the form of Atkins shares s No more than 50% of any award can be exercised in any rolling 12 month period s There will be no entitlement to dividends: participants will benefit from capital growth only s Awards are subject to malus provisions as described later in this report page 86.
The basic concept behind the LGU plan is simple: it delivers value based on the long term growth in Atkins share price.
LGU awards provide no value if the share price does not increase on a sustained basis.
Therefore it is directly aligned with the value delivered for our shareholders.
The awards are intended to create a sense of ownership and participation in the long term performance of our shares, as we seek to retain the people we need to deliver our strategy over the coming years.
They therefore vest over a longer time period than the LTIP and most conventional long term incentive plans.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance 86 Governance Remuneration Report continued Vesting of each tranche will be subject to the Committee being satisfied that share price performance is suitably underpinned by appropriate financial performance.
Prior to the vesting of each tranche, the Committee will explicitly consider the Groups progress against its strategy which may include consideration of: s margin s expansion of international revenues s organic growth.
An illustration of an LGU award is shown in gure 3.
Figure 3: Illustration of LGU awards Share Cannot be exercised Illustrative share price price in this period Six month averaging period grant and exercise Base price based on average price Gain on exercise based on six month average price at exercise Units are granted with On exercise of a tranche, a base price based on the value of each LGU is based the six month average on the difference between share price at grant the six month average share price at that point and the base price Restrictions on exercise mean that LGUs only deliver for Year sustained shareholder returns 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Grant Vests in thirds LGU award policy for 2012 13 Each executive director will receive the maximum LGU award of 50% of salary following shareholder approval of the plan.
Malus provisions As a result of the remuneration review, the Committee has determined that malus provisions will be included in the LTIP and LGU and will apply for awards made in 2012 and to deferred bonus awards made in respect of the financial year ending 31 March 2013.
These provisions will allow the Committee to reduce the number of shares to which an award relates including to zero in circumstances in which the Committee considers such action is appropriate.
Such circumstances include, but are not limited to: s a material misstatement of the Companys audited results s a material downturn in the financial performance of the Company s a material failure of risk management by the Company s serious reputational damage suffered by the Company s the participants misconduct.
Retirement of Keith Clarke Keith Clarke retired from his role as a director of the Company on 31 July 2011.
Following this, he remained an employee of the Group until his retirement on 31 March 2012, assisting with the development of our Middle East business and serving as director of sustainability.
He continues to provide services to the Group on an ad hoc consultancy basis following his retirement.
There was no compensation for loss of ofce under his service agreement as a director of the Company or of the Group.
His remuneration to 31 July 2012 is set out in table 16 page 91.
He was entitled to a pro rata bonus in respect of his services as an executive director in this period.
His bonus was based entirely on the Group financial target with no personal objectives.
The Committee assessed this on the same basis as the other executive directors page 81 and determined that an amount of 102,142 should be paid in respect of his role as chief executive officer.
This bonus will be paid entirely in cash.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance 87 The Committee, in accordance with the rules of the relevant share plans, determined that the treatment of his outstanding share awards would be as follows: s deferred bonus shares vested on his retirement from the Group on 31 March 2012 and must be exercised within six months of that date s LTIP awards will mature on the original vesting date subject to the original performance conditions but have been reduced pro rata to reect his period of employment to 31 March 2012 and will only be exercisable for six months following vesting.
In respect of the period from 31 July 2011 to 31 March 2012, Keith Clarke received aggregate emoluments of 277,509 in respect of his role as an employee of the Group.
This comprised a base salary, benets and bonus.
Executive directors contracts The service agreements of executive directors who served during the year are summarised in table 12.
Table 12: Executive directors service agreements Notice period Contract Effective date Unexpired term months date of contract of contract Keith Clarke 12 12 September 2003 1 October 2003 Expired 31 March 2012 Heath Drewett 12 17 April 2009 15 June 2009 Rolling contract Alun Grifths 12 18 April 2007 13 March 2007 Rolling contract Uwe Krueger 12 1 June 2011 14 June 2011 Rolling contract The executive directors service agreements include provision for the Company to make phased payments in the event that the agreement is terminated on giving 12 months notice.
They also include a duty for the executive director to mitigate loss where the agreement is terminated and any payment in lieu of notice may be reduced to take account of such mitigation.
No service agreement provides for predetermined amounts of compensation in the event of early termination of service contracts or any change of control provisions.
The service agreements are terminable on giving 12 months notice.
Copies of each directors service agreement will be available for inspection prior to and during the AGM and are also available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce during normal business hours.
External appointments The Board and the Committee recognise the benefit we can obtain if our executive directors serve as non-executive directors of other companies.
Subject to review in each case, the Boards general policy is that each executive director may accept one non-executive directorship with another FTSE 350 company from which any fees received may be retained.
At present no executive director holds such an appointment with a FTSE 350 company, although Uwe Krueger and Alun Grifths are currently non-executive directors of the companies listed in table 13 and retain the fees payable, as outlined in respect of these appointments.
Table 13: Non-executive remuneration for executive directors Executive director Organisation name Remuneration basis Uwe Krueger ONTEX S. A. Zele, Belgium t 60,000 per annum STR Holdings Connecticut, USA s Annual retainer of US$50,000 in cash s Fee of US$2,000 for each scheduled quarterly board and committee meeting attended s Annual grant of restricted stock to the value of US$45,000, which will vest on the day immediately preceding the day of the next annual meeting of stockholders SUSI Partners AG s 1% of the companys value relating to three years service Zurich, Switzerland on the board Alun Grifths The McLean Partnership s 10,000 per annum WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance 88 Governance Remuneration Report continued Chairman and non-executive directors The chairman and non-executive directors have letters of appointment stating their annual fee.
Their appointment is for an initial term of three years subject to satisfactory performance and their re-election at forthcoming AGMs.
In accordance with best practice and the UK Corporate Governance Code all of the directors will stand for re-election at the AGM to be held on 1 August 2012.
Their appointment may be terminated with six months written notice at any time.
Table 14 summarises the dates of appointment and most recent re-election dates for the chairman and each of the non-executive directors.
Table 14: Dates of appointment and most recent re-election dates for the chairman and each of the non-executive directors Date of appointment as a non-executive Date of last election Name of director director re-election at AGM Lord Boyce 5 May 2004 8 September 2011 Fiona Clutterbuck 13 March 2007 8 September 2011 Allan Cook 10 September 2009 8 September 2011 Joanne Curin 10 February 2009 8 September 2011 Raj Rajagopal 24 June 2008 8 September 2011 1 Rodney Slater 9 September 2011 n a 1.
Rodney Slater was appointed by the Board following the 2011 AGM.
He will stand for election by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 1 August 2012.
Copies of the letters of appointment of the chairman and non-executive directors will be available for inspection prior to and during the AGM and are also available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce during normal business hours.
The remuneration of the chairman is determined by the Committee.
The Committee reviewed the chairmans remuneration during the year and made no increase.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors was previously reviewed biennially by the Board on the recommendation of the executive directors within the limits set out in the articles of association.
It is now reviewed annually in line with the review of the remuneration of the chairman, the executive directors and all employees in the Group.
The executive directors recommendation is made in light of remuneration levels within the Group, independent advice and the level of fees paid to non-executive directors of comparator companies.
In undertaking their review of non-executive directors fees, the executive directors considered: s salary levels within the Group s the increasing internationalisation of the Group since the last review of fees in October 2010 and, in particular, the corresponding increase in demands placed on the non-executive directors in terms of both the complexity of their role and the time commitment required of them s benchmarking against published fee data for FTSE 250 companies and a bespoke comparator group of companies of a similar size, background and complexity.
The Board, on the recommendation of the executive directors, approved: s an increase in the basic annual fee paid to non-executive directors, as disclosed in table 15 page 89, in line with the salary increase budgeted for the Group s an increase to the annual fee paid to the chairmen and members of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, as disclosed in table 15 page 89, in recognition of the permanent increase in the demands being placed on members of the Audit and Remuneration Committees s an additional fee be paid to the senior independent director, as disclosed in table 15 page 89, in recognition of the increasing importance of the role in ensuring good governance and the consequential additional time commitment required.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance 89 The fees for both the chairman and the non-executive directors are inclusive of normal travel expenses for travelling to and from the Groups Epsom or London ofces.
Expenses are still payable on all travel and subsistence to ofces outside these areas in accordance with the Groups normal policy.
The annual fees are specic to each director reecting their individual commitments to the Board and various Board committees.
The current fees are shown in table 15.
Table 15: Chairman and non-executive directors fees Fee Description Fee as at 1 April 2012 Fee as at 1 April 2011 2 Chairman fee 190,000 190,000 Non-executive director fees Basic annual fee 41,200 40,000 1 Committee chair annual fee 7,500 6,000 1 Committee annual fee 4,000 3,000 3 Senior Independent Director fee 5,000 n a 1.
No fee is paid in respect of chairmanship or membership of the Nomination Committee.
An annual expenses allowance in connection with visits to the Groups London and Epsom ofces is no longer payable and was replaced with an increase in Allan Cooks annual fee from 1 April 2011.
An additional fee has been introduced for the role of senior independent director in recognition of the increasing importance of the role in ensuring good governance and the consequential additional time commitment required.
The chairman and the non-executive directors are not eligible for pensions, share incentives, annual bonus or any similar payments other than out-of-pocket expenses in connection with the performance of their duties.
The chairman and the non-executive directors do not participate in any meeting at which discussions in respect of matters relating to their own position take place.
Share ownership Shareholding guideline Purpose s To strengthen alignment with shareholders further Delivery s Shares purchased in the market s Vested shares awarded under a share plan Policy s One times salary During its review of executive remuneration, the Committee considered carefully the shareholding guidelines for executive directors.
Previously each executive director was encouraged to hold shares in the Company either directly or through share awards made in connection with annual bonuses equivalent to the level of their annual salary, based on the value of such shares at the time of their acquisition or award, or their current market value from time to time, whichever is the higher.
In future, executive directors will ordinarily be expected to build up an interest in the Companys shares equivalent to one times their salary, based on the value of such shares at the time of the acquisition or their current market value, whichever is the higher.
Such an interest would normally be expected to be built up within a five year period following the adoption of the policy in 2012.
The interests of the directors and their families in the ordinary shares of 0.5p each in the Company as at 31 March 2012 are shown in table 19 page 93.
Details of the share options and long term incentives of each executive director as at 31 March 2012 are given in table 18 page 92.
For each share under option that had not expired at the end of the financial year, the mid market price on 30 March 2012 being the last trading day before 31 March 2012 was 734.0p and the highest and lowest mid market prices during the financial year were 820.0p and 490.2p respectively.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance 90 Governance Remuneration Report continued Performance graph Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 requires the Company to provide a graph comparing a hypothetical holding of shares in the Company with a broad equity market index over a five year period.
The Companys performance, measured by TSR, can be compared with the performance of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts over the past five years.
This index is considered the most appropriate index against which to measure performance as the Company has been a member of the FTSE 250 for the whole of the five-year period.
This is illustrated in gure 4.
Figure 4: Total shareholder return 120 FTSE 250 110 100 Atkins 90 80 70 60 Source: Datastream 50 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 TSR is dened as the return shareholders would receive on a notional holding of shares including dividends received on those shares over a period of time.
Assuming dividends are reinvested into the Companys shares, it measures the percentage growth in the Companys share price together with the value of any dividends paid.
All-employee share plans The Company operates a Share Incentive Plan, as approved by HM Revenue & Customs, which is offered to all eligible UK employees, including the executive directors.
In addition, at the annual general meeting to be held in August, the Company will be seeking approval of all-employee share plans in countries where the Group has a significant presence.
These will take the form of: s a Save As You Earn SAYE or Sharesave plan in the UK s a 423 plan, an American tax-favoured employee share plan also known as a tax-qualied Employee Stock Purchase Plan similar in operation to a UK SAYE, in the US s a global all-employee plan in other jurisdictions where the Group has a significant presence such as the Middle East and Asia.
At this stage it is proposed that the necessary approvals including, but not limited to, shareholder approval are sought to enable such plans to be put in place sometime in the future.
There is no specic intention to launch any all-employee plans during the financial year ending 31 March 2013.
The Committee will need to approve the launch of any proposed all-employee plan.
Dilution DSP share awards can only be satisfied using market purchase shares held in the Employee benefit Trust EBT.
LTIP and LGU share awards can be satisfied using new issue shares, shares held in treasury or market purchase shares held in the EBT.
The Committee reviews the hedging and dilution position of the Company at least bi-annually prior to making grants of share awards.
Both the LTIP and LGU operate 5% in 10 years executive schemes and 10% in 10 years aggregate dilution limits in line with best practice.
At 31 March 2012 the EBT held 2,375,800 shares to hedge outstanding awards over 3,732,383 shares.
At this date the EBT held shares to satisfy 63.7% of all outstanding awards.
No new issue shares have been used to satisfy share awards since 2005 and, to date, no treasury shares have been used.
Remuneration paid to directors during the year The remuneration of each director, excluding long term share based incentive awards, during the year ended 31 March 2012 compared with 2011 is set out in table 16 page 91.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Dr Raj Rajagopal Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 13 June 2012 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance 91 Remuneration paid to directors during the year audited Table 16: Remuneration paid during the year Dened Contribution pension Total Other payments Other Non-cash Total 2011 5 6 12 13 Salary fees Bonus benets allowance payments emoluments 2012 restated 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive directors 1 7 Keith Clarke 145.9 102.1 4.9 36.5 289.4 932.3 8 Heath Drewett 312.0 151.8 15.3 78.0 75.9 633.0 623.8 9 10 Alun Grifths 227.0 109.0 14.9 24.3 0.8 54.5 430.5 444.8 2 11 Uwe Krueger 440.0 263.3 21.3 110.0 20.6 131.6 986.8 n a Total executive directors 1,124.9 626.2 56.4 248.8 21.4 262.0 2,339.7 2,000.9 Chairman and non-executive directors Lord Boyce 43.0 43.0 41.5 Fiona Clutterbuck 46.0 46.0 44.5 Allan Cook 190.0 1.9 191.9 189.9 Joanne Curin 46.0 46.0 45.2 Raj Rajagopal 46.4 46.4 42.3 3 Rodney Slater 24.3 24.3 n a 4 Sir Peter Williams 21.5 21.5 47.5 Total chairman and non-executive directors 417.2 1.9 419.1 410.9 1.
Keith Clarke retired as a director on 31 July 2011.
This relates to his qualifying service as a director.
Rodney Slater was appointed as a director on 9 September 2011.
Sir Peter Williams retired as a director on 8 September 2011.
Other benets include such items as company cars or allowances, fuel and medical insurance for the executive directors and expenses chargeable to income tax.
Keith Clarke was entitled to a pension payment equivalent to 25% of his salary.
He elected to receive this entitlement as a taxable payment.
Heath Drewett was entitled to receive a dened contribution pension or pension allowance equivalent to 25% of salary.
He elected to receive a dened contribution pension until 31 December 2011 and then received a pension allowance as a taxable payment from 1 January 2012 to 31 March 2012.
Alun Grifths was entitled to receive a pension contribution or pension allowance equivalent to 10% of salary until 31 January 2012 and 12% of salary from 1 February 2012, due to transitional relief in connection with the removal of the link to final salary for his dened benefit entitlement.
He elected to receive a pension contribution until 31 December 2011 and then received a pension allowance as a taxable payment from 1 January 2012 to 31 March 2012.
In addition to the Companys contributions of 18,670 2011: 23,000, the Company made additional contributions of 1,645 2011: 1,819 in respect of national insurance contributions the Company would have paid had Alun Grifths not chosen to make his contributions via salary sacrifice.
Alun Grifths was entitled to a transitional payment of 2% of salary, on the same basis as other staff, following the removal of the link to final salary.
Uwe Krueger receives an aggregate allowance for travel expenses incurred between his home and the UK during the first five years following appointment of 39k a direct replacement for the rental allowance disclosed last year and an allowance for the provision to him of professional advice.
Heath Drewett, Alun Grifths and Uwe Krueger are required to take a minimum of one third of their bonus payment in the form of a right to acquire shares under the Atkins Deferred Share Plan DSP.
Awards of shares to these values will be made following the announcement of the preliminary results pursuant to the rules of the DSP to Heath Drewett, Alun Grifths and Uwe Krueger.
These awards will be disclosed in the directors share options and long term incentives table in the 2013 Remuneration Report.
Restated to include dened contribution pension payments allowances to provide a comparative with the more fulsome disclosure included for the year ended 31 March 2012.
This element of remuneration has been included in this table to ensure the total remuneration gure for directors is more easily accessible.
Table 17: Executive directors pension benets dened benefit Alun Grifths Accrued annual pension at 31 March 2011 69,990 p. a.
Accrued annual pension at 31 March 2012 77,844 p. a.
Gross increase decrease in accrued pension over the year 7,854 Increase decrease in accrued pension net of ination over the year 4,355 1 Transfer value as at 31 March 2011 1,061,760 Transfer value as at 31 March 2012 1,853,919 1 Increase in transfer value, less any contributions made, during the year 739,071 Employee contributions during the year Company contributions during the year 1.
Increase in transfer value was the result of several factors including the incorrect calculation of the transfer value at 31 March 2011 which accounts for around half of the increase in transfer value reported, the fall in gilt yields, the impact of assumed interest and a salary increase.
The correct transfer value at 31 March 2011 was 1,432,852.
Plan names: LTIP Atkins Long Term Incentive Plan DBP Atkins Deferred Bonus Plan DSP Atkins Deferred Share Plan 2.
The awards granted under the terms of the LTIP, DBP and the DSP are structured as options, for which the exercise price is nil.
He retired as an employee of the Group on 31 March 2012.
Subject to performance criteria described in note 34 to the Financial Statements.
Following the exceptional write down in relation to Metronet, the Companys EPS for the financial year ended 31 March 2007 was 56.8 p. The consequence of this was that any LTIP awards made in 2007 would never be capable of vesting.
Pursuant to the rules of the plan, the Remuneration Committee considered that it was appropriate to remove profit in respect of discontinued operations and the exceptional loss in respect of Metronet and that the EPS for the financial year ending immediately before the commencement of the performance period for the 2007 awards be deemed to be 57.3p.
In 2009 the Remuneration Committee considered the impact of the 7.0m tax benefit from the purchase of prior year consortium relief from the Metronet companies and concluded that the non-trading nature of this benefit was not a fair reection of underlying earnings.
Pursuant to the rules of the plan, the Remuneration Committee considered it was appropriate to remove the benefit of this item and that the EPS for the financial year ending immediately before the commencement of the performance period for the 2009 award was 76.4p.
In 2010 the Remuneration Committee considered the impact of the expiry of a letter of credit in respect of the Metronet enterprise and the related provision giving rise to a one off, non-cash pre-tax credit of 25m in the Groups income statement for the year.
It concluded that the non-trading nature of this benefit was not a fair reection of underlying earnings.
It was therefore excluded and the lower normalised basic EPS for the year ended 31 March 2010 of 79.4p was used to calculate the vesting of LTIP awards made in 2007 and was also used as the EPS for the financial year immediately before the commencement of the performance period for the 2010 awards.
Keith Clarke exercised this award following his retirement as a director but before his retirement as an employee of the Group on 31 March 2012.
In accordance with the rules of the LTIP, this award was pro-rated to reect the proportion of the period from the award date to the first date of exercise that had elapsed as at the date of his retirement as an employee of the Group on 31 March 2012.
Changes in interests of Heath Drewett and Uwe Krueger between 31 March 2012 and 13 June 2012 relate to shares acquired via the Atkins Share Incentive Plan.
Changes in interests of Alun Grifths between 31 March 2012 and 13 June 2012 relate to shares acquired via the Atkins Share Incentive Plan and automatic dividend reinvestment within an ISA.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance
