REMUNERATION REPORT Details of the Groups remuneration policy and the remuneration packages of Executive Directors and the Senior Management can be found on thefollowing pages of this Remuneration Report.
However, keypoints tobe aware of this year are: 1.
The base salaries of Steven Boyes and David Thomas have been adjusted to reflect an increase in responsibilities following the resignation of Clive Fenton from the Board on 5 July 2012.
Mark Clare has been awarded a salary increase of approximately 3% for the 2012 13 financial year, which isinline with the increases awarded I am pleased to present the Directors remuneration report for the financial toemployees across the Group.
Toprovide some context, this is the year ended 30 June 2012 the Remuneration Report on behalf of the second year in the last five years where any increase has been made Remuneration Committee the Committee.
The Remuneration Report is toExecutive Directors salaries.
prepared in accordance with schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized 2.
Given the significantly improved financial performance of the Group, Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 S. I. the bonus payments for the 2011 12 financial year are at148.75% 2008 410 the Regulations and will be subject toan advisory vote at the ofbase salary after taking account of adjustments for thevalue of 2012 AGM.
Following implementation of the proposed new remuneration land sales.
The Committee, onreviewing performance against the reporting regulations, the Company intends to align its future reporting targets, concluded that, after taking into account the Groups with those regulations as soon as practicable after they come into effect.
significant improvement in profit before tax and exceptional items which represents 80% of the total award for the year to 110.7m The Board recognises that the Groups remuneration policy should against the minimum threshold established for the bonus of85m, reflect the Groups strategy to increase profitability and reduce overall atarget level of 95m and a maximum threshold of 115m: reduction indebtedness in a challenging market whilst seeking to attract, retain in overall indebtedness: and individual contributions of allsenior and motivate directors and senior managers of the quality required managers toachieving these results, this level of bonus isjustified.
toenable successful future growth of the Group.
For the 2012 13 financial year, Executive Directors and the executive remuneration must remain aligned with the long-term SeniorManagement will be granted awards under the Long-Term performance of the Group and the interests of shareholders.
In Performance Plan the LTPP.
Consistent with the approach taken determining the levels of remuneration for Executive Directors and inprevious years, the Committee has decided torevert to making members of senior management directly below the Executive Director awards of 200% of base salary for the three Executive Directors butall level the Senior Management, consideration is given to the overall other participants awards will be maintained at 150% of base salary.
All performance of the Group, the fixed and variable incentives offered awards under the LTPP will be subject to two performance conditions: bycomparable companies in the sector and a general group of half will be based on relative Total Shareholder Return TSR and the 40pan-sector FTSE 350 members and the pay and employment other half on Earnings per Share EPS targets to be measured over conditions being offered to employees throughout the Group.
Targets athree year performance period commencing 1 July 2012. todrive increased profitability and reduced overall indebtedness are 4.
I n May 2012, the Board reviewed the roles of the Non-Executive features of the short and long-term incentive schemes toensure that Directors and decided that they will sit on each principal Committee Executive Directors and Senior Management performance is ofthe Board with effect from 1 July 2012.
Consequently, Non-Executive appropriately aligned with our corporate strategy.
Directors base annual fees have been increased to 48,000 from 40,000 to reflect the additional time commitment expected from them, with effect from the same date.
This is the first increase for Non-Executive Directors since 2008.
The Chairmans fee will howeverremain unchanged.
The Board will be asking shareholders at our forthcoming AGM toapprove the renewal of the LTPP for a further ten years.
The only substantial amendment to the LTPP relates to the specific inclusion ofclawback provisions for any awards made under the LTPP going forward.
Since 2010, clawback provisions have been agreed with, andaccepted by, the Executive Directors and the Senior Management each time an award under the LTPP has been made.
In order to seek to mitigate the impact of key employees below Senior Management level taking up new job opportunities with competitors, particularly in London and theSouth East, we have introduced alimited Long-Term Incentive Plan the LTIP for approximately 30ofthese employees.
Awards under the LTIP are dependent ontheCompany achieving EPS targets as per the existing LTPP.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 53 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT During the year the Committee complied with those aspects of the UK The Committee Corporate Governance Code the Code relevant to its business and The Committee operates within terms of reference and governance took into account remuneration guidelines and guidance issued by the policies approved by the Board the Terms of Reference.
The full Association of British Insurers the ABI, NAPF and PIRC when setting Terms of Reference are available from the Companys website at itsremuneration policy.
The Committee continues to seek to demonstrate www.
its accountability on executive remuneration to shareholders through thisreport and through dialogue with institutional investors.
As in previous Principal responsibilities years, the Committee did engage in dialogue with key institutional The principal responsibilities of the Committee are: investors and shareholder representative bodies in respect of the determining and reviewing the overall remuneration policy of the Group Groups remuneration policy for Executive Directors and Senior with regard to attracting, retaining and motivating directors and senior Management for the forthcoming year.
The Committee took into account managers of the experience and calibre required by the Group having the feedback it received from this process, when setting the Groups regard to remuneration paid to employees across the Group and an remuneration policy.
external comparable group of companies: determining, reviewing and making recommendations to the Board on The Committee will consider both the shareholders vote on the report the remuneration package and terms of appointment of the Chairman: and views expressed by shareholders on the detail of the report at the agreeing targets and benefits in respect of performance related pay 2012 AGM in determining future remuneration policy for all employees.
schemes, including long-term performance plans, for all participating Itwill also undertake a review, with the assistance of its legal and employees which are sufficiently challenging, fair and highly motivating, financial advisers, of the Groups current remuneration policy in linewith commensurate with sector practice, and consistent with maximising the Governments announcement in June 2012, once the applicable shareholder value and the interests and expectations of shareholders: regulations have been finalised.
I hope that you will be able tosupport agreeing severance arrangements or other compensation for loss the Committees policy at this years AGM.
ofoffice or early retirement for the Chairman, Executive Directors andthe Senior Management: After eight years on the Board of the Company, six years as the determining the total remuneration package of the Group Chief Chairman of the Committee and three years as Senior Independent Executive and, after consultation with him, the total individual Director, I have decided to step down from each of these positions remuneration package of each Executive Director and the Senior atthe 2012 AGM.
I am delighted to report that the Board has agreed Management including bonuses, incentive payments and share toappoint Richard Akers as the new Chairman of the Committee options awards and pension arrangements: and subject of course to the annual shareholders vote on re-election of undertaking consultations with institutional investors on remuneration directors.
In order to enhance the effectiveness of the Committee further, policy and or other aspects of senior remuneration, as appropriate.
Mark Rolfe joined the Committee as a member on 1 July 2012.
The Committee is also responsible for appointing consultants to advise on executive remuneration.
Details of the consultants utilised during the Robert Davies financial year ended 30 June 2012 are set out below.
CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Membership and proceedings of the Committee The members of the Committee throughout the financial year were BobDavies Chairman, Bob Lawson, Rod MacEachrane and Tessa Bamford.
Richard Akers also joined the Committee on 2April 2012.
TheGroup General Counsel and Company Secretary, TomKeevil, acts asSecretary to the Committee.
The Committee met onfive occasions during the financial year and attendance at each of these meetings is described in Table 1 on page 43 of the Corporate Governance Report.
AllCommittee members are considered to be independent with nofinancial interest in the Committees decisions, other than as shareholders and the fees paid to them as Non-Executive Directors.
Theonly material issue that arose from the annual effectiveness exercise was whether the Committee needed more strength in depth given the envisaged legislative changes inthis area.
Accordingly, Mark Rolfe joined the Committee with effect from 1July 2012.
The Committee also updated its Terms of Reference as part ofthe annual effectiveness process.
Details of Directors shareholdings canbe found on page 64 of this Remuneration Report.
As announced on 25 July 2012, Bob Davies will step down from his position as a Director of the Board at the 2012 AGM and taking into consideration theskills, knowledge and experience of each of the Non-Executive Directors, the Board identified Richard Akers as the mostsuitable Non-Executive Director to replace Bob Davies as the Chairman of the Committee.
54 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Advice Advisers performance-related remuneration should align the interests During the year the Committee has taken advice from independent ofexecutives with those of shareholders by setting performance advisers, New Bridge Street NBS, a division of Aon Hewitt Limited, targets based on measures of shareholder return and accordingly which is a subsidiary of Aon plc.
NBS was appointed by the Committee theCommittees policy is to use a combination of TSR and EPS as its remuneration consultant in2008 and is a founder signatory to the performance conditions to achieve this alignment: Remuneration Consultants Groups Code of Conduct.
In addition to total remuneration for outstanding performance should be advising the Committee, NBS also provided the Company with advice competitivewith that available elsewhere in the sector: and onimplementing decisions made by the Committee and remuneration total remuneration should take into account levels of pay and benchmarking.
NBSs fees for providing such advice amounted to employment conditions throughout the Group.
Aon Hewitt Limited also provided broking services to the Company in respect of Chart 1: private medical insurance, Death in Service benefits and Group Income Protection.
Inline with best practice, theCommittee assesses, from time Chief Executive officer's Remuneration to time, whether the appointment remains appropriate or if it should Mix at Maximum Performance beput out to tender as part of itseffectiveness review.
Fixed Pay 27.8% personnel atNBS, the Committee undertook such an assessment during 2.
Short-Term Incentives 30.9% 1 the year and remainssatisfied with NBSs appointment, and the new lead 3.
Long-Term Incentives 41.3% adviser, asremuneration advisers totheCommittee.
Mercer Limited has 3 advised the Company in relation to various pension issues and has been appointed actuary to the Barratt Group Pension and Life Assurance 2 Scheme since 2004.
Slaughter and May, the Companys corporate legaladvisers, have alsoprovided advice as and when necessary.
Chart 2: In addition to advice from external consultants, the Committee received input into its decision-making from the Group Chief Executive and the Other Executive Directors' Remuneration Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, neither of whom was Mix at Maximum Performance present at any time when his own remuneration was being considered.
Long-Term Incentives 41.3% The Groups remuneration policy aims to attract, retain, motivate and 3 reward Executive Directors and the Senior Management who are fully focused and incentivised by short and long-term measures to sustain 2 thegrowth and profitability of the business and reduce overall indebtedness, which remain the Groups key strategic objectives.
Each year the Committee reviews the policy on executive remuneration inthe context of the business environment, regulation and best practice, and The Committee has the discretion to, and does, consider the effect of market trends for the current and subsequent financial years.
corporate performance on environmental, social and governance risks and issues when setting the remuneration of the Executive Directors TheCommittee believes that executive remuneration should: andthe Senior Management to ensure that remuneration structures be fully aligned with the performance and strategic objectives donot inadvertently motivate irresponsible behaviour.
As a result, oftheGroup such as increasing profitability and reducing 10%ofany bonus earned will be forfeited if the Group does not achieve overallindebtedness : its safety, health and environmental compliance targets see page 31 be aligned with the interests and expectations of shareholders: ofthe Business Review.
During the year the Committee considered take account of pay and employment conditions of employees thestructure of Executive Directors and the Senior Managements acrossthe Group: remuneration packages from a general risk perspective and is satisfied reward the sustained growth and profitability of the business and that they do not encourage inappropriate risk taking.
Risk is also taken thereduction of overall indebtedness: and into account when setting the targets and when determining entitlements conform to market-leading best practice and regulations.
The Committee ensures that targets, whilst stretching, are: realistic and attainable: for thelong-term benefit of The Committee has therefore based the executive remuneration the Group: and not achievable by taking inappropriate business risks.
package for the forthcoming year on the following principles: performance-related remuneration should be linked to the In undertaking its review of the Groups remuneration policy, the achievement of demanding performance targets: Committee considered a proposal by the Board to seek to mitigate performance-related remuneration should reflect the reallocation theimpact of key employees below Senior Management level taking ofresponsibilities upon the appointment of Steven Boyes as Chief upnew job opportunities with competitors operating nationally, but most Operating Officer and changes to the role performed by David Thomas: notably inLondon and the South East.
Recognising the risks associated currently approximately 72.2% of the Group Chief Executives and with losses from this talent pool, the Committee approved the introduction approximately 72.3% of the other Executive Directors remuneration of the LTIP for approximately 30 employees operating immediately below potential is performance based see Charts 1 and 2 : Senior Management level.
The Executive Directors and Senior BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 55 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT Management will not be granted any awards under the LTIP.
David Thomas joined the Company inJuly 2009. annual basis, subject to prior approval from the Committee the equivalent On30June 2012, Mark Clare, Steven Boyes and Clive Fenton each of 20% of each participants salary will be deferred into the LTIP.
The LTIP mettherequirements under these shareholding guidelines.
will be subject to an EPS performance condition on the same basis as any LTPP award which may be granted during the 2012 13 financial year There are no formal shareholding guidelines for the Chairman, the thereby aligning the objectives and subsequent LTPP awards and a Non-Executive Directors and the Senior Management, however they continued employment condition.
In the event that the participant isstill areencouraged to hold shares in the Company in order to align their an employee of the Group at the end of the three year performance interests with those of shareholders.
period and the Group achieves the specified EPS targets, the participant will receive an equivalent number of shares to the amount of bonus The remuneration package for Executive Directors and the deferred.
By using the same stretching EPS targets asthe LTPP, the SeniorManagement Committee is ensuring that the LTIP is aligned with ourstrategic The remuneration package for Executive Directors and the Senior objectives of increasing profitability and reducing overall indebtedness.
Management comprises: base salary: Clawback annual performance related bonus: The Company has a power of clawback in respect of any annual bonus long-term share incentives: and paid and to any share awards granted under the LTPP or the Executive pension and other benefits.
Share Option Scheme the ESOS in respect of the financial year ended 30June 2010 and later years, subject in the case of HMRC approved The performance conditions which apply to the performance related options, to such approval.
Theseprovisions have, since 2010, been agreed element of executive remuneration are the same for all Executive with, and accepted by, Executive Directors and Senior Management at the Directors and the Senior Management and are set out in the following time of granting anynew awards under the LTPP or ESOS.
It is intended to sections of this Remuneration Report.
Details on how the expected embed these provisions in the amended rules of the LTPP which are to be values for share based payments are calculated can be found in presented for approval by shareholders at the 2012 AGM.
In addition, the note 28 to the financial statements on pages 118 to 123. clawback provisions will also apply to any awards granted under the LTIP.
Base salary The clawback can be invoked if: Base salaries for Executive Directors and the Senior Management are a it is necessary to restate the Groups accounts used to calculate afixed annual sum payable in monthly instalments in cash.
Base salaries aparticipants entitlement to bonus or share awards in circumstances are reviewed annually, with assistance from NBS, having regard to: where the original over-statement has led to a bonus being paid or share individual responsibilities, skills and experience: salary levels for similar awards being granted which would not otherwise have been paid or positions in other major house builders and other comparable companies granted: or b the participant is found guilty of any criminal activity in comprising the FTSE 250 and a general group of 40 pan-sector FTSE 350 connection with his or her employment and this related to an act which members with a market capitalisation and turnover of between 50% and led to a bonus being paid or share awards being granted to him or her.
200% of that of the Company: the level ofpay increases awarded across the Group: economic and market conditions: and the performance of the In such circumstances, the Committee may determine that the bonus Group.
Any changes to base salary take effect from 1 July annually.
and or share award will be retrospectively recalculated.
If bonus monies have been paid, the participant will be required to reimburse the On 5 July 2012, Clive Fenton resigned as a Director of the Company and Company for an amount up to the total amount of the net bonus paid, all relevant Group companies.
He remains an employee of the Company lessany bonus that the Committee determines would have been paid until 31 December 2012, during which time he will receive a base salary regardless of the event in question.
If share awards have been granted, of25,000 per month and a benefits package comprising the provision the number ofawards or options granted will be reduced accordingly.
ofa motor vehicle and private medical insurance.
He is also required tocomply with certain non-compete covenants during this period Executive Directors shareholding guidelines ofemployment and a further six months thereafter.
His executive The Committee has implemented, and annually reviews, the following responsibilities were primarily subsumed within the revised remit of shareholding guidelines for all Executive Directors in order to further StevenBoyes who was appointed as Chief Operating Officer COO align the interests of the Executives with the expectations of the forthe Group, and to a lesser extent by David Thomas.
Companys shareholders: within five years of being appointed to the Board, Executive Directors In recognition of the additional responsibilities assumed by him, Steven are required to build up, and retain, ordinary shares in the Company Boyes has been awarded an increase inhis base salary of approximately equivalent in value to 100% of their base annual salary: 10.5% to 430,000 per annum.
David Thomas base salary has also been the share price to be used for the purposes of determining the value increased by approximately 5.4% to 430,000 partially also to reflect an ofthe shares will be that prevailing on 30 June in each year: and increase in his responsibilities.
In addition, Davids pension contribution provided that Executive Directors hold the appropriate level of shares, rate has been increased to 30% so that it corresponds with the rate they may sell shares i to realise their LTPP awards: or ii upon the fortheother Executive Directors.
The Committee has agreed to award exercise of share options, subject to the normal Listing Rules and MarkClare a salary increase of 3.3% for the 2012 13 financial year, in Disclosure and Transparency Rules requirements for directors dealings.
linewith the salary increases awarded to the Senior Management and allemployees across the Group.
Executive Directors salaries, with effect These guidelines are currently only applicable to Steven Boyes from 1 July 2012, will therefore be as shown in Table 2.
56 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Table 2 Executive Directors salaries status for both the Recommend score and the Quality score under the Home Builders Federation scheme.
Failure to achieve this will result in Per annum 10% of any bonus earned being forfeited.
In terms of safety, health and 1 July 2012 1 July 2011 environment, 10% of the total bonus earned will be forfeited for failure toachieve the on-target performance measure.
As a result, if neither Mark Clare 664,000 642,600 ofthese performance measures were to be achieved, in aggregate David Thomas 430,000 408,000 20%ofthe annual bonus earned would be forfeited.
Steven Boyes 430,000 390,000 1 Clive Fenton 390,000 390,000 2011 12 financial year 1 Clive Fenton resigned from his position as an Executive Director on 5 July 2012, but remains an employee For the financial year ended 30 June 2012, the Committee has approved ofthe Group until 31 December 2012 as set out on page 56. abonus payment to Executive Directors no part of which is pensionable Annual bonus of148.75% of base salary 48.75% of which will be deferred into shares The Companys annual bonus plan aims to motivate and reward based on performance against profit before tax, cash generation, employee Executive Directors and the Senior Management for the achievement engagement and individual objectives and after taking account of ofdemanding financial objectives and key strategic measures as set adjustments for the value of land sales.
The Committee believes that after bythe Board.
The Committee ensures that performance measures taking into account the Groups significant improvement in profit before tax for bonuses are stretching whilst having regard to the nature and risk and exceptional items which determined 80% of thetotal bonus forthe profile of the Company and the interests of its shareholders.
year to 110.7m against the minimum threshold established forthe bonus of 85m, the target level of 95m and maximum threshold of 115m: the 2012 13 financial year reduction of overall indebtedness to 167.7m: and the contribution that For the financial year ending 30 June 2013, the Committee has theExecutive Directors and the Senior Management have individually maintained the maximum bonus for Executive Directors and the Senior andcollectively made to this strong operational and financial performance, Management at 150% of base salary but simplified the bonus structure, thislevel of bonus is justified.
Clive Fenton will receive no bonus in respect so that depending upon performance, this flexible element of of the 2011 12 financial year or the 2012 13 financial year.
remuneration will pay an amount between 0% and 150% of base salary on a linear basis.
Any awards in excess of 100% of base salary will be Share incentive schemes deferred into shares in the Company, held under the Co-Investment During the year the Committee undertook a review of the share incentive Plan for a period of three years with a continued employment condition.
schemes currently in operation and agreed that grant levels, performance No other performance conditions will apply to this award and the criteria and vesting schedules remain appropriate to the Companys current Committee has agreed that no matching shares will be awarded against circumstances and prospects.
There have been no significant amendments these shares.
The payment for on-target performance will again remain to the terms and conditions of any entitlement under any scheme.
Details at 75% of base salary, however the ratio of profit before tax to overall ofall Executive Directors long-term performance plans and share options indebtedness has been adjusted from 120:15 to 100:35.
It is worth are set out in Tables 7 and 8 respectively on pages 64 and 65. noting that the on-target and maximum bonus potential for the forthcoming year still remain below the levels in place prior to the Each of the share schemes currently in operation is subject to two economic downturn, which were at 130% and 180% of salary performance conditions and a three-year performance period.
In addition, the Committee has retained an absolute ofthe awards will vest on attainment of a performance target on relative discretion in the making of bonus payments, and will continue to TSR and the other half on the attainment of a target based on EPS.
consider, among other factors, the underlying financial performance TheTSR and EPS performance conditions are calculated as follows: ofthe business relative to the sector inits decision making.
TSR The performance measures against which bonus payments for the The TSR element is calculated as the percentage change in share price 2012 13 financial year will be determined are as follows: plus dividends over a three-year performance period against the comparable group comprising the FTSE 250 excluding investment Performance % of Salary trusts, with the opening share price averaged across the dealing days measure Maximum inthethree-month period ending immediately before the start of the Profit before tax 100 performance period and the closing price averaged over the dealing days Overall indebtedness 35 in the last three months of the performance period.
Performance against Personal objectives 10 the TSR target is measured at the end of a three-year performance period.
Employee engagement 5 Total 150 EPS Any bonus earned in excess of 100% will be deferred into shares.
The EPS for the Company is calculated by dividing the earnings in EPSover a three-year performance period by the weighted average In addition to these performance measures, the Committee has retained number of ordinary shares in issue at the end of the performance period the penalties introduced last year for under-performance in respect of excluding those held by the Employee Benefit Trust.
For all schemes customer service and safety, health and environment.
The customer except for the 2009 10 ESOS performance against the EPS target service penalty has however been revised so that performance is no istested after the end of a three-year performance period.
Details in longer measured against the achievement of the on-target percentage respect of the testing of the 2009 10 ESOS can be found on page 60 for customer service but is dependent on the achievement of five star ofthis Remuneration Report.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 57 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT TSR performance is calculated by NBS and EPS performance is verified In addition to the above, vesting of the 2012 13 LTPP Award will be by the Committee.
subject to an overriding Committee discretion, in that the Committee must be satisfied that the underlying financial performance of the Group New awards to be granted during the financial year ending over the performance period warrants the level of vesting asdetermined 30 June 2013 by applying the above targets.
If the Committee is not ofthis view, then it Consistent with previous years, the Committee has decided to grant is empowered to reduce the level of vesting.
LTPP awards to Executive Directors and the Senior Management during the financial year ending 30June 2013.
Co-Investment Plan The Committee has decided to use the Co-Investment Plan the Plan The LTPP was approved by shareholders at the AGM held in November tohold shares awarded in respect of any bonus earned in excess 2003.
Awards under the LTPP are at the discretion of the Committee, of100% of base salary.
Any shares so awarded are subject to a taking into account individual performance and the overall performance continued employment performance condition over a three-year of the Group.
An employee is not eligible to receive options under the performance period.
The Committee has agreed that no matching ESOS and awards under the LTPP in the same financial year.
The shares will be awarded against these shares.
tenyear limit on powers to grant any awards under the current LTPP expires on 12 November 2013.
Consequently, a resolution seeking the The Plan was approved by shareholders at the AGM held in November approval of shareholders to extend the LTPP for a further ten years, to 2005 for the purpose of compulsorily deferring any annual bonus earned 12November 2023, will be proposed at the 2012 AGM.
The Committee above target into shares held under this Plan.
Participants also have the has also taken this opportunity to review and update the rules of the opportunity tovoluntarily defer additional amounts of annual bonus up to LTPP in order to take into account legislative changes and to include a maximum of 25% of base salary into the Plan.
Under the rules of the specific provisions relating to the Committees power of clawback.
Plan the Committee has a discretion which allows it to award matching Further details can be found in the Notice of the 2012 AGM.
shares at a rate of one for one for compulsory deferral and at a maximum of four for one for voluntary deferral the Matching Award.
Any Matching Any LTPP awards that are made in the 2012 13 financial year the Awards will be subject toperformance conditions measured over a 2012 13 LTPP Award will not exceed 200% of base salary for each of period ofthree years.
the Executive Directors and 150% of base salary for all other participants.
The 2012 13 LTPP Award will be subject to three-year TSR and EPS For the financial years ended 30 June 2010 and 2011 no bonus was conditions.
The vesting of half of the 2012 13 LTPP Award subject to earned in excess of 100% of base salary by Executive Directors and aTSR condition will be dependent upon the Companys performance Senior Management, and therefore no shares were deferred into the over three years, commencing 1 July 2012, against the constituents Plan.
For thefinancial year ended 30 June 2012, Executive Directors ofthe FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts.
other than Clive Fenton who will not receive any bonus for the 2011 12 financial year earned, in aggregate, a bonus of 702,293 in excess of Levels of vesting against the TSR condition will be as follows: 100% ofbase salary, which will be deferred into shares based on the share price as calculated by averaging the closing middle-market Rank of Companys TSR against Level of vesting quotations, as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock comparator group of TSR element Exchange, for the first five dealing days following the date of the Upper Quartile or above 100% announcement of the Groups annual results for the financial year ended Median 25% 30 June 2012.
The actual awards will be set out in next years report.
Below Median 0% Any bonus earned in excess of 100% of base salary bytheSenior Between Upper Quartile Straight-line basis Management for the 2011 12 financial year will also bedeferred into andMedian between 25% and 100% thePlan on the same basis.
The other half of the award which is based on an EPS measure will veston the attainment of the EPS target for the financial year ending 30June 2015.
Reflecting the significant improvement in the Companys performance, current consensus targets for profit before tax for the financial year 2014 15, the Boards assessment of the optimal scale ofthe business and the need to ensure continued focus on managing debt, the levels of vesting against the EPS will be as follows: Level of vesting EPS target Financial year 2014 15 of EPS element 26 pence per share or higher 100% 22 pence per share 50% 18 pence per share 25% Below 18 pence per share 0% Between 22 pence and 26 pence Straight-line basis per share between 50% and 100% Between 18 pence and 22 Straight-line basis pence per share between 25% and 50% 58 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Executive share awards granted during the year employees of the Group to participate.
Under the SRSOS, employees Long-Term Performance Plan can save up to 250 per month for three or five years and receive options During the year the Company granted LTPP awards to the Executive to purchase the Companys shares at a discount of up to 20% on the Directors the 2011 12 LTPP.
The 2011 12 LTPP was based on an market value.
In March 2012, 1,623 employees 39.5% of those eligible allocation of ordinary shares equivalent in value to a maximum of 150% applied to participate in the fourth grant of options under the SRSOS at of base salary and is subject to three-year TSR and EPS performance an exercise price of 125 pence per share.
There is no re-testing of performance conditions.
Outstanding Executive share awards Performance conditions Long-Term Performance Plan Half of the 2011 12 LTPP will vest on the attainment of a performance In December 2010 the Company made awards under the LTPP target based on TSR over a three-year performance period commencing the2010 11 LTPP.
These awards were based on an allocation of 1 July 2011. ordinary shares equivalent in value to a maximum of 150% of base salary and are subject to three-year TSR and EPS performance The levels of vesting against the TSR targets are as follows: conditions.
Rank of Companys TSR against Level of vesting Performance conditions comparator group of TSR element Half of the 2010 11 LTPP will vest on the attainment of a performance Upper Quartile and above 100% target based on TSR over a three-year performance period commencing Median 25% 1 July 2010.
Below Median 0% Between Upper Quartile Straight-line basis The levels of vesting against the TSR targets are as follows: andMedian between 25% and 100% Rank of Companys TSR against Level of vesting comparator group of TSR element The other half of the 2011 12 LTPP will vest on the attainment of EPS Upper Quartile and above 100% targets for the financial year ending 30 June 2014.
The Committee believed given the macroeconomic uncertainties surrounding the Median 25% Groups future performance at that time, that a wide target range should Below Median 0% be set for the EPS element in order to ensure full engagement from Between Upper Quartile Straight-line basis andMedian between 25% and 100% management by having an achievable minimum vesting level whilst requiring outstanding performance to achieve maximum level of vesting.
Accordingly, the EPS targets and corresponding levels of vesting are The other half of the 2010 11 LTPP will vest on the attainment of EPS asfollows: targets for the financial year ending 30 June 2013.
The Committee believed given the macroeconomic uncertainties surrounding the Groups future Level of vesting performance at that time that a wide target range should be set for the EPS target Financial year 2013 14 of EPS element EPS element in order to ensure full engagement from management by 30 pence per share or higher 100% having an achievable minimum vesting level whilst requiring outstanding 12.5 pence per share 25% performance to achieve maximum level of vesting.
Accordingly, the EPS Below 12.5 pence per share 0% targets and corresponding levels of vesting are as follows: Between 12.5 pence Straight-line basis and 30 pence per share between 25% and 100% Level of vesting EPS target Financial year 2012 13 of EPS element In addition to the above performance targets, the 2011 12 LTPP is subject 25 pence per share or higher 100% to an overriding Committee discretion, in that the Committee must be 10 pence per share 25% satisfied that the underlying financial performance of the Group over the Less than 10 pence per share 0% performance period warrants the level of vesting as determined by Between 10 pence and Straight-line basis 25 pence per share between 25% and 100% applying the above targets.
If the Committee is not of this view, it has theauthority to reduce the level of vesting as it deems appropriate.
In addition to the above performance targets, the 2010 11 LTPP is subject Savings Related Share Option Scheme to an overriding Committee discretion, in that the Committee must be The Savings Related Share Option Scheme the SRSOS was satisfied that the underlying financial performance of the Group over the approved by shareholders at the AGM held in November 2008. performance period warrants the level of vesting as determined by applying the above targets.
If the Committee is not of this view, it has The SRSOS was implemented in order to promote share ownership theauthority to reduce the level of vesting as it deems appropriate.
amongst all employees of the Group, linking employee benefit to the performance of the Group and to aid retention of staff.
All employees and Executive Share Option Plan Executive Directors who work more than 25 hours per week, and have The award granted under the Executive Share Option Plan the ESOP five or more years of continuous service with the Company or any in2003 at an exercise price of 357.37 pence per share vested in 2006, subsidiary in the Group nominated to join in the SRSOS ending on the however, there are a number of participants, including Steven Boyes, date of grant are eligible to participate in the scheme.
The Board has whoare still to exercise the options granted to them.
discretion to reduce the period of qualifying service and to invite other BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 59 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT The ESOP was adopted by the Company in November 1997.
Any of each of the financial years during the performance period and each options granted under the ESOP are required to be held for a minimum years EPS target will determine the vesting level of one sixth of the total of three years from the date of grant before they can be exercised and award.
It should be noted that the approach of using three one-year will lapse if not exercised within ten years of the grant date.
The level targets was adopted due to the uncertain economic conditions ofvesting of these options was subject to the achievement of objective prevailing in 2009 when options under the ESOS were first granted.
performance conditions set by the Committee.
TheCommittee has since reverted back to the policy of setting three-year targets.
Under the rules of the ESOP no further options can be granted under this plan.
Options which have been granted to Executive Directors The EPS targets are before exceptional items and the impact of the inprevious years remain unchanged and are set out on page 65. reduction in the corporation tax rate from 28% to 24%.
The level of vesting for the financial years ended 30 June 2010, 2011 and 2012 Vesting of the 2009 10 ESOS wereas follows: The ESOS was approved by shareholders at the AGM held in November 2011 12 2010 11 2009 10 2008.
It was the view of the Committee that the focus on share price Amount of EPS Element growth arising from the use of market value options combined with Available for Vesting performance conditions would ensure strong alignment with the one third of 50% 16.67% 16.67% 16.67% interests and expectations of shareholders at the time.
Options awarded Minimum Target 5.8 pence 2.8 pence -4.4 pence under the ESOS must normally be held for a minimum of three years On Target 7.3 pence 4.3 pence -2.8 pence from the date of grant before they can be exercised and lapse if not Maximum Target 8.9 pence 7.3 pence 1.8 pence exercised within ten years of grant.
The maximum number of shares Achievement Against Target 100.0% 39.0% 57.6% over which an employee may be granted options in any financial year Actual Level of Vesting 16.7% 6.5% 9.6% under the ESOS will be limited so that the aggregate cost of exercise In 2010 the Company disclosed that 10.17% of the award had vested for the 2009 10 financial year.
Due does not exceed 200% of their annual base salary.
The exercise toachange in the Groups tax charge for that year, which was included in the 2010 published financial statements, the Companys EPS was marginally reduced.
Accordingly, the level of vesting was reduced to9.6%.
ofoptions granted under the ESOS is subject to the achievement ofobjective performance conditions set by the Committee.
Subject to the Committees overriding discretion to take into account, As the Committee has decided to grant awards under the LTPP for the among other factors, performance relative to the sector and the 2012 13 financial year it will not be making any grants under the ESOS underlying financial performance of the business, including free cash as an employee is not eligible to receive options under the ESOS and flow, when deciding if the level of vesting is justified, a cumulative total awards under the LTPP in the same financial year.
of32.8% of the award is likely to vest on 10 December 2012 being three years from the date of grant.
Executive Directors and the Senior The last grant made under the ESOS was the 2009 10 ESOS, which is Management will then have until 10 December 2019 to exercise their subject to TSR and EPS performance conditions.
The Committee chose options, otherwise they will lapse.
these targets as the most appropriate measure of financial performance for a house builder at the time of the grant, as they are a fundamental Executive share awards lapsed during the year measure of the Groups underlying performance and are directly linked Executive Share Option Scheme to the generation of returns to shareholders.
The options granted under the 2008 09 ESOS were subject to a Returnon Capital Employed ROCE financial performance measure, Performance conditions calculated as operating profit measured across the whole financial Half of the 2009 10 ESOS will vest on the attainment of a performance yearto 30 June 2011 divided by shareholder funds plus net debt less target based on relative TSR, and the other half on the attainment of goodwill and intangible assets being the average of the 12 month-end atarget based on EPS growth.
figures during the same year.
There is no opportunity to retest any performance criteria.
Levels of vesting against the TSR targets were as follows: The options were tested during the 2011 12 financial year and, as the Rank of Companys TSR against Level of vesting ROCE performance target had not been achieved, the options lapsed.
comparator group of TSR element Upper Quartile or above 100% Recruitment Award to Group Finance Director Median 25% The recruitment award made to David Thomas in recognition of his loss Below Median 0% of benefit under his previous employers long-term incentive and share Between Upper Quartile Straight-line basis option plans, which was subject to the same performance targets as andMedian between 25% and 100% theoptions granted under the 2008 09 ESOS and was on substantially the same terms and conditions as those options, was also tested and The TSR element was tested after 30 June 2012 and as the result lapsed after 30 June 2011. wasbelow median, none of the TSR element of the award will vest.
Dilution The EPS element of the award has three separate annual components On maturity or vesting of any of its share incentive schemes the Company with the Committee setting targets annually for the following financial seeks to satisfy the shares through: a new issue of shares: market year.
Performance against each annual EPS target is tested at the end purchases: or the Employee Benefit Trust the EBT.
As at 30 June 2012 60 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 the Company proposes to satisfy outstanding options under the 2009 10 Pension benefits ESOS, the SRSOS and the ESOP through a new issue of shares.
All other The Companys pension policy for Executive Directors is that they can share schemes, including the LTPP, are to be satisfied through shares choose to participate in the Companys money purchase pension plan currently held or to be purchased in the market by the EBT.
orreceive a cash supplement that does not count for incentive purposes.
Only the base salary element of a Directors remuneration is pensionable.
The Company regularly monitors the number of shares issued under The defined benefit section of the Barratt Group Pension and Life itsschemes and the impact on dilution limits.
The Company is satisfied Assurance Scheme the Scheme was closed to new entrants in 2001 that as at 30 June 2012 its usage of shares is compliant with the relevant and it ceased to offer future accrual of defined benefits for current dilution limits set by the ABI in respect of all share plans 10% of the members with effect from 30 June 2009.
Mark Clare is paid a cash Companys issued share capital in any rolling ten-year period and supplement equal to 30% of his base salary per annum.
David Thomas discretionary share plans 5% of the Companys issued share capital was, for the 2011 12 financial year, entitled to a cash supplement equal inany rolling ten-year period.
In the event that the outstanding options to25% of his base salary, 18.5% of which he received in cash and the under each of the schemes to be satisfied through a new issue of remaining 6.25% was paid into the defined contribution section of the shares were to vest and had been exercised on 30 June 2012, the Scheme.
For 2012 13 financial year David Thomas cash supplement resulting issue of new shares would represent 1.34% of the Companys hasbeen increased to 30% of base salary so that it corresponds with issued share capital as at that date.
therate given to the other Executive Directors.
Change of Control Up until 30 June 2009, when the defined benefit section of the Scheme The rules of each share scheme operated by the Company contain ceased to offer future accrual of defined benefits for current employees, provisions relating to a change of control.
In the event that a change Steven Boyes and Clive Fenton were members ofthe defined benefit ofcontrol does occur any unvested options awards will become vested section of the Scheme.
This entitlement was based on a 1 60 accrual onthe date of the relevant event.
However, the number of options rate and a normal retirement age of 65.
The entitlement of Clive Fenton awards that vest will be pro-rated depending on the number of weeks was restricted by the earnings cap imposed under the Finance Act completed within the relevant performance period and the level of 1989 for service up to 5 April 2006 and thereafter was calculated by performance conditions achieved during that period.
Options awards reference to his base salary.
Since 1July 2009, Steven Boyes and which have already vested as at the date of the relevant event may CliveFenton have been entitled to receive a cash supplement equal stillbe exercised within prescribed timescales set out in the rules.
to30% of their respective base salaries per annum.
Steven Boyes receives the full 30% as a cash supplement and, until his resignation Total Shareholder Return performance graph from the Board on 5 July 2012, Clive Fenton received 18.68% as a Figure 1, prepared in accordance with the Regulations, shows the TSR cash supplement and the remaining 11.32% was paid into the defined performance over the last five years against the FTSE 250 excluding contribution section of the Scheme.
investment trusts and against an index of listed house builders.
The Board has chosen these comparative indices as the Group and its The last full actuarial valuation of the Scheme as at 30 November 2010 major competitors are constituents of one or both of these indices.
showed a deficit of 66.5m calculated on the basis of the Schemes TheTSR has been calculated using a fair method in accordance technical provisions.
The Company and the Trustees of the Scheme have withthe Regulations.
agreed a plan to pay off the shortfall which requires the Company to continue to make deficit reduction payments of 13.3m per annum until Figure 1: 31 January 2017.
The valuation for the financial statements was updated to 30 June 2012 by a qualified independent actuary and adeficit of Total shareholder return 21.4m 2011: 11.8m is included in the Group balance sheet as shown Value in note 26 of the financial statements.
On 30 June 2009, the Company exercised its consent under the rules of the Scheme and agreed to cease 120 1 offering future accrual of defined benefits for its current employees.
100 Members of the Scheme became eligible to join the defined contribution 80 money purchase section of the Scheme with effect from 1July 2009.
2 60 The Company will continue to pay the deficit reduction contributions 40 at a level not lower than the 13.3m agreed in December 2008 and will 3 20 discuss the funding requirements ofthe Scheme with the Trustees if any 0 material change in the Groups financial circumstances isanticipated.
FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts Members of the Scheme are also eligible for an insured lump sum 2.
Index of listed house builders 3.
Barratt Developments ofupto five times pensionable salary on death in service.
Current employees who were members of the defined benefit section of the This graph shows the value by 30 June 2012 of 100 invested in Barratt Scheme at closure also retain their dependants pension entitlements.
Developments PLC on 30 June 2007 compared with the value of 100 investedin the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts.
As a supplementary source of information, we also show performance against an index of No excess retirement benefits have been paid to or are receivable by currently listed house builders excluding Barratt Developments PLC.
current and or past directors in respect of their qualifying services during The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
the financial year and there are no arrangements in place that guarantee pensions with limited or no abatement on severance or early retirement.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 61 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT Service contracts and the Senior Independent Director received an additional annual In accordance with the Companys policy, it engages all Executive feeof5,000.
In May 2012 the Board reviewed the roles of the Directors on the basis of one-year rolling contracts which can be Non-Executive Directors and decided that with effect from 1 July 2012 terminated by 12 months notice given byeither the Company orbythe allNon-Executive Directors would sit on each of its committees.
There are no specific provisions forcompensation Inrecognition of the additional time commitments this would entail on early termination except for payment in lieu ofholidays accrued but andtaking into consideration the results of a benchmarking exercise untaken or loss of office due toa takeover bid.
The Committee will apply undertaken by NBS on Non-Executive Directors fees, it was agreed mitigation against any contractual obligations as it deems fair and toincrease theNon-Executive Directors base annual fee to 48,000 reasonable and will seek legal advice on the Companys liability to pay with effect from thesame date.
It should be noted that this is the only compensation.
The Committee also seeks toreduce the level of any fee increase for Non-Executive Directors in the last four years and that compensation payable and takes into account, amongst other factors, the total fees, after theincrease, are still within the fee limits included in the individuals and the Groups performance: the Directors obligation the Articles of Association with the approval of shareholders at the 2008 tomitigate his her own loss: and the Directors length of service when annual general meeting.
TheNon-Executive Directors do not participate calculating termination payments.
The contracts entitle Executive in any performance related schemes such asthe annual bonus or any Directors to the provision of a company car, annual medical screening, incentive schemes, nor do they receive any pension or private medical private medical insurance, some telephone costs and contributions to insurance benefits.
the cost of obtaining independent tax advice.
Details ofthe Executive Directors service contracts are included in Table 3 and their emoluments The Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors are appointed are shown in Table 5 on page 63 of this RemunerationReport.
under terms set out in a letter of appointment.
They do not have service contracts and their appointments can be terminated by the Board Table 3 Executive Directors service contracts without compensation for loss of office and by giving the appropriate length of notice as prescribed in their respective letters of appointment.
Executive Service Effective Notice The notice period applicable for the Chairman, Bob Lawson, is three Director contract date date period months and for each of the other Non-Executive Directors the notice Mark Clare 27 June 2006 2 October 2006 12 months period is one month.
Under governance policies approved by the Board, David Thomas 5 May 2009 21 July 2009 12 months Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a three-year term and usually Steven Boyes 25 June 2001 1 July 2001 12 months serve a second three-year term subject to performance review and Clive Fenton 1 July 2003 1 July 2003 12 months re-election by shareholders.
Beyond this a further term of up to three Clive Fenton resigned as a Director of the Company on 5 July 2012 as set out on page 56 of this years may be served subject to rigorous review by the Chairman and RemunerationReport.
the Nomination Committee and re-election by shareholders.
Details of Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment can be found in Table 4.
Non-Executive directorships Subject to Board approval, Executive Directors are permitted to accept Table 4 Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment one Non-Executive directorship outside the Company and retain any fees received from such a position.
Executive Directors are not allowed Date first Date last to take on the Chairmanship of any FTSE 100 company.
Board approval Non-Executive Date last re-elected appointed re-appointed Director atAGM to the Board tothe Board will not be given for any Non-Executive position where such appointment Bob Lawson 16 November 2011 1 June 2008 1 June 2011 would lead to a material conflict of interest or would have an effect on Bob Davies 16 November 2011 5 May 2004 1 July 2011 theDirectors ability to perform his her duties to the Company.
During Tessa Bamford 16 November 2011 1 July 2009 1 July 2012 theyear Mark Clare was a trustee and Director of the BRE Trust and Rod UKGBC Limited.
Mark Clare does not receive any fees for either of these MacEachrane 16 November 2011 1 May 2006 1 July 2011 positions.
The time commitment expected, in aggregate, for these Mark Rolfe 16 November 2011 1 May 2008 1 May 2011 positions is approximately 25 hours per annum.
Neither David Thomas Richard Akers N A 2 April 2012 N A nor Steven Boyes held any Non-Executive directorships with other companies during the year.
Non-Executive Directors remuneration The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is set by the Board onthe recommendation of a Committee of Executive Directors having regard to the time commitment and responsibilities associated with therole.
The remuneration of the Chairman is set by the Board on the recommendation of the Committee again having regard to the time commitment and responsibilities of the role.
The remuneration of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors is reviewed annually taking intoaccount the feespaid by other companies in the house building sector.
The base annual fee paid to Non-Executive Directors during the financial year ended 30 June 2012 was 40,000.
The Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees received an additional annual fee of 10,000 62 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The following tables and accompanying notes constitute the auditable part of the Remuneration Report as defined in the Regulations: Table 5 Directors emoluments 2012 2011 Gain on Gain on Employers exercise of exercise of Pension pension Performance Benefits 2012 2011 share share Salary fee allowance contribution related in kind Total Total options options 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Mark Clare 643 193 956 38 1,830 1,221 13 David Thomas 408 77 25 607 15 1,132 748 Steven Boyes 390 117 580 26 1,113 744 13 Clive Fenton 390 73 44 27 534 747 11 Bob Lawson 270 270 270 Bob Davies 55 55 55 Tessa Bamford 40 40 40 Rod MacEachrane 40 40 40 Mark Rolfe 50 50 50 Richard Akers 10 10 2012 Total 2,296 460 69 2,143 106 5,074 37 2011 Total 2,298 487 42 1,007 93 3,927 Richard Akers joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 2 April 2012.
This figure includes 12,000 in relation to William Shannon who resigned as a Director of the Company on 21 October 2010.
These figures include fees in respect of Chairmanship of Board Committees and, in the case of Bob Davies, the fee for his role as Senior Independent Director.
Following Tessa Bamfords appointment as a consultant with Spencer Stuart on 18 April 2011, her fees are paid directly, on a quarterly basis, to Spencer Stuart.
For the year 1 July 2011 to 30 June 2012 inclusive, the Company paid the full 40,000 to Spencer Stuart for her services to the Board.
Clive Fenton resigned as a Director on 5 July 2012.
Details of the arrangements in respect of such resignation are set out on page 56 of this Remuneration Report.
The Executive Directors receive taxable benefits in kind covering the provision of a motor vehicle, private medical insurance, some telephone costsand payment towards the cost of obtaining independent tax advice.
There was no compensation for loss of office paid or any taxable expenses paid to any former or current Director of the Company during thefinancial year.
There were also no significant awards made to past directors during the reporting year.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 63 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT Directors interests in shares The interests of the Directors serving during the financial year and their connected persons in the ordinary share capital of the Company at the beginning and end of the year are shown below.
No notification has been received of any change in the interests below during the period 30 June 2012 to 11 September 2012 inclusive, with the exception of the shares to be deferred in respect of the bonus earned in excess of 100% of base salary by Executive Directors for the financial year ended 30 June 2012 as described on page 57 of the Remuneration Report and the lapsing ofoutstanding options held by Clive Fenton upon his resignation as a Director on 5 July 2012.
These figures include the options granted under the 2008 09 ESOS and the recruitment award made in 2009 to the Group Finance Director, as applicable, which were tested after the financial year ended 30 June 2011 and have lapsed.
In aggregate the figure as at 30 June 2011 in Table 6 includes 4,397,039 awards under the 2008 09 ESOS which have now lapsed.
All outstanding options and awards held by Clive Fenton lapsed on 5 July 2012 upon his resignation as a Director.
Table 7 Long-Term Incentive Schemes Details of movements in the Directors interests in executive long-term incentive schemes are as follows: Market Market At At Date price on price at Gain Date of 30 06 11 Granted Vested Lapsed 30 06 12 fromwhich award vesting receivable award No.
64 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Table 8 Directors share options Details of movements in the Directors interests in executive share options are as follows: Market price Date At At Exercise pence on from Date of 30 06 11 Granted Exercised Lapsed 30 06 12 price relevant date which Latest grant No.
The ESOS is divided into two sub-schemes, one of which is approved under the Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003 and the other of which is not.
The exercise price is calculated differently for each sub-scheme in accordance with the rules of the ESOS.
The performance conditions for the ESOS grants are described on page 60.
The performance conditions of the 2008 09 ESOS awards together with the performance condition of the recruitment award to the Group Finance Director made in 2009 were tested after the year end and none of the conditions had been achieved.
Accordingly, the 2008 09 ESOS awards and the recruitment award to the Group Finance Director lapsed.
The mid-market share price of the Company on 30 June 2012 was 139.1 pence.
The mid-market high and low share prices of the Company during theyear were 151.5 pence and 67.5 pence respectively.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 65 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT Table 9 Directors pension benefits Steven Boyes and Clive Fenton were members of the Scheme during the year ended 30 June 2012.
Details of their accrued benefits are as follows: Transfer value of the increase in accrued pension Increase in over the year to accrued pension 30 June 2012 Increase in over the year to Total pension net of inflation accrued pension Transfer value of Transfer value of 30 June 2012 accrued at the less Directors over the year to accrued pension accrued pension at Change in transfer net of inflation end of the year contributions 30 June 2012 at 30 June 2012 30 June 2011 value over the year Steven Boyes 192 299,595 4,431 15,706 6,252,591 4,477,540 1,775,051 Clive Fenton 31 45,765 664 2,397 880,815 642,697 238,118 Notes With effect from 30 June 2009, the Scheme ceased to offer future accrual of defined benefit pensions for current employees and the link between accrued benefits and future salary increases was removed.
As the Scheme is closed, no Directors have made any contributions to the Scheme during the year to 30 June 2012.
The total pension accrued at the end of the year is the amount that each Director had accrued when the Scheme ceased to offer future accrual at30June 2009 plus revaluation in accordance with the Scheme rules.
The inflation figure of 5.6% is based on the change in RPI from September 2010 to September 2011, consistent with previous years.
All transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with the Occupational Pension Schemes Transfer Value Amendment Regulations 2008.
The transfer values of the accrued pension represent the value of assets that the pension scheme would need totransfer to another pension provider on transferring the Schemes liability in respect of the Directors pension benefits.
They do not represent sums payable to individual Directors and, therefore, cannot be added meaningfully to annual remuneration.
The increase in the transfer value includes the effect of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company and itsDirectors, such as market movements and the Trustees decision to update the assumptions used.
The figures do not take account of any retained benefits the members may have.
Except as disclosed in respect of Clive Fenton and David Thomas on pages 61 and 63, none of the Directors have any rights under the Companys money purchase pension scheme.
This Remuneration Report was approved by the Board on 11 September 2012 and signed on its behalf by: Robert Davies NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 11 September 2012 66 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012
