Corporate governance continued Roles The Groups terms of reference for the Chairman and the Chief Executive are such as to clearly establish the division of responsibility between the two roles.
Summaries of those roles, and that of the Senior Independent Director, are set out in the table below.
Role Description Phil Whites principal responsibilities are: t to establish, in conjunction with the Chief Executive, the strategic objectives of the Group, for approval by the Board Chairman t to organise the business of the Board t to enhance the standing of the Company by communicating with shareholders, the financial community and the Groups stakeholders generally Mark Allan has responsibility for: t establishing, in conjunction with the Chairman, the strategic objectives of the Group, for approval Chief Executive by the Board t implementing the Groups business plan and annual budget t the overall operational and financial performance of the Group As Senior Independent Director, Stuart Beevors principal responsibilities are to: t act as Chairman of the Board if the Chairman is conicted t act as a conduit to the Board for the communication of shareholder concerns if other channels Senior Independent Director of communication are inappropriate t ensure that the Chairman is provided with effective feedback on his performance These responsibilities will be taken-on by Manjit Wolstenholme when she becomes Senior Independent Director following the annual general meeting.
HOW THE BOARD OPERATES Meetings Details of the number of meetings of the Board and its Committees held during the year and attendance of Directors at those meetings are set out in the table on p. 47.
The Board approves annually a schedule of matters to be considered at each meeting and at each meeting of its Committees.
Meetings are normally held in Bristol or London and, when appropriate, at different regional locations.
Board meetings are structured around the following areas: t Operational, property and functional updates t Financial updates t Strategy and risk t Other reporting Senior Executives are regularly invited to attend meetings for specic items.
Responsibility and delegation A schedule of specic matters is reserved for the Board.
Those include: t Approving the strategic objectives of the Group and the business plan to achieve those objectives t Approving major investments, acquisitions, mergers and divestments t Approving appointments to and dismissals from the Board t Reviewing systems of internal control and risk management t Approving policies relating to Directors remuneration 44 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Business Governance Financial Other review statements information Board Committees The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to its Committees, as detailed on the following pages.
The terms of reference for each Committee are reviewed annually and the current versions are available on the Companys website at www.
The current membership of each Committee of the Board is set out below and full details of attendance at Committee meetings can be found in the table on p. 47.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Health & Safety Phil White 99 Stuart Beevor 99 9 Sir Tim Wilson 999 9 Richard Walker 99 99 Manjit Wolstenholme 9 99 Andrew Jones 999 Mark Allan 9 Denotes Chairman.
Will become Chair of the Remuneration Committee following the annual general meeting.
Set out below are sections describing the work of the Committees in discharging their respective functions: Audit Committee: see the Audit Committee Report on p. 48 Nomination Committee: see the Nomination Committee report on p. 64 Remuneration Committee: see the Remuneration Committee Report on p. 52 Health & Safety Committee The Health & Safety Committee was established in June 2012 and is chaired by Richard Walker.
Its other members are Sir Tim Wilson and Mark Allan.
Richard Simpson Managing Director Property, and Richard Smith Managing Director Operations, together with the Group Head of Health & Safety, are also invited to attend meetings of the Committee.
The role of the Health & Safety Committee is to: t Ensure that the Groups policies, procedures and working practices regarding health and safety meet or exceed legal obligations t Annually review the Groups Health & Safety Policy t Ensure that the Board is kept abreast of any regulatory changes in relation to health and safety and environmental issues and the impact such changes may have on the business of the Group t To receive reports as to Business Unit health and safety and environmental performance, policies and arrangements and any major health and safety incidents so as to ensure that management identies and implements any corrective action considered appropriate.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control.
However, such a system is designed to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement.
The provisions of the Code in respect of internal controls require that Directors review all controls including operational, compliance and risk management, as well as financial control.
Through reports from the Groups Risk and Health & Safety Committees and from the Groups Business Units, the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls for the period covered by the annual report and accounts and has concluded that such controls were effective throughout such period.
Further information on the Companys internal control framework is set out in the Audit Committee Report.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 45 Corporate governance continued Board tenure Each of the Executive Directors has a rolling contract, of employment with 12 month notice periods, whilst Non-Executive Directors are, subject to re-election by shareholders, appointed to the Board for a term of approximately three years.
In accordance with the recommendations of the Code, the Directors will all retire at the annual general meeting and other than Stuart Beevor who, after serving for nine years, will retire from Board at the annual general meeting, will submit themselves for re-election by shareholders.
The graph below shows the current balance of tenure of the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman.
Key 0-3 years 3-6 years 6-9 years Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The Board considers each of its five Non-Executive Directors to be independent.
Accordingly, the Company meets the requirement of the Code in relation to members of the FTSE 350 that at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman, is made-up of independent Non-Executive Directors.
In addition, Phil White Chairman of the Board was considered independent on his appointment to that role.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy and bring strong, independent judgement, knowledge and experience to the Boards deliberations.
Non-Executive Directors are expected to commit approximately 20 days per annum to the business of the Group.
Professional advice and board support Directors are given access to independent professional advice at the Companys expense when the Directors deem it necessary in order for them to carry out their responsibilities.
The Directors also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Board and who ensures that Board processes and corporate governance practices are followed.
Insurance The Company maintains Directors and Ofcers liability insurance, which is renewed on an annual basis.
EFFECTIVENESS Induction On appointment each Director takes part in a comprehensive induction programme during which they: t Receive information concerning all aspects of the Group t Meet representatives of the Companys key advisors t Receive information about the role of the Board and matters reserved for its decisions: the terms of reference and membership of Board Committees: and powers delegated to those Committees t Receive information about the Companys corporate governance practices and procedures and the latest financial information about the Group t Are advised of their legal and other duties and obligations as a Director of a listed company.
This is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with key senior executives.
Performance evaluation A formal independent evaluation exercise in relation to the Board and its Committees was undertaken in 2011 by Fon Hague Independent Board Evaluation which has no other connection with the Company.
The results of that evaluation indicated that the Board and its Committees, generally, operated effectively, although certain recommendations were made and subsequently implemented.
During 2012, Non-Executive Directors and the Board as a whole considered the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
The evaluation of the effectiveness of the Executive Directors was carried out as part of the annual appraisal procedure by the Chief Executive in the case of the other executive Directors and by the Chairman in the case of the Chief Executive.
A formal internal review of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees will be carried out in 2013.
46 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Business Governance Financial Other review statements information Board and Committee and attendance at meetings in 2012 Date of Health Current Appointment Audit Remuneration Nomination & Safety Directors Status to the Board Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Phil White Chairman 21.01.09 11 N A 5 2 N A Stuart Beevor 01.03.04 11 4 5 2 N A Independent Sir Tim Wilson Independent 01.12.10 11 4 5 2 2 Richard Walker Independent 03.11.05 11 4 5 2 2 Manjit Wolstenholme 01.12.11 11 4 5 2 N A Independent Mark Allan Executive 17.11.03 10 N A N A N A 2 Joe Lister Executive 02.01.08 11 N A N A N A N A Richard Simpson 01.01.12 11 N A N A N A N A Executive Richard Smith Executive 01.01.12 11 N A N A N A N A Director who stepped down in the year 06.03.06 Nigel Hall resigned 22 2 N A Independent 17.05.12 INVESTOR RELATIONS The Board attaches a high priority to effective communication with shareholders and with other providers of capital to the business and welcomes their views insofar as they are relevant to the Groups approach to corporate governance.
In addition to the final and interim presentations, a series of meetings between institutional shareholders other providers of capital and senior management was held throughout 2012.
The Board and, in particular, the Non-Executive Directors, are made aware of the views of major shareholders concerning the Company through, amongst other means, regular analysts and broker briengs and surveys of shareholder opinion.
That process will continue throughout 2013.
The Company maintains a corporate website containing a wide range of information of interest to institutional and private investors.
The Company has frequent discussions with shareholders on a range of issues affecting its performance, both following the Companys announcements and in response to specic requests.
The Company regularly seeks feedback on perception of the Company amongst its shareholders, the investor community more broadly and its stakeholders.
Save in exceptional circumstances, all members of the Board attend the Companys annual general meetings and shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting and to meet with Directors prior to and after the formal proceedings.
At the meeting, the Chairman reviews the Groups current trading.
The results of the votes at the annual general meetings, together with details of the level of proxy votes lodged for each resolution is made available on a regulatory information service and on the Companys website at www.
Notice of the annual general meeting is set out on p. 108.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 47 Audit Committee report AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Dear shareholder On the following pages are set out the Audit Committees Report for 2012.
The Report comprises four sections: t Committee overview t Activities in 2012 t Auditors t Internal control Throughout 2012, the Audit Committee continued to monitor the integrity of the Groups financial statements: to assist the Board in reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal control and risk management systems: and to review arrangements for its employees to raise concerns in confidence.
The Committee works to a structured programme of activities, with agenda items focused to coincide with key events in the annual financial reporting cycle.
The Committee reports regularly to the Board on its work and has made recommendations to the Board concerning the re-appointment and remuneration of the external auditor.
Manjit Wolstenholme Chair of Audit Committee 6 March 2013 48 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Business Governance Financial Other review statements information COMMITTEE OVERVIEW Composition The Committee is comprised entirely of Non-Executive Directors.
The current members are: t Manjit Wolstenholme Chair t Stuart Beevor t Richard Walker t Sir Tim Wilson t Andrew Jones appointed 1 February 2013 Manjit Wolstenholme is a Chartered Accountant, having qualied with Coopers & Lybrand now .
She was formally a Director and Co-Head of Investment Banking at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein.
Biographical details of the members of the Committee, including their qualications, are set out on p. 41.
Full details of attendance at meetings of the Committee can be found in the table on p. 47.
At the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee, the Chairman, the Group CFO, the external auditors KPMG and representatives of senior management regularly attend Committee meetings.
Committee members have the opportunity to meet privately with the external auditors as required.
Role The role of the Committee is to: t Review the actions and judgements of management in relation to the Groups financial statements, operating and financial reviews, preliminary announcements, interim reports and related formal statements t Review the effectiveness of the Groups systems for internal financial control, financial reporting and risk management t Review the Companys procedures for 'whistle blowing', ensuring that arrangements are in place by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about, amongst other things, improprieties in matters of financial reporting and financial control t Consider annually whether there is a need for an internal audit function t Consider and make recommendations on the appointment, removal and remuneration of the external auditor.
ACTIVITIES IN 2012 In 2012, the activities of the Committee included: t Reviewing the Groups financial statements including the format and layout of the detailed disclosures t Reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies t Reviewing the Groups cash ow forecasts and facilities to support the going concern statement in the annual report t Reviewing and approving the annual external audit process, the external auditors strategy and plan for the audit, considering the findings of that work and conrming that all significant matters had been satisfactorily resolved t Reviewing the management letter arising from the 2011 year-end external audit and monitoring implementation of recommended improvements t Monitoring the non-audit services provided to the Group by the external auditor t Reviewing the results of the review undertaken of the Groups risk management processes t Considering the need for an internal audit function within the Group t Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and its whistle blowing process t Reviewing processes for the prevention of bribery and fraud t Considering the performance and effectiveness of the external auditor t Considering the performance and effectiveness of the Committee itself Having reviewed the Groups existing internal control systems including an operational compliance audit regime, and the size and activities of the Group, it was not considered necessary to establish a full internal audit function.
However, a 'co-sourced' internal audit model was introduced during the year, involving the hiring of internal resource, working in conjunction with external providers.
The effectiveness and appropriateness of that model will be kept under review by the Committee.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 49 Audit Committee report continued AUDITORS Independence and Objectivity The Committee regularly monitors the other services provided to the Group by its external auditor and has developed a formal policy to ensure this does not impair their independence or objectivity.
Pursuant to that policy, differentiation is made between i work that would be inappropriate for the external auditors to perform: ii work that is clearly audit-related or required to be performed by the Companys external auditors: iii work that is often cost effectively performed by the external auditor as a result of its unique position and knowledge of the Company: and iv other work.
In relation to category i, the Committee will not support the use of the external auditor for any services deemed to be incompatible with auditor independence by professional or government regulations.
For category ii work, management has discretion to use the external auditor without prior consultation with the Committee, although the nature of the work and the associated fees are regularly reported to the Committee.
For category iii work, management has discretion to use the audit rm without prior consultation with the Committee for any piece of work for which the individual fee does not exceed 50,000.
Where the cumulative fees for this category of work are expected to exceed the budgeted annual audit fee in any year, or an individual fee exceeds 50,000, the Chairman of the Committee will be consulted.
For category iv work, management would normally review a range of possible suppliers of such services and select the most appropriate supplier.
If management identies the external auditor as the best supplier in a specic eld and also believes that such assignment would not prejudice the independence of the external auditor, then an evaluated request is made to the Committee to confirm the appointment on any matter involving fees in excess of 10,000.
The Committee also reviews any potential threat to the objectivity and independence of the external auditor, including, in particular, those potential threats identied by the Auditing Practices Board in its independence guidelines.
The Committee determines and then reports to the Board, whether or not it is satisfied that the independence of the external auditor is not jeopardised, taking into account the external auditors own submissions to the Committee and or the Board.
Details of the remuneration paid to the external auditor are set out in the table below: 2012 2011 Auditor's remuneration m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys financial statements 0.2 0.1 Fees payable to the Companys auditors for other services the audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 taxation compliance services 0.2 0.2 taxation advisory services 0.2 0.2 corporate finance services 0.1 It is anticipated that the level of fees paid to the audit rm in relation to taxation will reduce in future years following the completion of a one-off tax project within the Group.
The fees paid to the audit rm in relation to corporate finance services related to the issue by the Company of a retail bond during the course of the year.
The senior audit partner and the independent reviewing partner serve no more than five years continuously in either role and other key partners serve no longer than seven consecutive years.
The Committee monitors the tenure of partners and senior staff.
Performance The Committee performs a specic evaluation of the performance of the external auditor annually, through assessment of the results of questionnaires completed by relevant senior management, in addition to Committee members own views of auditor performance.
Re-appointment During the year, the Committee reviewed the tenure of the external auditor KPMG Audit Plc has been UNITEs auditor since 1999, its performance, the level of audit fees paid to the external auditor and the level of non-audit work undertaken by the external auditor.
Following that review, the Committee recommended to the Board that a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc for a further year as the Companys auditor be proposed to shareholders at the 2012 annual general meeting.
The resolution was passed and KPMG Audit Plc was re-appointed for a further year.
A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc for a further year is to be proposed at this years annual general meeting.
50 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Business Governance Financial Other review statements information INTERNAL CONTROL The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and for regularly reviewing the effectiveness of those systems.
The Committee assists the Board in reviewing such systems which include, amongst other things, the following: Financial reporting The Group has a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual business plan approved by the Board.
Operating results and cash ows are reported on monthly and compared against budget.
Forecasts are reviewed throughout the year and revised as necessary.
The Company reports to shareholders on a half-yearly basis.
Investment appraisal The Company has clearly dened guidelines for capital expenditure.
These include annual budgets, detailed appraisal and review procedures, levels of authority and due diligence requirements where investment or development properties are being acquired.
Post-investment appraisals are performed for major investments.
Risk management The Executive Team of UNITE has established a Risk Committee, which is chaired by Joe Lister, the Group CFO.
During 2012, the other members of the Risk Committee were Richard Simpson Managing Director Property, Richard Smith Managing Director Operations, Paul Harris Strategy and Corporate Relations Director, Mark Creedy Managing Director Fund Management, Andrew Reid Company Secretary and Group Legal officer and Stephen Taylor external consultant.
The Risk Committee is responsible for the delivery of the Groups Risk Management Framework, which includes: t Managing the governance structure for risk management and reporting on risk management matters to the Board and the Audit Committee t Reviewing and challenging management plans for key Group and functional risks t Managing procedures for monitoring and escalation of key risks t Embedding a culture of risk ownership throughout the Group.
Through the work of the Risk Committee, the Board, having during the year reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal control systems, is satisfied with the high level risk management controls in place, although all areas of the business are kept under review and new controls introduced as appropriate.
An analysis of the more important risks and uncertainties faced by the Group is set out on p. 38 and p. 39.
The Groups objectives and policies with regard to the management of financial risks are set out in note 4.5 to the Financial Statements.
APPROVAL The Audit Committee Report was approved by the Board on 6 March 2013 and signed on its behalf by Manjit Wolstenholme.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51 Directors' remuneration report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Dear Shareholder, The Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 is set out on the following pages.
The Report comprises five sections: t Committee overview t Remuneration Policy t Delivering Remuneration Policy t Non-Executive Directors t Detailed audited disclosures In preparing this Report, the Remuneration Committee has complied with the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts & Reports Regulations 2008.
The Report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the Principles of Good Governance in relation to Directors remuneration.
While we have not made any significant changes to remuneration arrangements this year, we have amended the performance metrics within the annual bonus scheme for Executive Directors to further improve alignment with investors details of which are set out below.
In this Report, we have also incorporated a number of the proposals on disclosure that have been tabled by the Department for Business Innovation & Skills BIS.
2012 was another excellent year for the Group, evidenced by strong financial and operating performance.
As a result, Executive Directors will receive bonuses ranging between 83% and 91.3% of their respective base salaries out of a maximum of 144% of salary.
The Committee is satisfied that these bonuses reect the Executives contribution to the underlying performance of the Company over the last year.
After slightly more than nine years as a Non-Executive Director with UNITE, I shall be retiring from the Board at the annual general meeting.
At that stage, Richard Walker will become Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and I wish him well in that role.
A resolution to approve this Remuneration Report will be put to shareholders at the annual general meeting.
Stuart Beevor Chairman Remuneration Committee 6 March 2013 52 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 O Ov ver ervie view w Str Strat ate eg gy y Bu Busi sin ne ess ss G Gove over rn na an nc ce e Financial Financial Ot Oth he er r re revie view w sta stat temen ements ts inf info or rm ma at tion ion COMMITTEE OVERVIEW Composition The current members of the Committee are: t Stuart Beevor Chairman t Phil White t Richard Walker t Sir Tim Wilson t Manjit Wolstenholme t Andrew Jones as from 1 February 2013 All of the above are independent Non-Executive Directors other than Phil White, who is Chairman of the Board.
Stuart Beevor will, by the time of the annual general meeting, have served nine years in ofce and will then step down from the Board.
At that time, Richard Walker will become Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Full details of attendance at Committee meetings can be found in the table on p. 47.
Advisors The Committee obtains advice from various sources in order to ensure it makes informed decisions.
The Committees main external advisors are set out below: Advisor Area of advice Kepler Associates Independent advisors on remuneration policy and the external remuneration environment: salary benchmarking data: and performance testing for long term incentive plans.
Kepler reports directly to the Committee Chairman and is a signatory to the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants a copy of which can be found at www.
Kepler provides no other services to the Company.
Osborne Clark Legal advisors in relation to share scheme rules, service contracts and employment matters.
Osborne Clarke also provides more general legal advice to the Group.
In addition, certain Executives, including Mark Allan Chief Executive and Nicola Yates Group HR Director, are, from time to time, invited to attend meetings of the Committee.
No individuals are involved in decisions relating to their own remuneration.
Role The primary role of the Committee is to: t Review, recommend and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for the Executive Directors and other senior executives t Approve the remuneration packages for the Executive Directors t Determine the balance between base pay and performance related elements of the package so as to align Directors interests to those of shareholders.
The Committees terms of reference are set out on the Companys website.
Activities in the year The Committees activities during the year included: t Finalising bonus payments in respect of 2011 as disclosed in the 2011 Remuneration Report t Reviewing the base salaries of the Executive Directors and those of senior management for 2012 t Setting LTIP performance targets in line with the Companys strategic plan t Setting performance targets in line with the Companys strategic plan for the 2012 bonus plan and determining the amounts payable t Agreeing termination arrangements for those individuals within the senior executive group whose employment ceased.
REMUNERATION POLICY The Group aims to balance the need to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors and other senior executives of an appropriate calibre with the need to be cost effective, whilst at the same time rewarding exceptional performance.
The Committee has designed a remuneration policy that balances those factors, taking account of prevailing best practice, investor expectations and the level of remuneration and pay awards made generally to employees of the Group.
In addition to the above, the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and other senior executives is based on the following key principles: t A significant proportion of remuneration should be tied to the achievement of specic and stretching performance conditions that align remuneration with the creation of shareholder value and the delivery of the Groups strategic plan t There should be a focus on sustained long term performance, with performance measured over clearly specified timescales, encouraging executives to take action in line with the Groups strategic plan, using good business management principles and taking well considered risks t Individuals should be rewarded for success, but steps should be taken, within contractual obligations, to prevent rewards for failure.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 53 Directors' remuneration report continued Components of reward The reward package for Executive Directors and other senior executives consists of a combination of xed and variable elements intended to provide motivation and reward for short, medium and long term performance and to retain key executives over the longer term.
Each component is intended to full a different function within the remuneration framework as set out in the table below: Function Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Changes for 2013 Fixed pay Base salary Base salaries are reviewed Any base salary increases None No changes to the policy from time to time, with are applied in line with the for 2013 To recognise the individuals reference to salary levels for outcome of the annual skills and experience and to Latest salary increases similar roles at comparable review as part of which the provide a competitive base were effective from 1 March companies, to individual Committee also considers reward 2013 and are set out in the contribution to performance: average increases across relevant section on p. 56 and to the experience of the Group each Executive Pension All Executives are either Executive Directors receive None No change members of The UNITE a pension contribution of To provide an opportunity Group Personal Pension 20% of salary or an for executives to build up scheme or receive a cash equivalent cash allowance income on retirement pension allowance Variable pay Performance Related Performance measures, For Executive Directors, the Performance measures Maximum opportunities Annual Bonus targets and weightings are maximum annual bonus used for the 2012 under the corporate and set at the start of the year.
opportunity is 144% of base Performance Related individual elements will To incentivise and reward The scheme has two salary, comprising: Annual Bonus and remain unchanged.
Some strong performance against elements: a corporate proposed for 2013 are changes have been made financial and non-financial t A maximum bonus under element and an individual set out on p. 56 and p. 57 to the measures under the annual targets, thus the corporate element of multiplier element corporate element see p. 57 delivering value to 120% of salary: achieving for details, but the shareholders and being At the end of the year, the on-target performance weighting between financial consistent with the delivery Remuneration Committee warrants a bonus and non-financial measures of the strategic plan determines the extent to equivalent to 70% remains the same.
which targets have been of salary achieved t A maximum multiplier under the individual element of 1.2, with a range of zero to 1.2 LTIP To drive sustained long term The LTIP comprises a The LTIP provides for an Awards are subject to a No change performance that supports Performance Share Plan award up to a normal minimum vesting period of the creation of shareholder PSP and an Approved aggregate limit of 150% three years.
Awards made value Employee Share Option of salary for Executive to Executive Directors in Scheme ESOS Directors, with an overall 2012 and 2013 will vest as limit of 200% of salary in to two-thirds after three The ESOS is used to deliver exceptional circumstances years and one-third after a proportion of the LTIP in four years a tax-efficient manner, and For LTIP participants below is subject to the same Board level, the maximum Performance measures performance conditions annual LTIP opportunity used for the 2011 and as awards made under is capped at 100% of 2012 LTIP award are set the PSP base salary out on p. 58 Award levels and performance conditions are reviewed before each award cycle to ensure they remain appropriate and no less stretching than the first cycle Further details of how these components are delivered are set out below in the section headed Delivering Remuneration Policy.
54 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Stretch Target Fixed O Ov ver ervie view w Str Strat ate eg gy y Bu Busi sin ne ess ss G Gove over rn na an nc ce e Financial Financial Ot Oth he er r re revie view w sta stat temen ements ts inf info or rm ma at tion ion The charts below show the remuneration that Executive Directors could be expected to obtain based on three different performance scenarios.
Other EDs CFOs CEOs Other EDs CFOs CEOs Other EDs CFOs CEOs Key Salary Pension Bonus LTP Minimum performance assumes nil payout under all incentives.
Target performance assumes bonus payout of 70% of salary and LTIP threshold vesting at 25% of maximum award.
Stretch performance assumes full payout of all incentives.
Share price appreciation has not been included in the calculation.
Broadly there is a 52%:48% split between xed and variable pay at target performance and a 29%:71% split at stretch performance, showing the high proportion of performance related pay that is 'at risk' in the total remuneration package.
Remuneration policy for other employees Our approach to annual salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the level of experience, responsibility, individual performance and salary levels in comparable companies.
All employees are eligible to participate in an annual bonus scheme with similar metrics to those used for the Executive Directors.
Opportunities and specic performance conditions vary by organisational level with business area-specic metrics incorporated where appropriate.
Senior managers c. 25 individuals are eligible to participate in the LTIP.
Performance conditions are consistent for all participants, while award sizes vary by organisational level.
All employees are eligible to participate in the Companys SAYE scheme on the same terms.
Exit payment policy The Companys policy is to limit severance payments on termination to pre-established contractual arrangements.
Such contracts contain no specic provision for compensation for loss of ofce, other than an obligation to pay for any notice period waived by the Company, where pay is dened as salary plus benets only.
In the event an executive leaves for reasons of death, ill-health, redundancy, retirement, or any other reason the awards will be pro-rated for time.
For all other leavers, outstanding LTIP awards will lapse.
The Committee retains discretion to alter these provisions on a case-by-case basis following a review of circumstances and to ensure fairness for both shareholders and participants.
Shareholder alignment The Committee continues to recognise the importance of Executive Directors aligning their interests with shareholders through building up a significant shareholding in the Company.
Shareholding guidelines are in place that require Executive Directors to acquire a holding excluding shares held conditionally pursuant to LTIP awards, equivalent to 200% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 150% of base salary for each of the other Executive Directors.
Until the relevant shareholding levels are acquired, 50% of the annual bonus payable to the relevant Director is satisfied by an allocation of shares in the Company, which are held in its Employee Share Ownership Trust the ESOT.
Subject to the Directors continued employment within the Group, such shares are transferred to the Director on the third anniversary of the original allocation.
Details of the Executive Directors current personal shareholdings are shown in the table on p. 63.
