The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2012 33 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual the Group and Companys transactions and disclose with Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure regulations.
that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act Company law requires the directors to prepare financial 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible directors have prepared the Group and Parent Company for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group financial statements in accordance with International and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are Statement of Directors Responsibilities under satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of DTR 4.1.
12 affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or Each of the directors, who are listed on page 19, confirms loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these that, to the best of his or her knowledge: financial statements, the directors are required to: the Group financial statements, which have been select suitable accounting policies and then apply them prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the consistently: EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, make judgements and accounting estimates that are financial position and profit of the Group: and reasonable and prudent: the Report of the Directors in this Report and Financial state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the Statements includes a fair review of the development and European Union have been followed, subject to any performance of the business and the position of the material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and Company, together with a description of the financial statements: and principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group For and on behalf of the Board and Company will continue in business.
Richard Brewster The directors are responsible for keeping adequate Chairman accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain 18 January 2013 The financial statements are published on the www.
com website, which is a website maintained by the Companys Manager, Henderson Group plc Henderson.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by Henderson or any of its subsidiaries is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of Henderson.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this website and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
