Governance Directors remuneration report This report has been prepared by the remuneration committee the committee of Beazley plc and approved by the board of Beazley plc.
The report complies with the large and medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
The symbol by a heading indicates that the information in that section has been audited.
Dear shareholder In the following pages the committees report on directors remuneration for 2012 is presented.
Beazleys performance for 2012 was very strong, delivering a pre-tax profit of $251.2m 2011: $62.7m, against a background of continued competition and macro-economic uncertainty.
Market conditions have continued to place emphasis on the skill of our underwriters in identifying profitable underwriting opportunities.
The business has also sought to continue top line growth through investments we have made in launching innovative new products and building our underwriting teams.
This success reects our greatest asset: our people.
Talent management is one of the cornerstones of Beazleys business success, as we seek to recruit and retain people who rank among the best insurance professionals in the world.
Against that background, ensuring Beazley has a competitive remuneration mix that rewards sustainable performance remains important to our future success.
Our executive remuneration policy is governed by two guiding principles alignment to shareholder interests and performance of the group.
The committee considers the overall package to be appropriate, responsible and balanced.
The committee regularly reviews whether our approach to remuneration is consistent with and takes account of the risk prole of the company.
The committee receives an annual report from the chief risk officer on remuneration policy to ensure it is consistent with and promotes effective risk management.
We seek to incorporate best-practice characteristics into all of our remuneration elements.
These include: bonus deferral: three and five year long term incentive plan LTIP performance periods: clawback of deferred bonus and LTIP awards: and LTIP vesting dependent on shareholding guidelines.
Following consultation with a majority of our shareholders, we have made material increases to the salaries of two of our executive directors.
In both cases the increase reects our policy of a lower starting salary on appointment and follows development and sustained performance in their roles.
The salary increases for other executive directors were below the average increases throughout the organisation.
Our bonus framework is aligned to group performance.
In order to reect best practice developments, for 2013 we will be introducing an individual overall bonus cap, as well as an individual cap on the level of cash bonus.
We undertook extensive consultation with our major shareholders in relation to a share award for our head of marine.
The marine division has made a sustained outstanding contribution to the group over several years, and the head of marines incentive reward opportunity is to reduce for 2013 onwards.
The proposed award, for which we are seeking shareholder approval at the forthcoming AGM, is an award of shares vesting over three and five years subject to divisional return on equity performance targets.
The committee recognises that a proposal of this nature should only be considered on an exceptional basis, but believes that it meets the best interests of shareholders.
Our engagement with shareholders shaped the form of the final proposals and I would like to thank all those who took part in the consultation.
We remain committed to employees throughout the organisation having an opportunity to share in Beazleys success.
A new Save As You Earn SAYE plan, which maintains the same features as the current scheme, was approved in 2012.
We are keen to encourage an ongoing dialogue on our policies and continue to welcome our shareholders views.
Padraic OConnor Remuneration committee chairman 6 February 2013 Beazley Annual report 2012 67 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Summary of remuneration elements The main elements of the remuneration package payable to each executive director comprise basic salary, short-term incentive payments, pension contributions, long-term share-based incentives and other benets.
A summary of the key elements of remuneration for executive directors across the group is as follows: Executive directors Element Objective Summary Base salary To recognise responsibilities Reviewed annually.
For 2013, following consultation with shareholders, Martin Bride and Adrian Cox received material salary increases which reected their director responsibilities and development in the role.
The average salary increase for other executive directors was 2.5%.
Enterprise bonus To link reward to group profit and Incentive pool calculated as a percentage of profit subject to a minimum return on equity return on equity target.
Portion deferred into shares for three years between 0% and 35% of bonus dependent on level of bonus.
From 2013 an individual overall cap of 400% of salary will apply.
Cash bonuses will normally be capped at 250% of salary with any amount above this deferred into shares.
LTIP To align the senior management Awards of 200% of salary for CEO and 150% of salary for other team to the out-performance of executive directors.
the group by setting stretching performance targets over the 50% of an award is subject to performance over three years and 50% longer term over five years.
From 2012 onwards, the performance conditions are as follows: Vesting dependent on net asset value per share NAVps performance against the risk-free rate.
No vesting if NAVps growth risk-free rate 7.5% p. a.
10% vest if NAVps growth risk-free rate 7.5% p. a.
25% vest if NAVps growth risk-free rate 10% p. a.
100% vest if NAVps growth risk-free rate 15% p. a. Straight-line vesting between points.
Shareholding To align with shareholders Shareholding requirements as part of the LTIP of 200% of salary for CEO requirements interests and 150% of salary for other executive directors.
Investment in To align personal capital with Executive directors and selected staff may voluntarily defer part of their underwriting underwriting performance bonuses into an underwriting syndicate.
Capital commitments can be lost if underwriting performance is poor.
Benets To provide market levels Benets include a company car or car allowance, private medical of benets insurance and permanent health insurance.
Pension To provide market levels Dened contribution of 15% of salary for executive directors.
of pension provision Service contracts Company policy is that notice No specic provision for compensation amounts.
Policy includes periods do not exceed 12 months consideration of mitigation and phasing.
In addition to the above, the committee also has oversight of remuneration arrangements elsewhere in the group.
The following tables set out the additional incentive arrangements for other staff within the organisation.
Beazley 68 Annual report 2012 Governance Additional incentive arrangements at Beazley not applicable to executive directors Element Objective Summary profit related To align underwriters reward profit on the relevant underwriting account as measured at three years pay plan with the profitability of their and later.
account Support To align staff bonus with Participation is limited to staff members not on the executive or in receipt bonus plan individual performance and of profit related pay bonus.
achievement of objectives Retention shares To retain key staff Used in exceptional circumstances.
Full vesting dependent on continued employment over six years.
The policy is that existing executive directors do not participate in these plans.
However, some executive directors have subsisting legacy retention shares.
All-employee arrangements including executive directors Element Objective Summary SAYE To create staff alignment with HMRC-approved monthly savings scheme facilitating the purchase of shares the group and promote a sense at a discount.
of ownership US SAYE As above but for US employees Remuneration committee The committee consists of only non-executive directors and during the year the members included Padraic OConnor chairman, Gordon Hamilton, George Blunden, Dennis Holt and Ken Sroka.
Dennis Holt replaced Gordon Hamilton as a member on 9 May 2012.
The board views each of these directors as independent.
The committee met five times during the year.
The committee considers the individual remuneration packages of the chief executive, executive directors and executive committee members.
It also has oversight of the salary and bonus awards of individuals outside the executive committee who either directly report to executive committee members or who have basic salaries over 200,000, as well as the overall bonus pool and total incentives paid by the group.
The terms of reference of the committee are available on the companys website.
The committee receives advice from a variety of sources.
During the year the committee was advised by remuneration consultants from Deloitte LLP.
Other organisations providing specialist advice and services to the company and the committee are: Capita Employee Benets Consulting Limited previously known as Bluen Advisory Services Limited for benets and pensions advice, Towers Watson for salary data and Equiniti for employee share incentives matters and registrar services.
Deloitte LLP provided advice in relation to board processes.
The advisors provide no other services to the group.
Input was also received by the committee during the year from the chief executive, head of talent management, the company secretary and the chief risk officer.
However, no individual plays a part in the determination of their own remuneration.
Remuneration policy The committee has oversight of the remuneration policy.
The general philosophy underlying the reward strategy for executive directors is the same as that applied to all other employees.
Pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the company and data on comparable positions in other similar organisations are taken into consideration when determining executive directors remuneration.
The main aim of the policy is to ensure that management and staff are remunerated fairly and in such a manner as to facilitate the recruitment, retention and motivation of suitably qualied personnel.
We believe that: performance-related remuneration is an essential motivation to management and staff and should be structured to ensure that interests are aligned with shareholders: individual rewards should reect the group objectives but be dependent on the profitability of the group and should be appropriately balanced against risk considerations: the structures of packages should support meritocracy, an important part of Beazleys culture: reward potentials should be market-competitive: and executives pay should include an element of downside risk.
Beazley Annual report 2012 69 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration and the non-life insurance market The groups market for talent is primarily specialist underwriters at Lloyds and internationally.
In line with practice within the Lloyds market, there have, to date, been no upper limits on the amounts payable to executives under short-term incentives.
The committee has been monitoring developing practice in this area and has decided to introduce individual bonus limits going forward.
From 2013, an individual overall cap of 400% of salary will apply.
The overall bonus pool approach continues to closely align bonuses with group performance and a share deferral policy operates.
Fixed and variable remuneration The balance between xed and variable elements of executive directors remuneration changes with performance.
The anticipated normal mix between xed and variable remuneration is c. 40% xed and c. 60% variable.
A significant portion of variable pay is delivered in shares.
This mix is illustrated in the following charts.
Balance of fixed versus variable pay % Incentives: cash versus shares % 100 100 80 80 60 60 57 57 60 60 62.5 63.5 40 40 43 43 40 40 37.5 36.5 20 20 0 0 Chief Finance Underwriting Chief Finance Underwriting Executive Director Directors Executive Director Directors Fixed Variable Cash Shares Risk and reward at Beazley The committee regularly reviews developing remuneration governance in the context of Solvency II remuneration guidance, other corporate governance developments and institutional shareholders guidance.
The committee continues to review remuneration against various guidelines and to monitor developments.
The chief risk officer reports annually to the remuneration committee on risk and remuneration as part of the regular agenda.
The committee believes the group is adopting an approach which is consistent with and takes account of the risk prole of the group.
We believe reward at Beazley is appropriately balanced in light of risk considerations, particularly taking into account the following features: Features aligned with risk considerations Share deferral A portion of bonus is normally deferred into shares for three years.
These deferred shares, together with shares awarded under the LTIP, mean that a significant portion of total remuneration may be delivered in the form of shares deferred for a period of years.
Extended performance periods A portion of the LTIP has performance measured over an extended five-year period, in line with the Walker recommendations and FSA guidelines.
Shareholding requirements Executive directors are expected to build up and maintain a shareholding of 150% of salary 200% for the CEO.
LTIP awards may be forfeited if shareholding requirements are not met.
Investment in underwriting Management and underwriters may defer part of their bonuses into the Beazley staff underwriting plan providing alignment with capital providers.
Underwriters remuneration aligned Under the profit related bonus plan payments are aligned with the timing of profits with profit achieved achieved on the account.
For long-tail accounts this may be in excess of six years.
If the account deteriorates then payouts are clawed back through adjustments to future payments.
From 2012 onwards any new profit related pay plans may be at risk of forfeiture or reduction if, in the opinion of the committee, there has been a serious regulatory breach by the underwriter concerned, including the groups policy on treating customers fairly TCF.
Clawback of deferred and LTIP shares For deferred share awards from 2011 onwards, a clawback provision has been introduced, so that shares may be forfeited in certain circumstances, including material misstatement of accounts or significant adverse company performance developments.
This provision was included in the new LTIP and applies for awards from 2012.
Beazley 70 Annual report 2012 Governance Salary The committee reviews salaries annually taking into account levels in comparable positions in other similar financial service companies.
It also considers the performance of the group and the individual as well as the average salary increase for employees across the whole group.
Salary reviews take place in December of each year, with new salaries effective from 1 January.
For 2013, and following consultation with shareholders, Martin Bride and Adrian Cox received material salary increases which fully reected their director responsibilities.
Both increases reect a policy of lower starting salary positioning, with a move to market rate following sustained performance in the role: Martin Brides salary was increased from 270,000 to 300,000 11.1%, taking into account development and sustained performance in the role.
Following the increase, the salary is considered to be conservatively positioned against benchmarks.
Adrian Coxs salary was increased from 270,000 to 320,000 18.5% bringing it appropriately in line with Beazleys other divisional heads.
Adrian Cox heads speciality lines, Beazleys largest division, and following development in the role the committee considered his salary should be moved to be in line with other divisional heads at Beazley and with comparable roles outside Beazley.
This was less than the average salary increases across the group.
The annualised base salaries for 2012 and 2013 are as set out below: 2012 base salary 2013 base salary Increase % M L Bride 270,000 300,000 11.1 A P Cox 270,000 320,000 18.5 J G Gray 315,000 323,000 2.5 D A Horton 420,000 430,500 2.5 N P Maidment 315,000 323,000 2.5 C A Washbourn 315,000 323,000 2.5 Bonus plans Enterprise bonus plan The enterprise bonus plan is a discretionary plan in which all employees are eligible to participate.
The pool is based on a percentage of profit subject to a minimum group return on equity target.
The proportion of profit allocated to the pool increases as higher returns on equity ROE are achieved.
The proportion of the pool awarded to executive directors takes into account the individuals contribution and the performance of their division if appropriate.
The pool is based on the results for the financial year having been adjusted for the enterprise pool payment.
The approach to the calculation of bonuses is aligned to shareholders interests and ensures that bonuses are affordable, while the ROE targets increase the performance gearing.
The committee reviews the bonus pool framework each year to ensure it remains appropriate, taking into account the prevailing environment, interest rates and expected investment returns, headcount and any other relevant factors.
Beazley Annual report 2012 71 Governance Directors remuneration report continued The following table and graph illustrates the way in which bonuses reect profit and ROE performance.
Average executive director bonus as a Pre-tax Post-tax percentage profit ROE of salary 2012 $251m 19% c. 272% 2011 $63m 6% c. 64% 2010 $217m 19% c. 230% 2009 $231m 24% c. 230% 2008 $76m 8% c. 75% profit for years prior to 2010 has been converted from sterling based on the average prevailing exchange rate for that year.
Average executive director bonus payout % of salary 180 350% 300% 150 250% 120 200% 90 150% 60 100% 30 50% 0 0% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Profit Before Tax PBT Executive director bonus as a % of salary A portion of the bonus will generally be deferred into shares for three years.
The deferral will range from 0% to 35% dependent on the level of bonus.
Deferred share awards from 2011 onwards include a clawback provision.
The committee may determine that unvested shares will be forfeited in certain circumstances, such as a material misstatement of accounts or a significant adverse group development.
A portion of bonus may also be deferred under the Beazley Staff Underwriting Plan, and this capital can be lost if underwriting performance is poor.
Underwriter bonus plan profit related pay plan Underwriters participate in a profit related pay plan based upon the profitability of their underwriting account.
Executive directors do not participate in this plan.
The objective of the plan is to align the interests of the group and the individual through aligning an underwriters reward to the long-term profitability of their portfolio.
Underwriters who have significant inuence over a portfolio may be offered awards under the plan.
There is no automatic eligibility.
profit related pay is awarded irrespective of the results of the group and is capped at a maximum of 150% of salary.
This bonus is awarded as cash and is based upon a xed proportion of profit achieved on the relevant underwriting account as measured at three years and later.
Any movements in prior years are reected in future year payments as the accounts develop after three years.
For long-tail accounts the class is still relatively immature at the three-year stage and therefore payments will be modest.
Underwriters may receive further payouts in years four, five and six and even later as the account matures.
Therefore each year they could be receiving payouts in relation to multiple underwriting years.
If the account deteriorates as it develops any payouts are clawed back through reductions in future profit related pay bonuses.
Beazley 72 Annual report 2012 Governance The xed proportion is calculated based upon profit targets which are set through the business planning process and reviewed by a committee formed of executive committee members and functional specialists including the group actuary.
Underwriting risk is taken into account when setting profit targets.
In addition to profit related pay, underwriters are also eligible to receive a discretionary bonus, based upon performance, from the enterprise bonus pool.
A proportion of this bonus may be paid in deferred shares, which vest after three years subject to continued employment.
Support bonus plan Employees who are not members of the executive and who do not participate in the underwriters profit related pay plan participate in a discretionary bonus pool.
This pool provides the employees with a discretionary award of an annual performance bonus that reects overall individual performance including meeting annual objectives.
A proportion of this award may also be dependent on the groups return on equity and therefore allocated from the enterprise bonus pool.
Share plans Long-term incentive plan LTIP The LTIP was renewed in 2012.
Under the LTIP, executive directors, senior management and underwriters receive awards of shares subject to the achievement of stretching performance conditions measured over three and five years.
The key features of the plan are as follows: 50% of the award is measured after three years and 50% after five years: awards are in the form of nil-cost options with a ten-year term: and participants are expected to build a shareholding in Beazley equal to their annual award level.
For example the CEO has a shareholding requirement of 200% of salary.
In good leaver circumstances and on change of control, awards take into account time and performance.
The award level policy for 2013 is set out in the table below: Other Chief executive executive directors Maximum annual award as a percentage of base salary 200% 150% Vesting of awards is based on growth in net asset value per share NAVps, one of Beazleys key performance indicators.
The committee considers the LTIP NAVps growth targets to be very stretching, particularly taking into account that growth must be over a sustained three and five year period.
The performance condition for awards is as follows: % of NAVps performance award vesting NAVps growth risk-free rate 7.5% p. a.
0% NAVps growth risk-free rate 7.5% p. a.
10% NAVps growth risk-free rate 10% p. a.
25% NAVps growth risk-free rate 15% p. a.
100% Straight-line vesting between points Growth in NAVps is calculated taking into account any payment of dividends by the company.
In line with our reporting to shareholders, NAVps is denominated in US dollars.
The targets are equivalent to those that applied in 2012.
Beazley Annual report 2012 73 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Participants are entitled to dividend equivalents on vested shares.
There is no entiltement to dividends on nil-cost options following vesting.
The LTIP includes a clawback provision.
The committee may determine that unvested shares will be forfeited in certain circumstances, such as a material misstatement of accounts or a significant adverse company development.
The LTIP awards that were granted on 16 February 2009 and 27 April 2009 were based on NAVps growth and TSR performance.
The awards made in February 2009 met the performance criteria in part and 97% of the awards vested in February 2012.
The award made to Martin Bride on 27 April 2009 met the criteria in full and 100% of the award vested in April 2012.
The results were independently calculated by Deloitte LLP.
For the LTIP awards that were granted on 18 February 2010 the expected vesting is 85%.
Figures are taken from 31 December of each year TSR growth 1 month average Source: Datastream NAV growth including dividends Marine share incentive plan During the year, the committee identied a substantial remuneration-related commercial risk to the business.
The marine division has been making a sustained outstanding contribution to the Group result over several years.
The current remuneration arrangements do not make provision for rewarding such sustained exceptional divisional performance and their importance to Beazleys results.
Because the final tranche of an historical long term incentive, specic to the head of marine, vested in 2012, the head of marines incentive reward opportunity was to reduce for 2013 onwards.
Against that background the committee is proposing a share award for the head of marine made in two tranches: 500,000 shares to vest after 3 years 500,000 shares to vest after 5 years The award will be subject to pre-tax divisional return on equity ROE performance and continued employment, measured over three years 50% and five years 50% : 20% vesting for 15% divisional ROE performance 100% vesting for 25% divisional ROE performance The other provisions of the plan are in line with the LTIP, including that the award will be subject to a clawback provision.
It was considered that a portion of the award should be subject to a longer than normal performance period, the performance conditions should be based on sustained marine performance and that the award should be made in a single grant.
The committee undertook extensive consultation on the proposal with a wide range of Beazleys largest shareholders and this dialogue shaped the final proposals.
We are seeking shareholder approval for the award at our forthcoming AGM.
The committee considers that the proposed approach is aligned with Beazleys principle of performance-based pay and that it is in the best interests of our shareholders.
SAYE The company operates an HMRC-approved SAYE plan for the benefit of UK-based employees.
A new plan was approved at the 2012 AGM.
The plan offers a three-year savings contract period with options being offered at a 20% discount to the share price on grant.
Monthly contributions are made through payroll deduction on behalf of participating employees.
Beazley 74 Annual report 2012 Governance US SAYE The Beazley plc savings-related share option plan for US employees permits all eligible US-based employees to purchase shares of Beazley plc at a discount of up to 15% to the shares fair market value.
Participants may exercise options after a two-year period, although the shares are non-transferable for a further 12 months following exercise.
The plan is compliant with the terms of Section 423 of the US Internal Revenue Code and is similar to the SAYE plan operated for UK-based Beazley employees.
Retention shares The retention plan is now only used in exceptional circumstances for recruitment or retention purposes.
Any awards vest at 25% per annum over years three to six.
Policy going forward is that existing executive directors do not participate in this plan.
However, some executive directors have subsisting legacy awards.
Option plan The option plan does not form part of Beazleys current remuneration policy.
The plan comprised of HMRC-approved and also unapproved arrangements.
All options granted under this plan have vested or lapsed.
No options have been granted since 2005.
This plan expired on 12 November 2012.
Dilution The share plans permit 10% of the companys issued share capital to be issued pursuant to awards under the LTIP, SAYE and option plan in a ten-year period.
Following the adoption of the 2012 LTIP, the company adheres to a dilution limit of 5% in a ten-year period for executive plans.
Investment in underwriting Traditionally, Lloyds underwriters contributed their personal capital to syndicates in which they worked.
With the move to corporate provision of capital, individual membership of Lloyds has declined signicantly.
The committee feels that having personal capital at risk in the syndicate is an important part of the remuneration policy and provides a healthy counterbalance to incentivisation through bonuses and long-term incentive awards.
The company has operated the Beazley staff underwriting plan for this purpose since 2004 and executive directors and other selected staff are invited to participate through bonus deferral with an element of their cash incentives at risk as capital commitments.
These capital commitments can be lost in full if underwriting performance is poor.
The group funds the initial capital for the participants in the plan.
The personal capital committed is then funded by individual bonus deferral.
The aim is for individuals to fund their capital within three years.
To date over 150 employees of the group have committed to put at risk 7.2m of bonuses to the underwriting results of syndicate 623.
Of the total at risk, 6.5m has already been deferred from the bonuses awarded.
The following directors participated in syndicate 623 through Beazley Staff Underwriting Limited: 2011 2012 2013 Total year of year of year of bonuses account account account deferred underwriting underwriting underwriting and at risk capacity capacity capacity M L Bride 216,000 350,000 400,000 400,000 A P Cox 216,000 350,000 400,000 400,000 J G Gray 216,000 350,000 400,000 400,000 D A Horton 216,000 350,000 400,000 400,000 N P Maidment 216,000 350,000 400,000 400,000 C A Washbourn 216,000 350,000 400,000 400,000 Beazley Annual report 2012 75 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Pensions The pension benets for directors and staff are provided by way of a dened contribution scheme arranged through Fidelity, which is non-contributory.
The company contributes 15% of salary for directors.
Following changes to pension tax legislation that came into force from April 2011, an equivalent cash alternative may be offered if an individual exceeds the lifetime allowance.
No cash alternative will be offered on pension payments above the new annual limit and individuals are responsible for any tax implications arising.
Prior to 31 March 2006 the company provided pension entitlements to directors that are dened benefit in nature, based on its legacy policy under the Beazley Furlonge Limited Final Salary Pension Scheme.
Future service accruals ceased on 31 March 2006.
Only base salary is pensionable, subject to an earnings cap.
The normal retirement age for pension calculation purposes is 60 years.
A spouses pension is the equivalent of two-thirds of the members pension before any commutation payable on the members death after retirement.
No other pension provisions are made.
Details of the dened benefit entitlements of those who served as directors during the year are as follows: Increase Increase Transfer Transfer Increase in Accrued in accrued in accrued value of A value transfer benefit at benets benets less of accrued value less 31 Dec excluding including directors benets at directors 2012 ination A ination contributions 31 Dec 2012 contributions A P Cox 11,407 323 186,513 23,908 J G Gray 32,057 906 808,578 69,503 N P Maidment 38,940 1,100 751,958 87,906 C A Washbourn 17,307 489 349,037 40,137 Benets Benets include private medical insurance for the directors and their immediate family, permanent health insurance, death in service benefit at four times annual salary, travel insurance, health-club membership, season ticket, car parking and the provision of either a company car or a monthly car allowance.
Service contracts Executive directors have service contracts with Beazley Management Limited.
In June 2009, following the redomiciliation to Ireland, the directors were issued with new service contracts from Beazley Management Limited and appointment letters as directors of Beazley plc.
It is company policy that such service contracts with executive directors contain notice periods, from the company or employee, of not more than 12 months.
The current contracts in place for executive directors are as follows: Date of contract M L Bride 9 June 2009 A P Cox 6 Dec 2010 J G Gray 9 June 2009 D A Horton 9 June 2009 N P Maidment 9 June 2009 C A Washbourn 9 June 2009 The notice period for each of the above contracts is 12 months.
There is no unexpired term as each of the executive directors contracts is on a rolling basis.
Subject to the notice requirements described above, there is no provision in the service agreements for compensation to be payable on early termination of the contract.
Any payments of compensation will be subject to negotiation and the group policy includes consideration of appropriate mitigation, including phasing of payments.
Beazley 76 Annual report 2012 Governance Non-executive directors fees The fees of non-executive directors are determined by the board.
When setting fee levels consideration is given to levels in comparable companies for comparable services in addition to the time commitment and responsibilities of the individual director.
No non-executive director is involved in the determination of their fees.
No non-executive director participates in the groups incentive arrangements or pension plan.
Non-executive directors are appointed for xed terms, normally for three years, and may be reappointed for future terms.
Non-executive directors are typically appointed through a selection process that assesses whether the candidate brings the desired competence and skills to the group.
The board has identied several key competencies for non-executive directors to complement the existing skill-set of the executive directors.
These competencies are as follows: insurance sector expertise: asset management skills: public company and corporate governance experience: risk management skills: and finance skills.
Beazley operates across Lloyds and the US markets through a variety of legal entities and structures.
Non-executive directors, in addition to the plc board, typically sit on either one of our key subsidiary boards, ie Beazley Furlonge Limited BFL, our managing agency at Lloyds, or Beazley Re Limited, our reinsurance company.
As a result of developments in regulation, the degree of autonomy in the operation of each board has increased in recent years, with a consequent increase in time commitment and scope of the role.
Dennis Holt took up the position of non-executive chairman following the annual general meeting in March 2012, succeeding Jonathan Agnew.
The board reviews fees annually.
Details of the non-executive directors terms of appointment are set out below: Commencement date of initial appointment Expires G P Blunden 1 Jan 2010 AGM 2016 A G K Hamilton 8 Sep 2006 AGM 2013 D Holt 21 Jul 2011 AGM 2015 P J OConnor 20 Mar 2009 AGM 2015 V J Sheridan 9 Jun 2009 AGM 2016 K P Sroka 12 Nov 2010 AGM 2014 R A W Tolle 6 Dec 2010 AGM 2014 With effect from 2012 the standard approach for non-executive director appointment is that the appointment expires at the AGM following the end of the 3 year term, notwithstanding the fact each director is subject to annual re-election at each AGM.
Beazley Annual report 2012 77 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Compensation for past directors Nick Furlonge retired on 30 June 2011.
Following his retirement he continues in his role as a non-executive director of Beazleys subsidiary Beazley Furlonge Limited.
Nick Furlonges fees in respect of his role as non-executive director of BFL in 2012 were 42,250.
Dan Jones is a former non-executive director of Beazley plc who stood down from the Board on 2 June 2010.
He was subsequently appointed in an executive capacity to serve on the executive committee.
During the past financial year his compensation in respect of this executive role was $1,254,310 comprising his annual salary, bonus, benets and pension US 401K scheme.
He was made an LTIP award over 272,819 shares subject to performance conditions.
Other than for the chairman, fees include fees paid for chairmanship of the audit and risk, and remuneration committees, and for the role of senior independent director, as well as fees, where relevant, for members of subsidiary board of BFL, Beazley Re Limited and chairmanship of BFL risk committee.
The directors defer bonus entitlements to support their underwriting through Beazley Staff Underwriting Limited.
The return from the staff underwriting plan.
Executive directors and selected staff may voluntarily defer part of their bonuses into the plan and these capital commitments can be lost if underwriting performance is poor.
The notional dividend is a cash bonus equal to dividends the directors would have received during the vesting period of the deferred and retention shares.
For Mr OConnor and Mr Sheridan, their non-executive director fee was based on 83,500 and 71,250 respectively and has been converted into sterling for this table at the average exchange rate of 1.23.
Awards were made on 16 February 2009 and 27 April 2009 at a mid-market share price of 102p and 101p respectively.
50% of the award is based on NAVps performance in excess of the risk-free rate RFR and 50% is based on TSR performance versus a comparator group Amlin, Brit, Catlin, Chaucer, Hardy, Hiscox, Lancashire and Novae.
Different vesting schedules apply for shares worth up to 50% of salary basic shares and shares worth more than 50% of salary additional shares.
For basic shares, for the NAV portion, NAVps RFR 5% p. a. results in 0% vesting and NAVps RFR 5% p. a. results in 100% vesting.
For the TSR portion, below median TSR results in 0% vesting, median TSR performance results in 50% vesting and upper quartile TSR performance results in 100% vesting.
For additional shares, for the NAV portion, NAVps RFR 5% p. a. results in 0% vesting and NAVps RFR 10% p. a. results in 100% vesting.
For the TSR portion, below upper quartile TSR performance results in 0% vesting and upper decile TSR results in 100% vesting.
Straight-line pro-rating applies between all points.
97% of the awards made in February and 100% of the awards made in April 2009 vested.
Awards were made on 18 February 2010 at a mid-market share price of 107.2p 110.13p D A Horton only.
Performance conditions all of the award is subMect to NAVps performance, with 50% measured over a three year period and 50% measured over a five year period.
NAVps RFR 10% p. a. equates to 0% vesting, NAVps RFR 10% p. a. equates to 25% vesting, NAVps or RFR 15% p. a. equates to 100% vesting, with straight-line pro-rated vesting between these points.
Awards were made on 14 February 2011 at a mid-market share price of 132.7p.
Performance conditions: all of the award is subject to NAVps performance, with 50% measured over a three year period and 50% measured over a five year period.
Awards were made on 30 March 2012 at a mid-market share price of 143.43p.
NAVps RFR 7.5% p. a. equates to 0% vesting, NAVps RFR 7.5% p. a. equates to 10% vesting, NAVps RFR 10% p. a. equates to 25% vesting, NAVps or RFR 15% p. a. equates to 100% vesting, with straight-line pro-rated vesting between these points.
5 Conditional awards were made on 27 April 2009 at the time of M L Brides recruitment.
The 150,000 shares will vest in four equal tranches on each of the third, fourth, fifth and sixth anniversaries of the date of grant and the 200,000 shares will normally vest in full on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
The market price of Beazley ordinary shares at 31 December 2012 was 176.9p and the range during the year was 131.0p to 180.4p.
Annual general meeting A resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting to be held on 27 March 2013 to approve this directors remuneration report.
I am keen to encourage an ongoing dialogue with shareholders.
Accordingly, please feel free to contact me if you would like to discuss any matter arising from this report or remuneration issues generally, either by writing to me at the companys head ofce or by email through Sian Coope at sian.
Padraic OConnor Chairman of the remuneration committee 6 February 2013 Beazley 82 Annual report 2012
