Governance Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2012 47 Directors remuneration report This report has been prepared in accordance with Part 15 of The Remuneration Committee also consulted with the Chairman the Companies Act 2006 and related regulations.
The tables and the Chief Executive in relation to the remuneration of the included in the statements below on directors remuneration executive directors and internal support was provided to the and emoluments, deferred share awards, pensions, share options Remuneration Committee by the Company Secretary.
and performance share scheme awards, have been audited.
Remuneration policy for executive directors The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee has adopted a remuneration The Remuneration Committee is a standing committee of policy with the following objectives: the board whose current members are Mr Davies Chairman, O performance related remuneration should seek to align Mr Allen-Jones, Mr Gregson, Mr Thompson and Mr Woods.
the interests of the executive directors with those of All of the members served throughout the year, other than the shareholders Mr Woods who joined the Remuneration Committee on his O appointment as a director of Caledonia on 1 November 2011. a signiicant portion of the executive directors remuneration packages should be linked to the performance of the company The Remuneration Committee, whose written terms of reference O are published on the companys website, has been established remuneration packages for the executive directors should be for the following purposes: competitive, but not excessive, in terms of market practice, in order to attract, retain and motivate executive directors of the O to determine and agree with the board the framework and quality needed to manage and grow the company successfully.
broad policy for the remuneration of the executive directors and such other members of the executive management as it is In order to align further the interests of the executive directors requested by the board to consider and to review the on-going with those of shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy adopted guidelines for minimum shareholdings which executive directors will be expected to attain over a reasonable period of O to approve the design of, and determine targets for, any time.
For these purposes, shareholdings include the value to performance related pay schemes operated by the company executive directors, net of associated income tax and national and to approve the total annual payments made under insurance, of options granted under the companys executive such schemes share option schemes and awards granted under its performance O to review the design of all share incentive plans for approval share scheme for which the performance targets have been met by the board and shareholders and, for any such plans, to and also bonuses deferred into shares, both compulsorily and determine each year whether awards will be made and, if so, voluntarily, under the companys deferred bonus plans.
For the the overall amount of such awards, the individual awards to Chief Executive, the minimum guideline shareholding has been executive directors and other senior executives and the set at a value of 200% of basic salary and for all other executive performance targets to be used directors 150% of basic salary.
The current shareholdings of all of the executive directors meet these guidelines, other than of O within the terms of the agreed policy, to determine the total Mr King, who joined the company in December 2009. individual remuneration packages of each executive director and, if requested by the board, other senior executives, In determining executive directors remuneration, consideration including, where appropriate, bonuses, incentive payments, is given to matters speciic to the company, such as the share options and other awards performance of its net asset value NAV per share on a total return basis, both in absolute terms and as measured against O to determine the policy for, and scope of, pension external benchmarks, to the experience and performance of arrangements, service agreements, termination payments individual directors and to their areas of responsibility.
The and compensation commitments for executive directors Remuneration Committee also gives consideration to a report and, if requested by the board, other senior executives prepared by the Company Secretary on pay and employment O to review and assess annually the remuneration trends conditions through the Caledonia group, although, given that across the group.
Caledonias trading subsidiaries operate in a number of diverse industries and geographical locations using both skilled and The Remuneration Committee also determines the fees of unskilled workforces, the executive directors pay is principally the Chairman.
set by the Remuneration Committee in the context of that of During the year, the Remuneration Committee received advice Caledonias head ofice staff.
Comparable external market data is also taken into account as a point of reference to determine from Towers Watson, independent remuneration consultants appropriate remuneration packages for speciic roles.
appointed by the Remuneration Committee, who advised the Remuneration Committee in regard to a consultation with the It is currently intended that the policy statement set out in this companys larger institutional shareholders and investor report will apply for the year to 31 March 2013 and for representative bodies on proposed changes to Caledonias long subsequent years.
However, the Remuneration Committee term incentive arrangements prior to seeking shareholders considers that an effective remuneration policy needs to be approval of them at the 2011 annual general meeting.
Towers suficiently lexible and kept under review in order to take Watson also assessed the comparability of senior executive account of future changes in the companys business environment remuneration packages with the market place for the purpose and in remuneration practice.
Accordingly, the policy may be of setting executive directors salaries for the year commencing amended in future years.
Any changes in policy for inancial 1 April 2012.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee received years after 31 March 2013 will be described in future directors advice from Freshields Bruckhaus Deringer in relation to the remuneration reports, which will continue to be subject to an drafting of the rules of the new 2011 performance share advisory vote of shareholders.
All statements in this report in scheme and the updated 2011 deferred bonus plan approved relation to remuneration policy for years after 31 March 2013 by shareholders at the 2011 annual general meeting.
Towers should be read in this light.
Watson principally advised in relation to the remuneration of executive directors and senior management and Freshields Bruckhaus Deringer are the companys main legal advisers.
48 Annual report 2012 Caledonia Investments plc Directors remuneration report continued Policy on individual components of executive directors In addition, the deferred bonus plans entitle directors to convert remuneration voluntarily a proportion of any remaining cash bonus to an Basic salary entitlement to shares.
The Remuneration Committees current Basic salary is determined by the Remuneration Committee by policy is that up to half of any bonus not subject to compulsory reference to the experience and responsibilities of the director deferral may be voluntarily converted into shares.
The shares concerned and taking into account external market research.
awarded for voluntary bonus deferral are also eligible for The companys policy is to pay salaries and other beneits whi h c matching, on a one for one basis, the vesting of which is subject to are competitive, but not excessive, in relation to the marketplace.
the satisfaction of performance conditions over a period of three years.
Further details of the companys deferred bonus plans and Beneits awards made to executive directors thereunder are set out on The company provides a range of beneits, including cash pages 50 to 51. allowances in lieu of company cars, life insurance, permanent health insurance and private medical cover.
Pensions The companys policy on pensions is to provide a means whereby Bonus executive directors either receive a pension at retirement age The company operates a discretionary annual bonus scheme from the company, or are funded to operate their own personal for executive directors, which takes into account both the pension plans or other arrangements.
The Hon C W Cayzer is a performance of individual directors and the performance of the member of the Caledonia Pension Scheme, which is a deined company.
At the determination of the Remuneration Committee, beneits scheme and is contributory for employees who joined and subject to the compulsory deferral provisions of the the company after 1 April 1988, but which is now closed to new companys deferred bonus plans, bonuses may either be paid in members.
This scheme provides a pension of up to two-thirds of cash or as employer contributions to registered pension schemes.
inal pensionable salary on retirement dependent on length of The maximum potential bonus that may currently be awarded is service and age and also provides for dependants pensions.
For the Chief Executive and the Finance Hon C W Cayzer transferred into the scheme from The UnionDirector, a maximum of 50% of basic salary is determined by Castle Line Superannuation Scheme which was non-contributory, reference to the companys performance and 50% by reference and this status has been preserved.
For executive directors with The other executive directors are entitled to receive a ixed responsibility for speciic pools of capital, a signiicant percentage of basic salary as employer contributions into the proportion of bonus is linked to the performance and objectives Caledonia Group Personal Pension Plan GPPP or other of their individual pools.
For these directors, the maximum personal pension arrangements or may, at their choice, receive potential bonus of 100% of basic salary is determined as to a cash supplement in lieu of pension contributions, which is 25% by reference to the companys performance, 60% to pool reduced by such amount as is necessary to ensure that the cash performance and objectives and 15% to individual performance.
payment is cost neutral for the company after taking into account In all cases, the company performance related element of bonus the companys national insurance contributions.
The percentage is determined by reference to the performance of the companys of basic salary for the year ended 31 March 2012 was 22.5% for diluted NAV per share on a total return basis compared with that Mr Wyatt and 17.5% for Mr Cayzer-Colvin and Mr King.
For the of the FTSE All-Share Total Return index over the inancial yer.
a portion of the inancial year until his resignation as a direc or t Bonus payments commence if the performance of the companys on 30 September 2011, Mr May was also entitled to receive an NAV per share matches that of the FTSE All-Share index, employer pension contribution or cash alternative of 17.5% of increasing incrementally to the maximum entitlement payable his basic salary.
if NAV per share outperforms the FTSE All-Share index by 6% or more.
Pool performance is measured by reference to It is the companys policy that any future executive directors pool speciic benchmark indices and objectives and individual recruited from outside the company will be funded to operate performance by reference to personal objectives set at the start their own pension arrangements or offered participation of the inancial year.
in the GPPP and that the company will not offer participation in any deined beneit arrangements.
All bonus payments are subject to the overriding discretion of the Remuneration Committee and circumstances where such Share option and performance share schemes discretion may be used to reduce the amount of bonus payable A key objective of the companys remuneration policy is to include where NAV per share growth in the inancial year is motivate executive directors to deliver long term shareholder negative and or NAV per share outperformance over the value.
The Remuneration Committee believes that this is relevant inancial year merely represents recovery from best achieved through the grant of share based awards, previous underperformance.
In exceptional circumstances, receivable only if demanding performance conditions are the Remuneration Committee may also award bonuses outside met.
Such awards are considered to be a key element of the the terms of the companys annual bonus scheme.
No bonus remuneration package, alongside annual salary, annual bonus payments are pensionable.
and the deferred bonus plans.
Deferral of bonus As a consequence of its review of Caledonias executive The companys bonus arrangements are designed to align the remuneration structures conducted in 2011, the Remuneration interests of directors with those of shareholders and to encourage Committee sought and received shareholder approval to retention by requiring, in the Remuneration Committees establish a new executive performance share scheme to absolute discretion, that a proportion of any bonus paid to a replace the existing executive share option scheme which director is compulsorily invested in shares under the companys was established in 2005. deferred bonus plans.
The Remuneration Committees current Under the 2011 performance share scheme, participants are policy is that any annual bonus paid, the amount of which is above awarded nil-cost options over shares, rather than options based 50% of a directors basic salary for the inancial year to whi h t c he on the current market value of those shares.
The maximum value bonus relates, must be so compulsorily invested.
Shares derived of nil-cost options that may be granted in any year is 200% of from the compulsory deferral of bonus are matched on a one for basic salary, although the Remuneration Committees general one basis, the vesting of which is subject to the satisfaction of policy is to grant awards of no more than 125% of basic salary.
performance conditions over a period of three years.
Governance Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2012 49 Further details of the companys executive share option schemes TSR growth over ive years and the 2011 performance share scheme and awards made to Caledonia TSR executive directors thereunder are set out on pages 51 to 53.
FTSE All-Share TR Policy on executive directors service contracts 125 It is the policy of the company that no executive director should be offered a service contract that cannot be terminated on more than one years notice or which contains provision for 100 predetermined compensation in excess of one years total emoluments.
All existing directors service contracts comply with this policy.
The Remuneration Committee has regard to 75 compensation commitments and believes that these are best addressed by restricting the term of the contract.
In the event of a 50 termination, the Remuneration Committee would consider all the 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 relevant factors and circumstances and seek a just solution.
It is the Remuneration Committees intention that all future executive Statement on directors remuneration audited directors service contracts should include provisions enabling The remuneration of the directors was as follows: the company to reduce compensation payments in the event that the director takes up alternative employment within the notice 2012 2011 period to which such payments relate.
000 000 Policy on external non-executive directorships held by Emoluments 2,439 3,293 executive directors Statement on directors emoluments audited It is the companys policy to allow executive directors to hold The emoluments of individual directors were as follows: external non-executive directorships unrelated to the companys business, provided that the time commitment required is not Compmaterial.
Normally the company will retain any fees arising from ensation such non-executive directorships, but may permit the executive Fees and Cash for loss Total Total salaries Beneits bonus of ofice 2012 2011 director to retain fees in certain circumstances.
Details of any Name 000 000 000 000 000 000 such fees retained by executive directors are disclosed in the J R H Loudon 168 168 162 statement on directors emoluments below.
W P Wyatt 466 19 485 721 Policy on the Chairmans and non-executive directors terms The Hon C W Cayzer 279 19 298 450 of appointment and remuneration It is the companys policy that the Chairman and the nonJ M B Cayzer-Colvin 279 19 298 464 executive directors should be appointed for ixed periods of no S A King 331 3 100 434 536 more than three years from the next annual general meeting C M Allen-Jones 45 45 46 following initial appointment in the case of new appointments and that re-appointment at the end of such periods should M E T Davies 41 41 39 not be automatic.
R Goblet dAlviella 38 38 37 The Chairman receives an annual fee determined by the C H Gregson 40 40 38 1 Remuneration Committee but does not receive any other R D Kent 18 18 emoluments.
Non-executive directors are paid an annual fee D G F Thompson 42 42 38 determined by the board within the overall limit contained in 2 R B Woods 16 16 the articles of association, but do not receive any other bene its 3 from the company.
The basic fee for the non-executive Former director 174 directors was 36,250 and additionally fees of 5,100 and 1,883 76 100 380 2,439 3,293 4,450 respectively were paid to the Chairmen of the Audit and 1.
Mr Kent was appointed as a director on 1 October 2011.
Remuneration Committees and 2,100 and 1,450 respectively 2.
Mr Woods was appointed as a director on 1 November 2011. to the other members of those committees.
Mr May resigned as a director on 30 September 2011. was paid to Mr Allen-Jones for his roles as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Governance In addition to the amounts shown in the table above, Messrs Committee.
These fees have not been changed for the inancial Wyatt, Cayzer-Colvin and King respectively were paid amounts of year ending 31 March 2013.
65,209, 17,906 and 50,821 before tax 2011 17,655, nil and 35,383 respectively in lieu of contributions to their money Non-executive directors may also be paid additional fees agreed purchase pension arrangements as described in the statement on by the board where they have performed services that, in the directors pensions below.
opinion of the board, are over and above their normal duties.
The company is entitled to terminate the Chairmans or a non-executive directors appointment at any time without compensation.
Performance graph The graph below shows the companys total shareholder return TSR against that of the FTSE All-Share Total Return index for the ive inancial years ending on 31 March 2012.
TSR has been calculated assuming that all dividends are reinvested on their ex-dividend date.
The FTSE All-Share Total Return index has been chosen as it is the benchmark by which the company measures its delivery of shareholder value over the longer term.
50 Annual report 2012 Caledonia Investments plc Directors remuneration report continued O During the year, Mr King held external non-executive 50% of the matching shares only vest if NAV per share over the directorships of The Weir Group of which he ceased to be a Prescribed Period outperforms the Retail Prices Index by at director on 9 May 2012 and TT Electronics and Mr Cayzer-Colvin least 9% of The Henderson Smaller Companies Investment Trust, which O 50% of the matching shares only vest if NAV per share over the were unrelated to the companys business and where it had been Prescribed Period outperforms the FTSE All-Share index by at agreed that they could retain the fees arising therefrom.
received fees from The Weir Group of 60,000 2011 52,500 and from TT Electronics of 16,707 2011 nil.
Mr CayzerThe vesting of matching shares under the 2011 deferred bonus Colvin received fees from The Henderson Smaller Companies plan is also dependent on the companys performance over the Investment Trust of 10,485 2011 nil.
Prescribed Period by reference to two separate performance conditions, both of which relate to the performance of Caledonias Mr May was employed by Caledonia Group Services Ltd, a whollydiluted NAV per share on a total return basis.
For two-thirds of owned subsidiary of the company, under a service contract dated the matching shares awarded, the performance of diluted NAV 1 September 2003.
For the part of the year until his resignation per share on a total return basis is compared against the FTSE on 30 September 2011, Mr May was paid an amount in lieu of All-Share Total Return index over the Prescribed Period and, for pension contributions of 18,394 2011 39,411.
Following his the other one-third, the comparison is against the FTSE Actuaries resignation as a director, Mr May received as compensation a UK Index-linked Gilts all stocks Total Return index.
In each case, payment in lieu of notice of 380,432, of which 87,376 was paid vesting of matching shares is on a graduated basis, commencing shortly after the termination of his employment and the balance with 10% vesting on the achievement of 0.5% outperformance of of 293,056 in April 2012.
Mr May also received reimbursement the relevant index, rising on a straight line basis to 100% vesting of legal fees of 5,000.
The treatment of Mr Mays share plan on 3.5% outperformance of the relevant index.
For the purposes entitlements on termination is set out below.
of calculating the performance measures, an average of the Directors deferred share awards igures for the Companys NAV per share and the two benchmark No deferred share awards were granted to executive directors indices published over the three months prior to the start and for the year ended 31 March 2012.
Where awards are made, end of the performance period is used to reduce volatility.
the 2011 deferred bonus plan provides that the number of shares There will be no re-testing of the performance conditions under awarded for both the compulsory and voluntary deferral of either the 2005 or the 2011 deferred bonus plans.
bonus is determined by reference to the market value of a share at the time the award is made, which occurs shortly after the The reasons why the Remuneration Committee has chosen announcement of the companys results for the inancial year the above performance conditions for the 2011 deferred to which the bonus relates or following the occurrence of bonus plan are set out below in the statement on directors exceptional circumstances justifying the making of awards.
For both the 2005 and 2011 In both cases, the number of shares is set on a pre-tax basis, as the plans, the Remuneration Committee may amend the performance shares will be subject to income tax and national insurance on targets if events occur that would make the amended target release.
Matching shares are awarded in respect of compulsory a fairer measure of performance and provided that any and voluntary deferral of bonus on a one for one basis.
amended target is no more dificult to satisfy.
In addition, te h Remuneration Committee will also have the ability to impose At the 2011 annual general meeting of the company, shareholders different performance targets in the future, provided that any approved the adoption of the 2011 deferred bonus plan, which targets that are imposed are no less demanding than those has replaced the original deferred bonus plan adopted in 2005 described above.
Any such amended or different performance for bonus awards for the 2012 inancial year onwards.
The term s targets will be described in the directors remuneration report of each plan are similar, other than in respect of the performance for the relevant year.
targets for matching awards, and are summarised below.
Deferred share awards held as at 31 March 2012 or date of Compulsorily deferred share awards resignation if earlier by directors who served during the year The shares comprised in a compulsory deferral will normally are shown in the following table.
In relation to Mr Mays deferred only vest, together with an amount equal to the dividends that share awards, the Remuneration Committee determined in would have accrued on those shares, if the director remains relation to the termination of his employment on 30 September an employee of the Caledonia group for a three year period 2011 that, based on the measurement of the performance targets commencing on the irst day of the inancial year in which the since the grant date to his termination date, 50% of the matching award is made.
The vesting of these shares is not subject to a shares granted to him on 21 May 2010 should lapse and 50% further performance condition.
should vest, but that the vested shares should be further reduced Voluntarily deferred share awards to relect the time that had elapsed since the date of grant.
The shares comprised in a voluntary deferral are not subject to a The Remuneration Committee determined that the matching performance condition and will vest, together with an amount awards granted to him on 26 May 2011 should lapse in their equal to the dividends that would have accrued on those shares, entirety.
The Remuneration Committee also determined that at the earlier of three years from the irst day of the inaal nc y iear Mr Mays voluntary and compulsory awards granted in 2010 and in which the award is made or the date the director ceases to be 2011 should vest immediately and therefore he has a right to call an employee of the Caledonia group for any reason.
for these, together with the vested 2010 matching shares, in the twelve months following his termination date.
Matching share awards The vesting of the matching shares under the 2005 deferred There have been no changes in directors deferred share awards bonus plan is dependent on the companys performance over a up to the date of this report.
three year period, by reference to two separate performance conditions.
Both performance conditions relate to the performance of Caledonias NAV per share over the three inancial years starting with the year in which the award is made Prescribed Period.
Mr May resigned as a director on 30 September 2011.
Statement on directors pensions audited Mr Wyatt has established his own money purchase pension Pension beneits accrued by The Hon C W Cayzer during the year arrangements into which the company made employer under the companys deined beneit scheme were as follows: contributions of 30,196 2011 55,275 and in addition to which he elected to receive cash in lieu of pension contributions Row ref of 65,209 2011 17,655.
Mr King elected to receive his entire Accrued pension at 31 March 2012 a 159,686 pension entitlement by way of cash payments in lieu of pension contributions of 50,821 2011 35,383.
Mr Cayzer-Colvin is a Increase in accrued pension during the year b 10,543 member of the GPPP, a deined contribution scheme into which Increase in accrued pension during the year, employer contributions of 28,527 2011 33,750 were paid net of inlation c 5,323 during the year on his behalf, in addition to which he elected to Transfer value of increase in accrued receive cash payments in lieu of pension of 17,906 2011 nil.
pension over the year, net of inlation d 70,929 For the part of the year until his resignation on 30 September Transfer value of accrued pension at 2011, the company paid to Mr May cash in lieu of pension 31 March 2012 e 2,622,399 contributions of 18,394 2011 39,411.
Transfer value of accrued pension at Statement on directors share options audited 31 March 2011 f 2,077,903 The company currently has two executive share option Change in transfer value over the year g 544,496 schemes a 1998 scheme under which option grants were made from 1998 to 2004 and a 2005 scheme under which option 1.
The accrued pension shown in r ow a was the amount which would be paid at normal grants were made from 2005 to 2010.
No further option grants retirement age, ignoring any revaluation, if The Hon C W Cayzer had left service at 31 March 2012. have been made under these schemes as all share-based 2.
The tr ansfer value was the present value of the accrued pension and associated beneits at long term incentives for 2011 onwards were awarded under the relevant date.
Transfer values are calculated using the transfer value basis as the performance share scheme approved by shareholders in determined by the trustees of the Caledonia Pension Scheme.
The tr ansfer value shown in row d represented the value of the increase in accrued July 2011. pension net of CPI inlation during the year, as set out in r ow c. 4.
The change in tr ansfer value over the year shown in row g calculated as row e less row Under the terms of both executive share option schemes, options f relected the impact on transfer values of factors beyond the control of the company may be exercised between three and ten years after the date of and the directors, such as movements in stock markets.
Disclosed changes in value may grant, although only one-third of the shares comprised in an therefore be subject to a large degree of volatility and may even be negative.
In particular, the transfer values shown as at 31 March 2012 and 31 March 2011 are based on different option may be exercised after three years from grant, with the assumptions relecting changes in market conditions between tho se two dates and, for remaining two-thirds becoming exercisable six years after grant.
illustration, the 2012 transfer value would have been approximately 13% lower using the Options may only be exercised if performance targets are met.
These assumptions are however regularly updated and therefore transfer values may luctuate signiicantly between any two gi en points in time.
v 52 Annual report 2012 Caledonia Investments plc Directors remuneration report continued The performance targets for all of the outstanding options under The performance targets have been met for all outstanding the 1998 scheme have been tested.
The performance target for options shown in the table below granted up to 2006.
The options the 2005 scheme requires that 50% of the shares comprised in an granted in 2009 have failed to achieve the FTSE All-Share index option will vest if Caledonias NAV per share outperforms the related performance target and accordingly 50% have lapsed.
Retail Prices Index by at least 9% over the measurement period.
As at 31 March 2012, the market price of the companys shares The other 50% of the shares comprised in the option will vest if was 1486p 2011 1725p and the range during the year was NAV per share outperforms the FTSE All-Share index by at least 1337p to 1800p.
The measurement period for these purposes is the period of three inancial years measured at Options to acquire ordinary shares in the company held as at the end of the third inancial year following the date of gran of t 31 March 2012, or date of resignation if earlier, by those directors the options.
There is no re-testing of the performance targets.
who served during the year and gains on the exercise of share To the extent that the performance target is not met over this options were as shown in the following table.
three year period, the options will lapse.
Mr Ma y resigned as a director on 30 September 2011.
Included within the options granted on 21 May 2010 are 294 HMRC approved options, which are only exercisable between 1 October 2011 and 30 September 2012.
Governance Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2012 53 In respect of the termination of Mr Mays employment, the all stocks Total Return index.
In each case, the performance Remuneration Committee exercised its discretion under the 2005 period is a period of three inancial years commencing with th e executive share option scheme such that all of the share options inancial year in which the awards are granted.
Awards will vet s granted to him up to 2006, which had satisied their performanc e on a graduated basis, with 10% vesting on 0.5% outperformance targets prior to his resignation date being an aggregate of of the relevant benchmark, rising on a straight line basis to 38,496 shares, would become fully exercisable for a period of maximum vesting on 3.5% outperformance of the relevant one year following his resignation date.
In respect of the options benchmark.
There is no re-testing of either performance target over 35,269 shares granted to Mr May in 2009, the Remuneration and, to the extent that a performance target is not met, the Committee agreed that, based on the performance targets relevant awards will lapse.
For the purposes of calculating the measured to the date of his resignation, 50% of the shares performance measures, an average of the igures for the comprised in the option should vest and 50% should lapse.
The companys NAV per share and the two benchmark indices vested shares were then further reduced to relect the period o f published over the three months prior to the start and end of the time that had elapsed since the grant date, leaving options over performance period is used to reduce volatility.
13,753 shares which may be exercised within the twelve months For both the 2011 performance share scheme and the 2011 following Mr Mays resignation date.
As regards the options over deferred bonus plan, the Remuneration Committee has chosen 38,784 shares granted to Mr May in 2010, options over 1,293 the FTSE All-Share Total Return index as a performance shares were HMRC approved options and the remainder over condition as it believes that this is the best way to incentivise 37,491 shares were unapproved options.
The Remuneration executives to deliver continued strong NAV per share total Committee determined that 50% of the HMRC approved options return performance.
This underpins Caledonias objective of should lapse on Mr Mays termination date and 50% should vest, achieving total shareholder return in excess of the FTSE with the vested options further reduced to relect the period t hat All-Share Total Return index.
The FTSE Actuaries UK Indexhad elapsed since the date of grant.
The remaining vested HMRC linked Gilts all stocks Total Return index has also been chosen approved options over 294 shares may be exercised by Mr May as a performance measure for both of the 2011 long term within the twelve months following his resignation date.
In incentive plans as the Remuneration Committee regards it as respect of the unapproved options over 37,491 shares, the relective of the companys aim to provide a long term store Remuneration Committee agreed that these should also be of wealth for its shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee reduced to relect the period of time that had elapsed since te h believes that these targets, tested over a three year period, date of grant, but that the remaining options over 17,016 shares are signiicantly challenging and would reward executives for should be preserved until their normal performance test date, delivering superior performance.
at which point they should vest or lapse to the extent that the performance targets are met or not at that time.
Any options The Remuneration Committee may amend the performance that vest following such performance measurement will be targets if events occur that would make the amended targets a exercisable by Mr May in the twelve month period thereafter.
fairer measure of performance and provided that any amended targets are no more dificult to satisfy.
The Remuneration There have been no changes in directors options to acquire Committee will also have the ability to impose different ordinary shares up to the date of this report.
performance targets in the future, provided that any targets Statement on directors performance share scheme awards imposed are no less demanding than described above.
Any such audited amended or different performance targets will be described in At the companys annual general meeting held on 21 July 2011, the directors remuneration report for the relevant year.
shareholders gave their approval for the adoption of a new To the extent that a performance target is met, awards may be performance share scheme to replace the existing 2005 executive exercised between the date of vesting and the tenth anniversary share option scheme.
Under the performance share scheme, of the date of grant, except that only two-thirds of the shares that participants are awarded nil-cost options over shares, rather have vested may normally be exercisable after three years from than options based on the current market value of those shares.
grant, with the remaining one-third normally becoming Nil-cost options awarded under the 2011 performance share exercisable ive years after grant.
On exercise, the participat n scheme are subject to performance targets related to the will also receive an amount equal to the dividends that would companys diluted NAV per share on a total return basis have accrued on the shares comprised in the award during the measured against a benchmark index.
For two-thirds of the relevant three or ive year period.
shares comprised in an award, the benchmark is the FTSE Performance share scheme awards held by directors who served All-Share Total Return index and, for the remaining one-third, during the year ended 31 March 2012 were as follows: the benchmark is the FTSE Actuaries UK Index-linked Gilts Number of nil-cost options Market Market Vaue at exercise Opening Closing price price 2012 2011 Exercisable Expiry Name Grant date balance Granted Exercised Lapsed balance at award at exercise 000 000 from date date W P Wyatt 11.08.11 37,682 37,682 1545p 11.08.14 11.08.21 The Hon C W Cayzer 11.08.11 22,609 22,609 1545p 11.08.14 11.08.21 J M B Cayzer-Colvin 11.08.11 22,609 22,609 1545p 11.08.14 11.08.21 S A King 11.08.11 26,738 26,738 1545p 11.08.14 11.08.21 109,638 109,638 54 Annual report 2012 Caledonia Investments plc Directors remuneration report continued Statement on executive directors service contracts and the Chairmans and non-executive directors letters of appointment Executive directors have service contracts with Caledonia Group Services Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, details of which are summarised below: Name Date of contract Notice period Unexpired term W P Wyatt 02.06.05 12 months Rolling 12 months The Hon C W Cayzer 11.06.02 12 months Rolling 12 months J M B Cayzer-Colvin 19.04.05 12 months Rolling 12 months S A King 19.11.09 12 months Rolling 12 months Directors service contracts contain provisions whereby the company may, in its discretion, terminate the contract without notice and make a lump sum payment in lieu of notice and other than in the case of Mr Kings service contract whereby a liquidated sum is payable in the event of termination within one year following a change of control.
Any such payment in lieu of notice or liquidated sum would be equivalent to no more than one years total emoluments.
Mr Kings service contract contains provisions whereby, as an alternative to the payment of a lump sum in lieu of notice, the company may elect to pay the equivalent amount in equal monthly instalments, such instalments to be reduced by 50% of one-twelfth of the basic salary in excess of 20,000 per annum that Mr King receives from any alternative employment that he takes up during the notice period.
The service contract of The Hon C W Cayzer is also subject to a provision whereby, in the event of a payment in lieu of notice or payment of a liquidated sum on termination, he would be entitled to an increase in his pensionable service equivalent to the unexpired period of notice under his contract.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors do not have service contracts, but are appointed under letters of appointment which provide for termination without notice or compensation.
Executive directors service contracts and the Chairmans and non-executive directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the registered ofice of the company.
The directors remuneration report was approved by the board on 24 May 2012 and signed on its behalf by: Mark Davies Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
