Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 on capital management, its exposure to allot unissued shares and, subject Directors Remuneration Report to the limits therein contained, to allot to financial risks and its policies and shares for cash other than to existing processes to manage those risks.
shareholders in proportion to their shareholdings.
The Group maintains on-going forecasts that indicate profitability in 2012 13 The resolution enabling the directors and beyond.
Stress test scenarios are We have reviewed how we pay our most senior to allot shares other than to existing undertaken, the outcomes of which show people.
Our approach fits the unique needs of shareholders in proportion to their that the Group has adequate capital shareholdings is limited to the resources for the foreseeable future even in Hargreaves Lansdown, whilst acknowledging allotment of shares up to a maximum extreme adverse economic conditions.
The the demands of good corporate governance nominal value of 94,863.72, which Groups business is highly cash generative represents 5% of the total ordinary with a low working capital requirement: and focusing on pay for performance.
indeed, the forecast cash flows show that share capital in issue as at 14 September 2012. the Group will remain highly liquid in the forthcoming financial year.
Both of these resolutions seek authorities which are in accordance After reviewing the Groups financial with the current guidelines issued forecasts including an assessment of Dear Shareholder We have consulted with our shareholders if the Hargreaves Lansdown share and we believe that the proposals price goes up.
In addition, there will by the Investment Committees of the regulatory and working capital, the Association of British Insurers and the Directors are confident that the Company 2012 was again a year of excellent described here balance the unique needs be a number of performance criteria National Association of Pension Funds.
and the Group have adequate financial performance for Hargreaves Lansdown.
of Hargreaves Lansdown and its Directors determining the proportion of the new both Executive and Subsidiary Directors, share options that can be exercised by resources available to continue in The Remuneration Committee was iii Adoption of a new executive share operational existence for the foreseeable delighted by the strong results of the acknowledges the wide range of feedback Directors.
option scheme: A resolution is being future.
The going concern basis has Company delivered by the CEO and his that we have received, and focuses on pay We are also taking the opportunity to simplify the shareholding requirements proposed as special business at the continued to be adopted in the preparation executive team.
The strong profits, growth for performance.
in EPS, increased dividends and excellent for Directors.
AGM on 23 November 2012 to enable directors to adopt a new executive client service achieved in volatile market Key proposed changes share option scheme.
Disclosure of information to auditor conditions were very pleasing.
The We will maintain our existing policy of When and how will we make the proposed Each of the persons who is a director at Committee felt this warranted rewards lower than market base salaries and a changes Further details of the proposals the date of approval of this annual report comparable to last year.
strong focus on performance based pay.
We are proposing to implement the new are included within the Directors confirms that: remuneration policy during the year Objectives The main proposed changes are: ended 30th June 2013.
There will be two Remuneration Report, and full details will be provided in the shareholders Notice of so far as the director is aware, there is The Remuneration Committee has A cap on the aggregate annual votes on executive remuneration at our AGM.
no relevant audit information of which worked to ensure that our approach to Performance Bonus pool for Directors forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
There The Directors Remuneration Report will the Companys auditor is unaware: and remuneration helps to motivate and retain Deloitte LLP have expressed their the director has taken all the steps that our talented employees.
We want our previously was no cap.
be put to an advisory vote.
We require willingness to continue in office as auditor they ought to have taken as a director, people to have a competitive remuneration In future 30% of all annual formal shareholder approval before we can implement the proposed new Share Option and a resolution to reappoint them will in order to make themselves aware of package.
Our incentives are aligned to Performance Bonuses will be waived be proposed at the forthcoming Annual any relevant audit information and to the goals of our clients and reward the into deferred share awards, deferred Plan.
We look forward to receiving your General Meeting.
establish that the Companys auditor is creation of value for our shareholders.
cash awards, or a mixture of the two.
support for both resolutions, which will aware of that information.
Deferred awards will be transferred give us a modern performance related pay Salaries to the individual after 3 years if they structure.
Going concern The Directors have assessed, in the light This confirmation is given and should The base salaries of the Executive Directors remain with the Hargreaves Lansdown of current and anticipated economic be interpreted in accordance with the will remain unchanged with effect from 1 Group.
This change will be phased Jonathan Bloomer July 2012.
In this report, unless otherwise in over the next two years for current Chairman of the Remuneration Committee conditions, the Groups ability to continue provisions of s418 of the Companies Act as a going concern.
The principal risks 2006. specified, base salary means the reference employees.
that the Group is challenged with have base salary of an Executive Director before We are introducing formal claw back 14 September 2012 provisions on future deferred awards been set out on page 24 along with how By order of the Board any salary sacrifice or exchange into the Directors mitigate these risks in the pension or other benefits.
and on future unvested share option current economic climate.
The Groups Judy Matthews grants.
business activities, financial position, Company Secretary Review of senior executive remuneration We are proposing to introduce a new cash flows, liquidity position, together 14 September 2012 Our remuneration policy has been very Share Option Plan under which regular with the factors likely to affect its future successful over many years.
However grants will be made each year.
Share development, performance and position good companies consistently evolve and Options will be granted at the market modernise, so we have reviewed how we value at the time of grant.
This means are set out in the Business Review.
In addition, note 27 to the Financial pay our senior executives.
that Directors will only make a gain Statements includes the Groups policy 46 47 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction
