Corporate Governance Remuneration report This strong linkage between performance and reward demonstrates Dear Shareholder that our remuneration policies and the associated reward packages for Executive Directors and members of the Management Board Regulatory changes are, indeed, closely aligned to the delivery of the Groups strategic I became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in April 2012, goals.
Over the same five-year period, the majority of our shareholders during a time of change in the regulatory landscape for the setting has supported our approach to remuneration and has given a and reporting of directors remuneration.
In June 2012 the positive advisory vote on the remuneration report in 2012 with a Business Secretary, Vince Cable, proposed reforms to the 94.77% vote in favour.
governance of executive pay and the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills BIS has also consulted on remuneration Evaluation of the Remuneration Committee disclosures with regulations expected to be introduced for During 2012, the Committee has continued to build on the conclusions of previous Board evaluations.
The number of companies reporting years ending on or after 1 October 2013. scheduled meetings was increased from two to three in 2012 plus This means that this remuneration report will be the last in the an additional ad hoc meeting and it increases to four in 2013 with present format.
In future, it is expected that it will be split into a detailed forward planning agenda being prepared.
An internally two distinct sections: a policy report and an implementation facilitated evaluation of the Committee was conducted in 2012. report.
The aim is to allow shareholders access to better quality Specific details are set out below but the key focus for me is the information that is more clearly set out and that demonstrates need for improved consultation with investors and other key how executive remuneration directly links to each companys stakeholders on our remuneration policies ahead of their strategy and performance.
presentation in the new style remuneration report and vote at the Our remuneration report in the past has been commended by a 2014 AGM.
As the new Chairman of the Committee, I look forward number of our shareholders for its detail, clarity and transparency: to meeting a cross-section of shareholders and their representative and we are working hard to continue to make sure that we meet bodies during the year to discuss these issues.
our shareholders expectations as well as comply with the new regulations.
The Committee has set aside extra time in 2013 to review all aspects of our executive remuneration policies prior to Dr Gerry Murphy shareholder consideration of the policy report at the AGM in 2014.
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 2012 in summary Analysis of past performance It is important that executive pay at British American Tobacco is aligned to the Companys performance.
The Committee therefore asked its remuneration consultants to examine both the performance of the Companys incentive schemes as well as shareholder returns over the last five years to 31 December 2011.
Their analysis looked at the recent payouts under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP and International Executive Incentive Scheme IEIS and assessed these against analysts forecasts at the time of awards.
The analysis showed that total shareholder return of the Company over that period was 155% compared to 6% for the FTSE 100.
With regard to both the LTIP and IEIS pay-outs, these had been in the median to upper quartile range over that five-year period, and had been above the upper quartile in the last three years.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 69 Corporate Governance Remuneration report continued The Committee is authorised by the Board to obtain, at the Companys expense, outside legal or other independent professional advice.
Remuneration Committee During the year, Deloitte provided remuneration services and advice to the Remuneration Committee at a cost of 270,150 2011: 101,800.
Current members In 2012, these services included additional comparator group analysis Dr Gerry Murphy Chairman of the performance of the Companys incentive schemes over the last Ann Godbehere five years and attendance at associated meetings including briefing Christine Morin-Postel sessions for the recently appointed Group Human Resources Director Kieran Poynter and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Deloitte is an international professional services firm which, during the year, has During the year ended 31 December 2012, the Remuneration also provided tax, corporate finance and consulting services to British Committee comprised all of the Non-Executive Directors of the American Tobacco Group companies around the world.
Dr Gerry Murphy succeeded Anthony Ruys as also a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and a Chairman of the Committee with effect from the conclusion of the signatory to the voluntary code of conduct in relation to executive Annual General Meeting on 26 April 2012. remuneration consulting in the UK.
Karen fide Segundo, Robert Lerwill, Anthony Ruys and Sir Nicholas Herbert Smith LLP has also been retained by the Company to Scheele all stood down as members of the Remuneration Committee provide legal advice in respect of the Companys share schemes, as with effect from 27 February 2013.
Dr Gerry Murphy Chairman of well as providing other legal services to British American Tobacco as the Remuneration Committee, Ann Godbehere, Christine Morina whole.
Ernst & Young LLP provides tax advice to international Postel and Kieran Poynter will all continue as members of the assignees and in respect of the Companys share schemes.
Committee: the slimmed-down membership brings this Committee into alignment with the other principal Committees of the Companys Board and with best practice.
It will facilitate the Summary Terms of Reference Companys continuing review and focus on Directors remuneration in the light of the Governments reforms on executive pay.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for: At the date of this report the Committee comprises the independent setting executive remuneration policies covering salary and Non-Executive Directors of the Company as set out in the box above.
benefits: performance-based variable rewards: pensions: and the terms of service contracts: Attendance at meetings in 2012 determining, within the terms of the agreed policy, the Name Attended Eligible to attend specific remuneration packages for the Chairman, the Gerry Murphy 4 4 Executive Directors and the members of the Management Karen fide Segundo 4 4 Board, both on appointment and on review and, if 1 appropriate, any compensation payment due on termination Ann Godbehere 3 4 of appointment: Robert Lerwill 4 4 the setting of targets applicable for the Companys performanceChristine Morin-Postel 4 4 based variable reward schemes and determining achievement Kieran Poynter 4 4 against those targets, exercising discretion where appropriate Anthony Ruys 4 4 and as provided by the applicable scheme rules: and Sir Nicholas Scheele 4 4 monitoring and advising the Board on any major changes Note: to the policy on employee benefit structures for the British American Tobacco Group.
1 Ann Godbehere was unable to attend a meeting due to a conflicting long-standing prior engagement.
The Committees current terms of reference are available on www.
No Executive Director or Management Board member plays any part in determining his or her own remuneration.
In determining remuneration for the year, the Committee considered reports from Deloitte LLP, the Committees remuneration consultants, and also consulted the Chief Executive, the Group Human Resources Director and the Group Head of Reward.
The Remuneration Committee is authorised by the Board to seek any information it requires from, and require the attendance at any of its meetings of, any Director or member of management.
During the year ended 31 December 2012, both the Chief Executive and the Chairman were consulted and invited to attend meetings of the Committee.
70 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee evaluation 2012 Process the Remuneration Committee was the subject of an Committee is considered to be effective in discharging its in-depth, externally facilitated, evaluation in both 2010 and 2011. obligations and fulfilling its remit.
In 2012 the Company Secretary conducted an internal evaluation Findings, action points and progress these developments into the effectiveness of the Committee, including a review of the build upon the 2011 evaluation and are set out below: action points raised over the previous two years.
Overall, the Number and structure of meetings Finding Action points progress The Committee had already increased its scheduled meetings The number of formal meetings has also been increased again as a result of the previous years evaluation and revised its to four scheduled meetings in 2013 and additional time has calendar of agenda items.
been allocated for those meetings.
This reflects a revised and expanded agenda which allows the Committee to plan for the new regulatory environment and disclosures required in 2014.
Remuneration policy and strategy Finding Action points progress The Groups approach to its reward strategy has been to keep This approach is unlikely to change but the Committee is keen it as simple and as straightforward as possible.
to ensure that the reward strategy remains closely aligned with the Groups business strategy as it is evolving.
Consultation with institutional shareholders Finding Action points progress This is currently organised on an ad hoc basis although the With the new regulatory framework being introduced the Chairman of the Company, Richard Burrows, regularly meets Committee recognises that a more formalised approach may with shareholders and discusses remuneration issues with them.
be necessary and indeed welcomed by shareholders.
During 2013, the Committee will be considering how best to consult with shareholders.
determined the LTIP awards for March 2012 for the Executive Key activities of the Remuneration Directors and members of the Management Board and the Committee in 2012 general LTIP population and their associated performance The Remuneration Committee met four times during 2012: three conditions: scheduled meetings in February, July and October and an ad hoc assessed the achievement of the targets for the 2011 Share meeting in December.
The Committee followed its regular work Reward Scheme award and set the targets for the 2012 award: programme in respect of which it: monitored the continued application of the Companys benchmarked, reviewed and set the salaries for the Executive shareholding guidelines for the Executive Directors and the Directors and the Management Board members taking into Management Board members: account the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in maintained oversight of the Groups salary review processes to the Group, and particularly in the UK: ensure consistency of application: assessed the achievement of the targets for the 2011 IEIS reviewed the remuneration report for the year ended 2011 award and set the IEIS targets for 2012: prior to its approval by the Board and subsequent approval assessed the measurement of the performance conditions by shareholders at the AGM in April 2012: and for the vesting of the LTIP 2009 award: British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 71 Corporate Governance Remuneration report continued conducted a preliminary review in October 2012 of the a proposal to allow senior managers including certain current remuneration policy and approach for the review of members of the Management Board impacted by the UK salaries scheduled for February 2013, including specific pension tax on pension accruals over 50,000 per annum, to opt to exchange the current allowance of 20% of salary in changes to the constituents of the Pay Comparator Group.
excess of 95% of the pension schemes salary cap, for a In addition, the Remuneration Committee considered the 1 60th accrual defined benefit promise in the unfunded following: unapproved retirement benefit scheme UURBS : an analysis of the voting patterns in respect of the advisory certain changes to the Company car scheme and cash for vote on the Companys remuneration report over the last car allowances for the Executive Directors and Management five years: Board members which had significantly fallen below median since last reviewed in January 2006 with effect from 1 April an examination and analysis of shareholder returns and the 2012 in tandem with parallel equivalent changes for the UK performance of the Companys incentive schemes over the eligible population: last five years looking in particular at the returns compared a number of briefing notes regarding the voting guidelines of to the FTSE 100 and the payouts under the LTIP and IEIS the Companys largest shareholders together with updates on including an assessment of these against analysts forecasts the reforms of the Department of Business Innovation & Skills at the time of the awards: BIS on executive pay and the related draft regulations: the terms of appointment and termination in connection for the IEIS, the introduction of an extended definition of the with Management Board appointments and departures Global Drive Brand volume metric to include volume targets during the year: for the Fine Cut tobacco category in Western Europe at a local the Chief Executives Brazilian pension entitlements the end market level for specific markets only: and Fundao Albino Souza Cruz FASC : a review of the report on the effectiveness of the Remuneration Committee as outlined above.
in the respective payout or vesting under those incentive schemes.
Remuneration policy It is rare that the Committee exercises this discretion as it will ordinarily rely on the actual performance outcomes in its assessment of the Group reward strategy: Companys performance.
a straightforward approach The Company continues to apply a simple, straightforward and Key performance indicators understandable approach to remuneration.
The remuneration Financially based Group key performance indicators KPIs linked to package comprises core fixed elements base salary, pension and the Groups strategy form the majority of the performance-related other benefits and two performance-based variable elements bonus metrics with market share being an important additional a single cash and share incentive annual bonus plan IEIS, non-financial indicator.
The Executive Directors and the members of and a single long-term incentive scheme LTIP with the the Management Board are also held accountable for their performance performance-based elements forming approximately 60% of the in respect of other business measures comprising a mixture of other total remuneration package.
This simple remuneration structure is financial and non-financial targets.
Payouts and grants under the expected to continue although the Remuneration Committee will respective incentive schemes are directly linked to the Companys review the policy elements applicable to the IEIS and LTIP during objectives, achieving a high level of alignment with the long-term 2013 ahead of the presentation of the full remuneration policy to interests of the Company and its shareholders.
shareholders at the AGM in 2014.
The Remuneration Committee may, within the limits of the rules Fixed and variable remuneration of the IEIS and LTIP, exercise its discretionary powers in the The current Executive Directors percentage of fixed and variable determination of a bonus or incentive award and later in its remuneration for 2012 is illustrated in the bar chart on this page.
assessment of the applicable performance conditions resulting This is based on a number of assumptions: 1 base salary is annual salary: 2 pension represents the annual service cost to the Company as disclosed in accordance with IAS24: 3 benefits are core benefits such as car allowance, private medical and personal accident insurance: 4 bonus is the amount received for performance in 2012 delivered in cash and deferred shares: and 5 LTIP is the annualised expected value at target performance of the long-term incentive award granted in 2012 expressed as a percentage of base salary.
Fixed remuneration comprises: salary, 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 pension and benefits.
Variable remuneration comprises: bonus cash and deferred shares and LTIP.
72 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Incentive schemes: verification of performance Salary The Companys strategy clearly underpins the remuneration policy for all employees.
In particular, performance criteria for the IEIS are Purpose reward individual performance aligned to the Groups KPIs see business review.
Awards under the reflect skills and experience LTIP only vest to the extent that total shareholder returns and attract and retain key management talent earnings per share have met appropriate thresholds.
The design of Delivery monthly the IEIS and its positioning as the Companys sole bonus scheme cash means that the risk of inappropriate individual behaviours driving Policy annual review in February with salary changes reward opportunities is minimised.
The methodology used and the effective from April or ad hoc review on a calculations performed in determining the annual outcomes of the significant change of responsibilities IEISs four performance measures are reported on by the external reviewed against general pay trends and a auditors.
Further, internal audit also provides a relevant control company size and complexity model coupled framework see audit and accountability in the corporate governance with: 1 the Pay Comparator Group: and, for section.
The Remuneration Committee is therefore confident that Executive Directors, 2 published salary data of there are clear processes in place to provide sufficient comfort that listed companies of a similar size and the Company only rewards verified performance.
complexity to the Company reviewed against contextualised individual Remuneration comparator group performance The setting of remuneration for Executive Directors remains base salary is pensionable underpinned by responsible assessment against a comparator 2012 update no change to policy group.
The approach is focused on a peer group made up of minor revisions to the Pay Comparator Group companies that meet the criteria of a consumer goods focus, an international spread of operations and a competitor for top Process management talent.
It includes selected FTSE 100 companies and, The process of salary review for the Executive Directors and the the Groups key competitor, Philip Morris International the Pay Management Board members takes into account outcomes arising Comparator Group.
This is supplemented by market data of from the salary review process for senior managers and other levels listed companies of a similar size and complexity to the Company, in the organisation.
The Committee then applies the key policy as well as the practice of the FTSE 30 companies.
The Pay Comparator principles set out in the table above.
Group as at 31 December 2012 is set out below.
Base salary at Base salary from AstraZeneca Reckitt Benckiser 1 April 2012 1 April 2013 BP Reed Elsevier Executive Directors salaries BT Group Royal Dutch Shell Nicandro Durante Chief Executive 1,100,000 1,050,000 Diageo SABMiller Ben Stevens GlaxoSmithKline Tesco Finance Director and Imperial Tobacco Group Unilever Chief Information Officer 817,000 782,000 Pearson Vodafone John Daly Philip Morris International WPP Group Chief Operating Officer 721,000 690,000 Increases for 2013 Changes for 2013 The Management Board members in role will receive salary In October 2012, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the increases averaging around 3.9% and in the range from 2.1% to rationale for and the constituents of the Pay Comparator Group.
It 5.3%: UK based employees will receive salary increases averaging concluded that: 1 notwithstanding the Groups global business, around 3.5%, in each case with effect from 1 April 2013. the orientation of the current Pay Comparator Group towards UK listed companies remained appropriate: and 2 comparator Benefits in kind companies Associated British Foods, British Sky Broadcasting and In addition to basic salary, the Executive Directors receive certain Marks & Spencer be removed on the grounds of a smaller level of benefits in kind, principally: a car or car allowance: the use of a driver: market capitalisation and or limited international scope, with the the installation and then maintenance of home security systems: tax revisions being implemented in time for the 2013 salary review.
advice where appropriate : and private medical and personal life and accident insurance.
With effect from 1 February 2013, the Executive Directors and members of the Management Board were additionally eligible for general practitioner walk-in medical services.
With the exception of the car or car allowance it is also the practice of the Company to pay the tax that may be due on any such benefits.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 73 Corporate Governance Remuneration report continued Operation of the IEIS Performance-related bonus The IEIS rewards short-term business performance within the International Executive Incentive context of the Groups longer-term strategy.
Appropriately stretching business and financial performance targets are set by Scheme IEIS the Remuneration Committee at the beginning of each year.
The annual bonus opportunity for 2012 remained unchanged with Purpose incentivise the attainment of corporate targets four measures and associated weightings as set out above.
These on an annual basis four performance measures provide a simple and appropriate mix attract and retain key management talent of criteria that look to assess the vitality and performance of the Company while still providing full clarity for both shareholders and Delivery annual award eligible participants about the required areas of performance.
50% cash 50% shares deferred shares through the Measures of performance Deferred Share Bonus Scheme Relevant performance points for each of the four measures are: variable subject to Companys performance over threshold which must be exceeded to attract any bonus payout in preceding 12 months respect of that measure : target which amounts to the budgeted dividend equivalent payment performance : and maximum the level of performance, exceeding Policy four measures for performance for 2012 with budget, and at which the bonus payout for that measure is capped.
referenced the following weightings: adjusted profit from No element of the bonus is guaranteed and, as in previous years, the to strategic operations 40% : Groups share of key specific performance targets are commercially sensitive and not performance subsidiary markets 20% : Global Drive Brand made public.
measures key volumes 20% : and cash flow from performance operations 20% Senior managers indicators the annual on-target bonus opportunity for the For senior managers only the total payouts reflect performance at KPIs as Chief Executive is 100% of base salary with a a global, regional, area or end market level, as applicable to their highlighted maximum award of 200% of salary, and for the roles.
The annual bonus opportunity for senior managers remained Chief Operating Officer and the Finance Director unchanged in 2012 with the annual on-target bonus opportunity and Chief Information Officer the on-target being 45% of base salary with a normal maximum award of bonus opportunity is 90% with a maximum 90% of salary rising to 135% of base salary in cases of excellent award of 180% performance.
The award for senior managers continues to be for the Management Board the on-target delivered in variable proportions split between cash and deferred bonus opportunity is 67.5% of the base salary shares according to grade.
with a maximum award of 135% of salary awards are non-pensionable Assessment of performance In February each year, the Committee receives a report allowing it 2012 update structure and potential bonus opportunity to assess the extent to which each of the performance measures remain unchanged has been achieved.
Subject to the Committee exercising its review of IEIS scheduled for 2013 judgment with regard to the Companys overall performance, a limited extension in 2013 to the definition of the total payout is determined by the Companys performance the Global Drive Brand volume metric for each measure relative to that measures performance points.
74 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Performance 2012 In respect of the year ended 31 December 2012, the performance against the measures and the total payouts under the IEIS were: Between threshold Between target IEIS: measures of performance Threshold and target Target and maximum Maximum Performance in 2012 2011 : Adjusted profit from operations 40% Groups share of key subsidiary markets 20% Global Drive Brands volumes 20% Cash flow from operations 20% In respect of the year ended 31 December 2012, the total payouts IEIS 2013: revision under the IEIS are shown below.
The actual performance-related The introduction of an extended definition of the Global Drive payments are shown in Table 5 of the appendices to the remuneration Brand volume metric to include volume targets for the Fine Cut report annual cash bonus and deferred share bonus on pages 89-91. tobacco category in Western Europe at a local end market level for specific markets only.
The introduction of this very specific target Payout: was driven by a combination of changing consumer behaviour 50% in cash, 50% 201 1 2012 allied with particular economic factors in that region and will have in deferred shares % % a marginal impact only on the targets set at Group level for the Nicandro Durante Global Drive Brand volume metric for the Executive Directors and Chief Executive 170.1 200.0 members of the Management Board.
Ben Stevens Finance Director and Deferred Share Bonus Scheme Chief Information Officer 153.1 180.0 Awards made under the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme are in the John Daly form of free ordinary shares in the Company that are normally Chief Operating Officer 153.1 180.0 held in trust for three years and no further performance conditions Management Board members 114.8 135.0 apply in that period.
This element of reward deferral has been a key element of the Companys bonus structure for a number of For senior managers whose bonus was linked to global performance years and, in certain circumstances, such as resigning before the the total payout under the IEIS in respect of the year ended end of the three-year period, participants may forfeit all of the 31 December 2012 was 102.1% 2011: 135%, paid 61.6% shares.
The Remuneration Committee encourages a culture of in cash and 40.5% in deferred shares.
ownership of these awarded shares and participants receive a cash sum equivalent to the dividend on the after-tax position of all unvested ordinary shares held in the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme at the dividend record date.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 75 Corporate Governance Remuneration report continued LTIP dividend payments Long-term incentives Since 2005, participants have been entitled to receive a dividend Purpose incentivise growth in earnings per share and total equivalent payment to the value of the dividends that they would have shareholder return TSR over a three-year period received as shareholders on their vesting awards.
The LTIP dividend attract and retain key management talent equivalent payment continues to be important in aligning further the interests of senior management with those of shareholders.
The values Delivery discretionary annual award of the LTIP dividend equivalent payments for the Executive Directors awards of shares are shown as individual emoluments in Tables 4 and 5. variable subject to Company performance over three-year period Following assessment by the Remuneration Committee, LTIP awards are normally exercisable after three years and only to the dividend equivalent payment extent that the performance conditions are satisfied at the end of Policy maximum annual award of 400% of salary the three-year performance period.
Any proportion of an award referenced three-year performance period that lapses does not attract the payment of the LTIP dividend to strategic TSR performance 50% of the total award equivalent payment.
performance combines both the share price and dividend measures key performance during the three-year performance Performance performance period as against two comparator groups 25% indicators The percentage of award vesting is based on a combination of for each measure : 1 constituents of the FTSE KPIs as total shareholder return TSR and earnings per share EPS 100 Index: and 2 a peer group of international highlighted performance conditions measured over a three year period.
The FMCG companies Remuneration Committee periodically reviews the suitability of earnings per share measure 50% of the total TSR and EPS as performance measures.
The Committee continues award relates to earnings per share growth on to ensure that the current combination of measures provides a an adjusted diluted basis relative to inflation balance relevant to the Groups business and market conditions as measured as RPI well as providing a common goal for the Executive Directors, the 2012 update no changes to the LTIP Management Board members and shareholders.
The long-term element of remuneration continues to be delivered TSR performance condition through the Companys LTIP.
All the Executive Directors, Management A total of 50% of the total award is based on the Companys Board members and senior employees participate in the LongTSR performance against two comparator groups 25% for each Term Incentive Plan adopted in 2007 the 2007 LTIP.
The 2007 measure : 1 the constituents of the London Stock Exchanges FTSE LTIP provides for awards of free ordinary shares, provided demanding 100 Index at the beginning of the performance period: and 2 a and appropriately stretching performance conditions are met over peer group of international FMCG companies.
In the event of a three-year period.
upper quartile performance by the Company relative to both of the comparator groups, 50% of the total award vests in full.
6% of the Award levels total award vests for median performance.
There is pro rata vesting The current award levels for Executive Directors and Management between these two points.
The TSR portions of an LTIP award do Board members are set out in the table below.
Senior managers not vest for below median performance.
receive awards of 75% or 25% of salary dependent on grade.
Comparator groups Multiple of base Multiple of base These comparator groups, which are regularly reviewed to ensure salary % salary % LTIP awards 2012 2011 that they will remain both relevant and representative, are chosen to reflect the Companys financial and business trading environments.
Chief Executive 400 400 Finance Director and Chief As at 31 December 2012, the following LTIP awards were outstanding Information Officer 300 300 and the applicable FMCG peer group in respect of each of those awards is shown below: Chief Operating Officer 300 300 Management Board 200 200 Outstanding LTIP Awards 31 December 2012 Award date Vesting date 28 March 2012 28 March 2015 13 May 2011 13 May 2014 25 March 2010 25 March 2013 76 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance EPS targets FMCG peer group These EPS targets are consistent with and support the Companys Anheuser-Busch HJ Heinz Nestl strategy to deliver high single-digit EPS growth on average over InBev the medium to long term.
The Remuneration Committee considers Campbell Soup Imperial Tobacco PepsiCo that these current targets continue to be appropriately stretching.
Group Carlsberg Japan Tobacco Pernod Ricard Calculation of EPS Coca-Cola Johnson & Johnson Philip Morris Growth in EPS for these purposes is calculated on an adjusted International diluted EPS basis using a formula which incorporates: 1 an Colgate-Palmolive Kellogg Procter & Gamble increase in adjusted diluted EPS between the base year and the Danone Kimberley-Clark Reckitt Benckiser final year of the performance period, expressed as an annual 1 growth rate over the period: and 2 the annualised retail price Diageo Kraft Foods SABMiller 2 RPI growth between the last month of the year immediately Heineken LVMH Sara Lee preceding the performance period and the last month of the final Unilever financial year of the performance period.
Notes: This method is considered to be a fair and reasonable measure 1 Kraft Foods demerged into Kraft Foods Group and Mondelez International of performance.
in October 2012: Mondelez International is now tracked.
2 Sara Lee Corporation completed the spin-off of fide Master Blenders 1753 Vesting of LTIP award made in 2010 and renamed the remaining business as Hillshire Brands.
Neither of these new entities is tracked following the demerger.
An LTIP award was made to Executive Directors and Management Board members on 25 March 2010 with the performance period Measurement of TSR being completed at 31 December 2012 the 2010 Award.
The TSR continues to be measured according to the return index Remuneration Committee has assessed the performance of the calculated by Datastream and reviewed by the Companys Company against the two performance conditions.
On the TSR independent advisers.
It is measured on the basis that all measure, the Company ranked 15th out of the FTSE 100 group of companies dividends are reinvested in the shares of those companies, giving a vesting of 25% for performance at the upper companies.
The return is the percentage increase in each quartile.
A vesting of 25% was also achieved for ranking fifth out of companys index over the three-year performance period.
The the peer group of international FMCG companies, this also being opening and closing indices for this calculation are respectively the upper quartile.
EPS growth was 6.5% per annum in excess of average of the index numbers for the last quarter preceding the inflation.
The overall assessment of both LTIP measures, therefore, performance period and for the last quarter of the final year of that resulted in a vesting of 87.1% of the award.
performance period this methodology is employed to reflect In accordance with the rules of the 2007 LTIP, the Remuneration movements of the indices over that time as accurately as possible.
Committee also resolved that the participants would receive an LTIP A local currency basis is used for the purposes of TSR measurement.
dividend equivalent payment on the vesting of their 2010 awards.
This approach is considered to have the benefits of simplicity and directness of comparison with the performance of the comparator Total shareholder return annual % companies and is in line with the historic approach taken by the FTSE 100 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2012 Remuneration Committee for the purposes of TSR measurement.
The FTSE 100 comparison is based on three months average values EPS performance condition 50 British American Tobacco 23.1% Half of the award is based on earnings per share growth relative to 40 inflation.
This element of the award will vest in full if EPS growth over 30 Median 9.2% the three-year performance period is an average of at least 8% per 20 10 annum in excess of inflation.
8% of the award will vest if the EPS 0 growth over the performance period is 3% in excess of inflation.
An -10 award will vest on a pro rata basis between these two points.
None -20 of the EPS portion of an award vests if EPS growth is less than 3% per -30 annum in excess of inflation.
-40 -50 Upper quartile Lower quartile British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 77 Corporate Governance Remuneration report continued 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 Long-Term Incentive Plan vesting of past LTIP clawback provision Since 2011, the rules of the 2007 LTIP have given the Remuneration awards: years ended 2010 to 2012 Committee the discretion to claw back or reduce or forfeit The following table shows the vesting of the award made in 2010 in entirely a participants unvested award.
This would be considered the context of the performance of LTIP awards vesting during the in circumstances where there had been a material mispresentation years ended 31 December 2010 to 31 December 2012, inclusive.
involving the participant in connection with a prior vested award.
LTIP award date 25-Mar-10 27-Mar-09 15-May-08 LTIP change of control Year ended 31-Dec-12 31-Dec-11 31-Dec-10 The rules of the 2007 LTIP provide that in the event of a change of Performance period 2010 2012 2009 2011 2008 2010 control of the Company as a result of a takeover, reconstruction or Vesting date 25-Mar-13 27-Mar-12 15-May-11 winding up of the Company not being an internal reorganisation, TSR FTSE 100 group LTIP awards will become exercisable for a limited period based on of companies: the period of time which has elapsed since the date of the award Ranking upper quartile 15 21 12 and the achievement of the performance conditions at that date, unless the Remuneration Committee determines this not to be Percentage of vesting award 25 25 25 appropriate in the circumstances.
In addition, the 2007 LTIP TSR FMCG peer group: allows as an alternative to early release that participants may, Ranking upper quartile 5 52 if permitted, exchange their LTIP awards for new awards of Percentage of vesting award 25 25 25 shares in the acquiring company on a comparable basis.
Earnings per share growth: Percentage per annum Share schemes above inflation 6.5 10.8 15.9 Percentage of vesting award 37.1 50 50 All-employee share schemes Total vesting percentage 87.1 100 100 The Executive Directors, Management Board members and senior managers are also eligible to participate in the following all-employee share schemes, which are designed to incentivise employees of the Performance graph and historical total Group by giving them opportunities to build a shareholding in the shareholder return performance Company: the British American Tobacco Sharesave Scheme Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Sharesave Scheme and the Employee Share Ownership Plan.
Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 requires that the Company must provide a graph comparing the TSR performance Sharesave Scheme of a hypothetical holding of shares in the Company with a broad The Sharesave Scheme is approved by HM Revenue & Customs equity market index over a five-year period.
Eligible employees, including the Executive Directors and Directors have again chosen to illustrate the performance of TSR Management Board members, have been granted employee against the FTSE 100 Index over a five-year period, commencing savings-related share options to subscribe for ordinary shares in the on 1 January 2008.
In the opinion of the Directors, the FTSE 100 Company.
Options are granted to be exercisable in conjunction Index is the most appropriate index against which TSR should be with either a three-year or five-year savings contract up to a monthly measured because it is a widely used and understood index of limit of 250.
Options are normally granted at a discount of 20% broadly similar sized UK companies to the Company.
78 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance to the market price at the time of the invitation, as permitted under Option Scheme.
The number of shares held in BATGET to satisfy the rules of the Sharesave Scheme.
At 31 December 2012, outstanding awards is consistently monitored by a committee of Nicandro Durante and Ben Stevens each held options under the senior management that reports to the Boards Employee Share Sharesave Scheme.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Funding of the BATGET The Employee Share Ownership Plan is an HMRC-approved share BATGET is funded by interest-free loan facilities from the Company incentive plan, which incorporates a Partnership Scheme and a totalling 600 million, enabling the trust to facilitate the purchase free shares element, the Share Reward Scheme.
of ordinary shares to satisfy the future vesting or exercise of options and awards.
The loan to BATGET amounted to 538 million at 31 December 2012 2011: 424 million.
The loan is either repaid Partnership Share Scheme from the proceeds of the exercise of options or, in the case of The Partnership Share Scheme is open to all eligible employees, ordinary shares acquired by BATGET to satisfy the vesting and including Executive Directors and Management Board members.
exercise of awards, the Company will subsequently waive the loan Employees can allocate part of their pre-tax salary to purchase provided over the life of the awards.
If the options lapse, ordinary shares in the Company.
The maximum amount that can be shares may be sold by BATGET to cover the loan repayment.
allocated in this way is 1,500 in any year.
Shares purchased are held in a UK-based trust, normally capable of transfer to participants Ordinary shares held in the BATGET tax-free after a five-year holding period.
At 31 December 2012, Nicandro Durante participated in the Partnership Share Scheme.
Details of the ordinary shares in the Company held by BATGET are set out below.
Share Reward Scheme 31 December 1 January Under the Share Reward Scheme, eligible employees including 2012 2012 Executive Directors and members of the Management Board Number of ordinary shares 12,123,853 10,520,098 receive an award of shares in April of each year in which the Market value of ordinary shares 370.4m 328.3m Scheme operates in respect of performance in the previous Percentage of the issued share financial year.
An award of 2,553 will be made to Executive capital of the Company 0.59 0.51 Directors and Management Board members on 2 April 2013 in respect of the year ended 31 December 2012.
The performance conditions are aligned to those set for the IEIS in respect of the BATGET currently waives dividends on the ordinary shares held same performance period.
The plan shares are held in a UK-based by it.
BATGET waived payment of the final dividend for 2011 of trust for a minimum period of three years and during that time the 10.3 million in May 2012 and the interim dividend for 2012 of trust will exercise its voting rights as directed by the plans 4.6 million in September 2012. participants.
The maximum individual award under the Share While shares are held by BATGET, the trustee does not exercise Reward Scheme is 3,000. any voting rights.
However, as soon as shares held in BATGET are transferred out to share scheme participants, the participants may Options and awards outstanding exercise the voting rights attaching to those shares.
To satisfy the future exercise of awards or options under the Details of the Companys material share-based payment Groups employee share schemes, ordinary shares are acquired in arrangements, reflecting both equity share-based and cash-settled the market by the Groups employee share ownership trusts or the share-based arrangements, are set out in note 27 on the accounts.
During the year, new ordinary shares were issued by the Shareholding guidelines Company in relation to the Sharesave Scheme and to certain The Remuneration Committees guidelines require Executive participants in the Share Option Scheme resident outside the UK.
Directors to hold shares in the Company equal to the value of a Under the Sharesave Scheme, a total of 806,406 options over percentage of salary as set out on page 80 and exclude shares ordinary shares in the Company were outstanding at 31 earned but not yet vested under Company share incentive plans.
The options outstanding under the Sharesave Management Board members are also required to hold shares in Scheme are exercisable until end October 2017 at option prices the Company equal to the value of 100% of their salary.
guidelines are a practical way in which executives are encouraged to build up a high level of personal shareholding to ensure The British American Tobacco Group alignment of interest with shareholders.
Employee Trust BATGET BATGET is used to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards of ordinary shares made under the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme, the 2007 LTIP and the predecessor Long-Term Incentive Plan, the 1998 LTIP as well as the exercise of options under the Share British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 79 Corporate Governance Remuneration report continued Executive Directors shareholding guidelines Value of eligible Number of eligible ordinary shares held at Actual percentage Required percentage ordinary shares held at 31 December of base salary at of base salary 31 December 2012 31 December Executive Director 2012 2012 Nicandro Durante Chief Executive 300 150,713 4,703,753 448 Ben Stevens Finance Director and Chief Information Officer 200 57,977 1,809,492 231 John Daly Chief Operating Officer 200 48,306 1,507,630 218 Note: The closing mid-market price of ordinary shares in British American Tobacco p. l. c. on 31 December 2012 was 3,121.00p Transitional provisions are in place for those Executive Directors rules in the Pension Fund permit a member to draw the accrued and Management Board members who do not meet the retirement pension within five years of Fund normal retirement requirements of the shareholding guidelines upon appointment.
age without actuarial reduction, subject to the employing In such cases, individuals may, generally, only sell a maximum companys agreement.
Alternatively, an Executive Director may of up to 50% of any shares vesting after tax under Company choose to leave and take a pension at any time on or after his or share plans until the threshold under the shareholding guidelines her 50th birthday without the employing companys agreement, has been met.
subject to a reduction as determined by the Pension Fund trustee in conjunction with the Pension Fund actuary.
Accrual rates differ The interests of the Directors of the Company in the ordinary according to individual circumstances but do not exceed 1 40th shares of the Company are shown in Table 6 on page 92. of pensionable salary for each year of pensionable service.
The Pension Fund, which closed its defined benefit section to new Executive Directors pension benefits members with effect from 1 April 2005, has historically provided varying accrual rates for different levels of management reflecting Purpose provision of competitive post-retirement benefits the then current external market practice.
The Pension Fund has attract and retain key management talent approximately 800 active defined benefit members, 4% of which Delivery British American Tobacco UK Pension Fund and accrue at 1 40th of annual base salary consistent with that Company supplementary pension provided for the relevant Executive Directors: 13% of defined arrangements benefit members accrue at 1 48th with the remainder accruing relevant overseas arrangements at 1 60th of annual base salary.
The practice of increasing accrual rates as individuals progress through the organisation was monthly quarterly pension payment discontinued with effect from 1 July 2009.
Policy pension accrual does not exceed 1 40th of annual base salary Pensionable pay covers base salary only and therefore bonus awards and the value of benefits in kind are not pensionable.
Fund normal pensionable age of 60 maximum pension payable will not exceed The Pension Fund includes provision for spouses benefits on two-thirds of base salary averaged over the death in service or after retirement.
In the event of death in preceding 12 months at age 60 service, a spouses pension equal to half of the members UK Pension Fund retains a scheme-specific cap prospective pension at normal retirement age would be payable.
A spouses pension payable in the event of death after retirement excess benefits over the scheme-specific cap is equal to half of the members full pension, irrespective of any and the statutory annual allowance effective decision to exchange part of the benefit for a lump sum.
from the commencement of the pension input period from 1 October 2010 continue to be accrued within an unfunded unapproved British American Tobacco UK Pension Fund retirement benefit scheme where possible John Daly and Ben Stevens John Daly and Ben Stevens each joined the Pension Fund after 1989.
As a result, prior to 6 April 2006, these individuals were British American Tobacco UK Pension Fund subject to the HMRC cap on pensionable earnings notionally Executive Directors with the exception of Nicandro Durante are, 137,400 for the tax year 2012 13.
In addition, each has an like other UK employees, eligible for membership of the British unfunded pension promise from the Company in respect of American Tobacco UK Pension Fund Pension Fund.
earnings above the cap on an equivalent basis to the benefits The Pension Fund, for members who joined before 1 April 2005, is provided by the Pension Fund.
This is provided through a non-contributory defined benefit scheme.
The early retirement membership of an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit 80 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance scheme UURBS.
Further to the changes to the applicable tax 2 Effective from 1 March 2006 being the date of his regulations, the pension accrual in the Pension Fund for John Daly appointment as a member of the Management Board an has been restricted to the statutory annual allowance of 50,000 accrual of 0.65% for each year of service the UK Accrual Rate with the balance of approximately 4,960 being provided through on a basic sterling salary comparable to that of a General the UURBS.
Ben Stevens has reached the lifetime allowance of Manager of Souza Cruz SA: 706,850 per annum with effect 1.5m and has therefore ceased accrual in the Pension Fund from 1 April 2012.
At retirement the pension will be based on a with all future benefits being provided through membership 12 months average and will be provided through the UURBS.
3 With effect from 1 January 2011 being the date of his During the year, there has been no change to the overall pension appointment as Chief Executive, Nicandro Durante entitlement of either Director.
commenced an accrual of 2.5% for each year of service on a basic salary in excess of that stated in 2 above.
At retirement These commitments are included in note 12 on the accounts.
the pension is based on a 12 months average and will be Members of the Pension Fund are entitled to receive increases in provided through the UURBS.
their pensions once in payment in line with price inflation as measured by the Retail Prices Index up to 6% per annum.
Following legislative changes to the applicable UK tax relief regulations in respect of members of overseas pension arrangements, Nicandro Durante decided, in the circumstances, to commence P J Carroll Directors Plan John Daly the receipt of his benefits from the FASC in Brazil with effect from John Daly was formerly a member of the P J Carroll Directors 1 April 2012.
The FASC pension benefits amount to approximately Plan in Ireland.
He is also entitled to a deferred benefit currently 410,000 per annum after adjusting for currency exchange amounting to 108,382 per annum, payable from the age of 60. reflecting Nicandro Durantes 31 years service at Souza Cruz.
This benefit is scheduled to increase each year between January 2012 and December 2015 by the lower of 4% or the Irish Consumer The decision to commence the receipt of the FASC pension Price Index.
The increase amount is confirmed each year by the benefits terminated the contractual rights that Nicandro Durante Minister of Social Protection in Ireland and for 2012 is based on had in respect of his former employment with Souza Cruz.
At the average inflation which was assumed to be 1.70%.
date of termination of the Souza Cruz contract, he received a single payment, long-service award of 106,918 in accordance with the terms of that agreement.
Reference to the long-service Fundao Albino Souza Cruz FASC and award is also made in the section on Executive Directors contracts.
UURBS Nicandro Durante Souza Cruz SA is a Brazilian registered company in which the Further, the Remuneration Committee ruled that any resulting tax Group has a 75% interest.
Its shares are listed on the Sao Paulo charge for the period from 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2012 would be tax equalised by way of a non-recurring payment to Nicandro stock exchange and the remuneration, reward and pensions policies and practices of Souza Cruz reflect those of the Brazilian Durante: such amount to be determined following the corporate market.
confirmation of how the relevant tax regulations apply.
No further compensation will be made or element of remuneration adjusted At the beginning of 2012, Nicandro Durantes pension in lieu of further pension accrual in the FASC.
entitlements were as follows: 1 Since December 1981, membership of the FASC in Brazil.
This is a non-contributory defined benefit scheme and includes a spouses death in service benefit equal to 37.5% of the members prospective pension at normal retirement age.
Accrual rates do not exceed 1.85% of basic salary excluding bonus averaged over the 12 months to normal retirement age, for each year of pensionable service.
Nicandro Durantes Brazilian pensionable salary was reviewed by the Company annually with reference to the salary of that of a General Manager of Souza Cruz SA and adjusted annually by the same percentage as that applied to pensioners in receipt of benefits from the FASC.
Benefits from the FASC remained subject to the rules of that scheme.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 81 Corporate Governance Remuneration report continued Executive Directors pension entitlements audited Transfer value Total Gross Increase of net Transfer accrued increase decrease in increase Transfer value value of Total change Total accrued pension at decrease accrued decrease in of accrued accrued in transfer Normal pension at 31 Dec in accrued pension net accrual over pension at pension at value during retirement 31 Dec 2011 2012 pension of inflation period 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 period Fund Scheme age 3 3 Fundao 60 431,602 409,674 21,928 41,659 669,527 6,393,456 6,584,068 190,612 Nicandro Durante Albino Souza Cruz 6 FASC Brazil UK: UURBS 60 33,654 47,980 14,326 13,283 327,174 848,279 1,181,844 333,565 465,256 457,654 7,602 28,376 342,353 7,241,735 7,765,912 524,177 Total UK: Pension 60 231,047 260,758 29,711 22,549 523,665 5,532,318 6,055,703 523,385 Ben Stevens Fund and UURBS 3 3 P J Carroll 60 89,775 89,403 372 1,349,816 1,552,437 202,621 John Daly Ireland UK: Pension 60 119,167 141,667 22,500 18,806 469,430 3,042,458 3,536,278 493,820 Fund and UURBS 208,942 231,070 22,128 18,806 469,430 4,392,274 5,088,715 696,441 Total Notes: 1 The amount of total accrued pension is the pension that would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year, excluding any increase granted under statute before retirement.
2 The value of net increase in accrued pension represents the incremental value to the Executive Director of his service during the year, calculated on the assumption that service is terminated at the year-end.
3 Nicandro Durantes and John Dalys FASC and P J Carroll pensions are denominated in Brazilian real and euros respectively, and therefore the gross change in 1 accrued benefit and 2 transfer value includes the following amounts relating to currency exchange: Nicandro Durante 1 50,738 decrease and 2 751,591 decrease: and John Daly 1 2,600 decrease and 2 39,085 decrease.
4 The transfer value basis used for valuing benefits accrued in the UURBS is consistent with that used by the Trustee of the Pension Fund for the ongoing funding of the Pension Fund.
The transfer value basis used for valuing benefits accrued in both the FASC and P J Carroll schemes are consistent with relevant local practice in Brazil and Ireland.
This is a change in approach and has resulted in the 2011 transfer values being restated, which more accurately reflects the level of assets required by the Group to fund the relevant pension entitlements 2011 previously reported total transfer values were: Nicandro Durante 11,727,318: and John Daly 5,334,521.
The transfer value basis reflects local market practice and conditions and is sensitive to local mortality assumptions, discount rates, inflation and the scheme pension increase policy.
Transfer values do not represent sums payable to individual Executive Directors and, therefore, cannot be added meaningfully to annual remuneration.
5 The UK Pension Fund is non-contributory.
Voluntary contributions paid by Executive Directors and resulting benefits are not shown.
No excess retirement benefits have been paid to or are receivable by any Executive Director or past Executive Director.
6 At the date of termination of the contractual rights that Nicandro Durante had in respect of his former employment with Souza Cruz SA and the commencement of the receipt of the FASC pension benefits 2 April 2012, he received a single payment, long-service award of 106,918 in accordance with the terms of that agreement.
82 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance resigns from the Company to work for a competitor or to Executive Directors service contracts undertake a similar type of role to that carried out for the Company indicative of discretion not to release awards : Duration of contracts is dismissed for any reason such as misconduct or poor Each Executive Director has a one-year rolling contract, executed performance indicative of discretion not to release awards : at the time of his original appointment.
The contract may be resigns intending to cease working altogether or to pursue varied from time to time to take account of changes in terms and a completely different career indicative of discretion to conditions as well as to incorporate best practice.
Each contract release awards : includes a provision for a termination or compensation payment in lieu of notice.
delays their resignation from the Company to accommodate the Companys plans or the demands of their current workload The Remuneration Committee, however, has discretion to agree indicative of discretion to release awards : longer contracts in the event that an Executive Director is recruited externally or from overseas, when it may then be departs with the agreement of the Company indicative appropriate to offer a contract with an initial period of longer of discretion to release awards.
than one year, reducing to a one-year rolling contract after the In exercising its discretion, the Remuneration Committee will also expiry of the initial period.
All of the current Executive Directors take into account the individuals overall performance as well as have a one-year rolling contract only.
their contribution to the Company during their period of employment.
The Committee will not exercise its powers of Compensation payments general discretion in such a way that it will discriminate against any An Executive Directors compensation payment, in lieu of notice, individual on the grounds of that persons age, sex, sexual would comprise: 1 12 months salary at his then current base pay: orientation, disability, race or religious belief.
and 2 a cash payment in respect of other benefits under the contract such as medical insurance, or the Company may at its option continue Pension entitlements those benefits for a 12-month period.
Pension entitlements are dealt with in accordance with the terms and conditions of the applicable pension scheme and do not form The compensation payment is payable where the requisite 12 months part of the contractual compensation payment.
notice is not given to the Executive Director or when he terminates by giving 12 months notice and the Company does not wish him to serve his notice.
If a period of notice is served, the compensation payment is Nicandro Durante former Brazilian reduced pro rata.
In the event that a contract is terminated for cause contractual rights such as gross misconduct, the Company may terminate the contract Nicandro Durante has a service contract with the Company in the with immediate effect and no compensation would be payable.
In addition, as a result of the application of local labour laws in Brazil, during the year Nicandro Durante Awards under share incentive retained certain termination or compensation rights in respect schemes status of leavers of his former employment with Souza Cruz SA which had commenced in December 1981 until 2 April 2012.
Awards made under the Companys share incentive schemes will vest or transfer to an individual upon termination of their contract These additional rights with Souza Cruz ended at the time when in accordance with the specific circumstances set out in the rules Nicandro Durante drew his pension from the FASC as outlined of the schemes.
Such circumstances will include: above.
At the date of the termination of the Souza Cruz contract, Nicandro Durante received a single payment, long-service award death of 106,918 in accordance with the terms of that agreement.
No injury disability other compensation was payable in accordance with the ill-health termination of the Souza Cruz rights.
redundancy within the meaning of the applicable legislation.
In all other circumstances, the awards will lapse immediately unless the Remuneration Committee, in its absolute discretion, decides otherwise.
The Committee exercises its discretion by reference to guidelines that set out a list of possible relevant factors to assist in the determination of a leavers status.
These include whether an individual: British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 83 Corporate Governance Remuneration report continued Executive Directors service contracts Length of service as an Executive Director Percentage vote Execution date of Date first appointed Date of last as at 2013 AGM in favour of re-election Executive Director current service contract to the Board reappointment at AGM Years Months at 2012 AGM Nicandro Durante 10 December 2010 1 January 2008 26 April 2012 5.4 99.98 Ben Stevens 26 March 2008 3 March 2008 26 April 2012 5.2 99.98 John Daly 24 October 2010 1 September 2010 26 April 2012 2.8 99.98 Inc. a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of the Company, as its Executive Directors external nominee to sit on the board of RAI.
In accordance with present appointments arrangements, the Group received a fee of US$271,980 from RAI 2011: US$237,000 in respect of John Dalys service in that role for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Policy Executive Directors and members of the Management Board Non-Executive Directors are able to accept one substantive external Board appointment provided that permission is respectively sought from the Board or terms of appointment Chairman.
Any fees from such appointments are retained by the The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the individual in recognition of the increased level of personal Company but instead have letters of appointment.
with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Non-Executive Directors have terms of appointment of one year Current appointments only which are considered for renewal around the time of the None of the Executive Directors or Management Board members Companys AGM.
Each Director is then subject to election or currently holds such an appointment.
re-election by shareholders every year.
Reynolds American Inc Length of service John Daly, an Executive Director of the Company, has been a The date of appointment, the most recent reappointment and non-executive director of Reynolds American Inc RAI since 1 length of service for each Non-Executive Director, together with December 2010.
RAI is an associate undertaking of the Company the percentage of votes in favour of re-election at the 2012 AGM, and John Daly was designated by Brown & Williamson Holdings, are shown in the following table.
Length of service as a Non-Executive Director Percentage vote Date first appointed Date of last as at 2013 AGM in favour of re-election Non-Executive Directors length of service to the Board reappointment at AGM Years Months at 2012 AGM Karen fide Segundo 1 October 2007 26 April 2012 5.7 99.98 Ann Godbehere 3 October 2011 26 April 2012 1.7 99.74 Robert Lerwill 1 January 2005 26 April 2012 8.4 99.83 Christine Morin-Postel 1 October 2007 26 April 2012 5.7 99.91 Gerry Murphy 13 March 2009 26 April 2012 4.1 99.94 Kieran Poynter 1 July 2010 26 April 2012 2.10 99.94 Anthony Ruys 1 March 2006 26 April 2012 7.2 99.83 Sir Nicholas Scheele 28 February 2005 26 April 2012 8.2 99.74 Richard Tubb 28 January 2013 0.3 84 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Termination Aggregate limit On termination, at any time, a Non-Executive Director is entitled Non-Executive Directors fees including those of the Chairman to any accrued but unpaid Directors fees but not to any are determined within the overall aggregate annual limit of other compensation.
2,500,000 authorised by shareholders with reference to the Companys Articles of Association.
The Board as a whole considers the policy and structure for the Non-Executive Directors fees on Non-Executive Directors the recommendation of the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The remuneration policy Non-Executive Directors do not participate in discussions on their The current fees structure specific levels of remuneration.
for the Non-Executive Directors is: Travel and related expenses With effect from 1 Jan 2013 Jan-Dec 2012 Non-Executive Directors are generally reimbursed for the cost of travel and related expenses incurred by them as Directors of the Basic fee 90,000 90,000 Company in respect of attendance at Board, Committee and Supplements: General meetings.
In the instances where the cost of reimbursement Senior Independent Director 30,000 28,000 of such expenses are classified as a benefit to the Director, it is also the practice of the Company to pay the tax which may be Audit Committee Chairman 30,000 28,000 due on any such benefits.
With effect from 1 February 2013, the CSR Committee Chairman 25,000 23,000 Non-Executive Directors were eligible for general practitioner Nominations Committee Chairman walk-in medical services.
They receive no other pay or benefits.
Remuneration Committee Chairman 30,000 28,000 It is the policy of the Board that the spouses of the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors may, from time to time, Committee Membership Fees not Chairmen : accompany the Directors to overseas or UK based Board meetings and otherwise at hospitality functions during the year.
Spouses did Audit Committee 6,250 5,000 not attend any such Board meetings in 2012.
CSR Committee 6,250 5,000 Nominations Committee Anthony Ruys ITC Limited Remuneration Committee 6,250 5,000 Anthony Ruys has been a Non-Executive Director of ITC Limited ITC an associate undertaking of the Company since 20 January Annual review 2009.
During the year ended 31 December 2012, Anthony Ruys received INR 740,000 8,309 in fees from ITC 2011: INR 720,000 The fees for the Non-Executive Directors are considered annually 8,724.
This amount is the subject of an annual supplement and are determined in light of market best practice and with from a Group company so that he receives a total annual fee for reference to the time commitment and responsibilities associated this appointment of 75,000.
Anthony Ruys also has an interest in with the roles.
The most recent review in October 2012, using options over shares in ITC see Table 8 on page 97. external benchmarking and a related comparator group, concluded that: 1 the basic fee for Non-Executive Directors was above the upper quartile and therefore should remain unchanged: 2 the supplements paid to the Senior Independent Director and the Committee Chairmen had fallen behind the median: and 3 the fees paid for committee memberships were well below the median.
The fees were revised as shown above with effect from 1 January 2013.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 85 Corporate Governance Remuneration report continued Remuneration Chairmans terms of appointment The current terms of Richard Burrows appointment provide for: and remuneration 1 an annual fee of 600,000: 2 the use of a driver: 3 private The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the medical insurance and personal accident insurance benefits: and terms of engagement and fees payable to the Chairman.
This 4 the reimbursement by the Company of the cost of return airline process takes into account the breadth of that role coupled with its tickets to London from his home in Ireland in connection with his associated levels of commitment and expertise.
With effect from 1 February 2013, Richard Burrows was eligible for general practitioner walk-in medical Terms of appointment services.
In common with the Non-Executive Directors, Richard Burrows does not participate in the British American Tobacco share Richard Burrows has been a Director of the Company since schemes, bonus schemes or incentive plans and is not a member 1 September 2009 and has been Chairman of the Company from of any Group pension plan.
In common with the terms of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors, Richard Burrows has a term of In February 2013, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the fees appointment of one year only which is considered for renewal for the Chairman against practice in the FTSE 30: around the time of the Companys AGM each year unless the appointment is terminated earlier by: 1 the Company giving three Fees from Fees at 1 April 2013 1 April 2012 months notice or a discretionary compensation payment in lieu of notice: or 2 by him giving one months written notice, with the Richard Burrows Chairman 620,000 600,000 Company having discretion to make a compensation payment in lieu of such notice.
The compensation payment is limited to any fees which are payable for such part of the relevant notice period as the Copies of service contracts and Board does not require him as Chairman to perform his duties.
terms of appointment Copies of the Executive Directors service contracts and the details of the terms of appointment of each Non-Executive Director and the Chairman are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Companys registered office and will also be available for inspection at the AGM on 25 April 2013.
86 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Appendices to the remuneration report Table 1: Aggregate emoluments audited The emoluments of the Directors of British American Tobacco p. l. c. were as follows: 2012 201 1 Salaries and fees 3,971,718 3,732,000 Benefits: cash and non-cash 526,716 868,923 Performance-related pay cash bonus 2,019,841 2,260,000 deferred share bonus 2,019,841 2,260,000 DSBS and LTIP dividend equivalents 916,114 578,618 Share Reward Scheme 8,916 7,767 Former Directors 1,051,593 Total 9,463,146 10,758,901 The figures shown for benefits in Tables 1 to 5 are shown as gross amounts as it is the normal practice of the Company to pay the tax which may be due on any benefits, with the exception of the car or car allowance.
The gross amounts of the travel costs and the tax that is due thereon is 52,720 2011: 102,706.
2 Benefits for these Non-Executive Directors include those expenses incurred in connection with accompanied attendance at business functions.
3 Anthony Ruys: additional payments for services as a non-executive director of ITC Limited, the Groups associate undertaking in India.
2012 2011 INR INR Directors fees ITC Limited 740,000 8,309 720,000 8,724 Fees supplement British American Tobacco Group 66,691 66,276 Total 740,000 75,000 720,000 75,000 4 Fees were payable to members of the Remuneration Committee from 1 January 2012.
No fees are paid in respect of membership of the Nominations Committee.
88 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Table 4: Summary of individual emoluments of Executive Directors audited PerformanceTotal Salary Benefits related pay 2012 201 1 Nicandro Durante 1,037,500 191,332 2,157,172 3,386,004 3,598,525 Ben Stevens 774,000 114,378 1,543,704 2,432,082 2,392,736 John Daly 680,000 115,697 1,263,836 2,059,533 2,219,802 Former Executive Director Paul Adams until 28 February 2011 1,017,673 Total 2,491,500 421,407 4,964,712 7,877,619 9,228,736 Note: 1 The Executive Directors emoluments shown above do not include, in respect of the LTIP awards made in March 2010 and which vest on 25 March 2013: 1 the illustrative values of those awards as at 26 February 2013 reference should be made to the illustrative values shown for each Executive Director in Table 7 : and 2 the values of the LTIP dividend equivalent payments to be made in respect of those awards which are: Nicandro Durante 225,576: Ben Stevens 211,256: and John Daly 121,738.
Table 5: Analysis of remuneration of Executive Directors audited Nicandro Durante 2012 201 1 Salary 1,037,500 Salary 1,000,000 1 Benefits: cash 16,245 Benefits: cash 15,840 1 Benefits: non-cash 175,087 Benefits: non-cash 323,023 Annual cash bonus 893,025 Annual cash bonus 1,000,000 Value of deferred share bonus 893,025 Value of deferred share bonus 1,000,000 2 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS 44,974 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS 34,136 2 Cash dividend equivalent LTIP 323,176 Cash dividend equivalent LTIP 222,937 Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received during the year 2,972 during the year 2,589 Total see Table 4 3,386,004 Total see Table 4 3,598,525 Notes: 1 Benefits comprise: 2012 201 1 Cash: car allowance 16,245 15,840 Non-cash: life and health insurance 15,776 14,139 tax advice 6,370 49,340 the use of a company driver 64,932 63,633 travel and related costs in respect of relocation from Brazil 13,952 142,686 employee welfare and medical payments made by Souza Cruz S. A. in respect of subsisting employment rights in Brazil 52,359 36,202 maintenance of home security systems in the UK and Brazil 8,781 10,013 other expenses incurred in connection with individual and or accompanied attendance at certain business functions and or corporate events 12,917 7,010 Total 191,332 338,863 2 Cash dividend equivalent payments: 1 DSBS these are cash sums equivalent to the dividend on the after-tax position on all unvested ordinary shares comprised in the share awards held by participants in the DSBS at each dividend record date: and 2 LTIP this is a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that an LTIP participant would have received as a shareholder on the actual number of shares that vest under an LTIP award.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 89 Corporate Governance Appendices to the remuneration report continued Table 5: Analysis of remuneration of Executive Directors audited continued Ben Stevens 2012 201 1 Salary 774,000 Salary 742,500 1 Benefits: cash 13,920 Benefits: cash 13,560 1 Benefits: non-cash 100,458 Benefits: non-cash 93,929 Annual cash bonus 598,621 Annual cash bonus 675,000 Value of deferred share bonus 598,621 Value of deferred share bonus 675,000 2 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS 41,858 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS 32,245 2 Cash dividend equivalent LTIP 301,632 Cash dividend equivalent LTIP 157,913 Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received during the year 2,972 during the year 2,589 Total see Table 4 2,432,082 Total see Table 4 2,392,736 Notes: 1 Benefits comprise: 2012 201 1 Cash: car allowance 13,920 13,560 Non-cash: life and health insurance 9,367 7,030 the use of a company driver 77,718 75,838 maintenance of home security systems 3,872 2,761 other expenses incurred in connection with individual and or accompanied attendance at certain business functions and or corporate events 9,501 8,300 Total 114,378 107,489 2 Cash dividend equivalent payments: 1 DSBS these are cash sums equivalent to the dividend on the after-tax position on all unvested ordinary shares comprised in the share awards held by participants in the DSBS at each dividend record date: and 2 LTIP this is a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that an LTIP participant would have received as a shareholder on the actual number of shares that vest under an LTIP award.
90 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance John Daly 2012 201 1 Salary 680,000 Salary 650,000 1 Benefits: cash 13,920 Benefits: cash 147,272 1 Benefits: non-cash 101,777 Benefits: non-cash 118,554 Annual cash bonus 528,195 Annual cash bonus 585,000 Value of deferred share bonus 528,195 Value of deferred share bonus 585,000 2 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS 27,805 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS 19,919 2 Cash dividend equivalent LTIP 176,669 Cash dividend equivalent LTIP 111,468 Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received during the year 2,972 during the year 2,589 Total see Table 4 2,059,533 Total see Table 4 2,219,802 Notes: 1 Benefits comprise: 2012 201 1 Cash: car allowance 13,920 13,560 contractual payment in respect of relocation from Hong Kong 133,712 Non-cash: life and health insurance 9,283 6,191 tax advice 4,050 3,954 the use of a company driver 75,418 74,181 installation 2011 and maintenance of home security systems 7,349 28,976 other expenses incurred in connection with individual and or accompanied attendance at certain business functions and or corporate events 5,677 5,252 Total 115,697 265,826 2 Cash dividend equivalent payments: 1 DSBS these are cash sums equivalent to the dividend on the after-tax position on all unvested ordinary shares comprised in the share awards held by participants in the DSBS at each dividend record date: and 2 LTIP this is a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that an LTIP participant would have received as a shareholder on the actual number of shares that vest under an LTIP award.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 91 Corporate Governance Appendices to the remuneration report continued Table 6: Directors interests in British American Tobacco p. l. c. ordinary shares of 25p Acquired Changes from Disposed At 31 Dec 31 Dec At 27 Feb At 1 Jan 2012 During 2012 2012 2012 2013 Chairman Richard Burrows 10,000 10,000 10,000 Executive Directors 1 Nicandro Durante 150,261 1,661 151,922 8 151,930 Ben Stevens 58,059 833 58,892 58,892 John Daly 36,543 12,052 48,595 48,595 Non-Executive Directors Karen fide Segundo 2,000 2,000 2,000 Ann Godbehere 477 477 477 Robert Lerwill 3,000 3,000 3,000 Christine Morin-Postel 4,700 1,700 3,000 3,000 Gerry Murphy 3,000 3,000 3,000 Kieran Poynter 5,000 5,000 5,000 Anthony Ruys 3,000 3,000 3,000 Sir Nicholas Scheele 5,000 5,000 5,000 Total 280,563 13,323 293,886 8 293,894 Notes: 1 The changes in Directors interests since 31 December 2012 relate to the purchase by Nicandro Durante of a total of eight shares pursuant to the Companys Partnership Share Scheme.
2 Based on the performance for 2012, the Executive Directors will each be awarded a number of ordinary shares to the value of 2,553 pursuant to an award of shares under the Share Reward Scheme on 2 April 2013.
3 In addition to the shares shown above, the Executive Directors have further interests in the ordinary shares in the Company set out in Table 7 below and which are held in trust pursuant to the DSBS.
The value of these shares has been included as Directors emoluments in the prior year.
Details of the DSBS are given in the Remuneration Report.
4 On 31 December 2012, the Groups employee share ownership trust referred to in the Remuneration Report held a total of 10,520,098 ordinary shares in the Company.
All participating employees, including the Executive Directors, are deemed to have a beneficial interest in these shares.
92 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Table 7: Executive Directors: 1 Long-Term Incentive Plan 2007 awards: 2 Deferred Share Bonus Scheme share interests: and 3 share options ordinary shares of 25p in British American Tobacco p. l. c. audited Nicandro Durante Shares Long-Term Incentive Plan Closing Illustrative mid-market At 1 Jan Awarded Vested Lapsed At 31 Dec Value value price at 2012 in 2012 in 2012 in 2012 2012 vested in vesting Performance Award award date Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of 2012 Vesting 2013 period date p shares shares shares shares shares date 2009 2011 27-Mar-09 1,534.0 94,996 94,996 3,039,872 27-Mar-12 2 2010 2012 25-Mar-10 2,278.0 69,751 69,751 25-Mar-13 2,078,968 2011 2013 13-May-11 2,704.0 147,329 147,329 13-May-14 2012 2014 28-Mar-12 3,180.5 124,688 124,688 28-Mar-15 Total 312,076 124,688 94,996 341,768 3,039,872 2,078,968 Shares Deferred Share Bonus Scheme Closing Released mid-market At 1 Jan Awarded on 27 Mar price At 31 Dec 2012 in 2012 2012 at release 201 2 Holding Award Number of Number of Number of date Number period date shares shares shares p of shares 2009 2011 27-Mar-09 29,164 29,164 3,200.0 2010 2012 25-Mar-10 17,005 17,005 2011 2013 25-Mar-11 22,056 22,056 2012 2014 28-Mar-12 31,172 31,172 Total 68,225 31,172 29,164 70,233 Options Sharesave Scheme At 1 Jan Granted Exercised on At 31 Dec 2012 in 2012 9 Jan 2012 Market 2012 Dates Latest Number of Grant price Number Number of price Gain Number of from which expiry shares Grant date p of shares shares p shares exercisable date 1,421 24-Nov-06 1,152.0 1,421 3,010.0 26,402 Jan-12 Jun-12 28-Mar-12 2,536.0 591 591 May-17 Oct-17 Total 1,421 591 1,421 26,402 591 The Long-Term Incentive Plan Notes, the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme Notes and the Sharesave Scheme Notes are set out at the end of the Directors shares and options disclosures for Table 7.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 93 Corporate Governance Appendices to the remuneration report continued Table 7: Executive Directors: 1 Long-Term Incentive Plan 2007 awards: 2 Deferred Share Bonus Scheme share interests: and 3 share options ordinary shares of 25p in British American Tobacco p. l. c. audited continued Ben Stevens Shares Long-Term Incentive Plan Closing Illustrative mid-market At 1 Jan Awarded Vested Lapsed At 31 Dec Value value price at 2012 in 2012 in 2012 in 2012 2012 vested in vesting Performance Award award date Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of 2012 Vesting 2013 period date p shares shares shares shares shares date 2009 2011 27-Mar-09 1,534.0 88,663 88,663 2,837,216 27-Mar-12 2 2010 2012 25-Mar-10 2,278.0 65,323 65,323 25-Mar-13 1,946,981 2011 2013 13-May-11 2,704.0 79,558 79,558 13-May-14 2012 2014 28-Mar-12 3,180.5 70,137 70,137 28-Mar-15 Total 233,544 70,137 88,663 215,018 2,837,216 1,946,981 Shares Deferred Share Bonus Scheme Closing Released mid-market At 1 Jan Awarded on 27 Mar price At 31 Dec 2012 in 2012 2012 at release 201 2 Holding Award Number of Number of Number of date Number period date shares shares shares p of shares 2009 2011 27-Mar-09 26,114 26,114 3,200.0 2010 2012 25-Mar-10 15,925 15,925 2011 2013 25-Mar-11 23,702 23,702 2012 2014 28-Mar-12 21,041 21,041 Total 65,741 21,041 26,114 60,668 Options Sharesave Scheme At 1 Jan Granted in Exercised At 31 Dec 2012 2012 in 2012 2012 Date from Latest Number Grant price Number of Number of Number of which expiry of shares Grant date p shares shares shares exercisable date 1,000 25-Nov-09 1,555.0 1,000 Jan-15 Jun-15 The Long-Term Incentive Plan Notes, the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme Notes and the Sharesave Scheme Notes are set out at the end of the Directors shares and options disclosures for Table 7.
94 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance John Daly Shares Long-Term Incentive Plan Closing Illustrative mid-market At 1 Jan Awarded Vested Lapsed At 31 Dec Value value price at 2012 in 2012 in 2012 in 2012 2012 vested in vesting Performance Award award date Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of 2012 Vesting 2013 period date p shares shares shares shares shares date 2009 2011 27-Mar-09 1,534.0 51,931 51,931 1,661,792 27-Mar-12 2 2010 2012 25-Mar-10 2,278.0 37,643 37,643 25-Mar-13 1,121,971 2011 2013 13-May-11 2,704.0 71,823 71,823 13-May-14 2012 2014 28-Mar-12 3,180.5 60,785 60,785 28-Mar-15 Total 161,397 60,785 51,931 170,251 1,661,792 1,121,971 Shares Deferred Share Bonus Scheme Closing Released mid-market At 1 Jan Awarded on 27 Mar price At 31 Dec 2012 in 2012 2012 at release 201 2 Holding Award Number of Number of Number of date Number period date shares shares shares p of shares 2009 2011 27-Mar-09 15,151 15,151 3,200.0 2010 2012 25-Mar-10 8,601 8,601 2011 2013 25-Mar-11 17,833 17,833 2012 2014 28-Mar-12 18,235 18,235 Total 41,585 18,235 15,151 44,669 Options Sharesave Scheme At 1 Jan Granted in Exercised At 31 Dec 2012 2012 in 2012 2012 Date from Latest Number of Grant price Number of Number of Number of which expiry shares Grant date p shares shares shares exercisable date 457 25-Mar-11 1,974.0 457 May-14 Oct-14 The Long-Term Incentive Plan Notes, the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme Notes and the Sharesave Scheme Notes are set out at the end of the Directors shares and options disclosures for Table 7.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 95 Corporate Governance Appendices to the remuneration report continued Table 7: Executive Directors: 1 Long-Term Incentive Plan 2007 awards: 2 Deferred Share Bonus Scheme share interests: and 3 share options ordinary shares of 25p in British American Tobacco p. l. c. audited continued Long-Term Incentive Plan notes 1 The closing mid-market price of ordinary shares in British American Tobacco p. l. c. on the vesting date for the March 2009 award 27 March 2012 was 3,200p.
2 The March 2010 award will vest on 25 March 2013 at 87.1% in the manner described in the remuneration report.
For illustrative purposes only, the share price on 26 February 2013, being the latest practicable date prior to publication, of 3,422p has been used to value the vesting awards.
3 The performance conditions applicable to the LTIP awards relate to an apportionment between measures relating to TSR and EPS-based criteria with reference to a three-year performance period.
TSR combines both the share price and dividend performance of the Company as set against two comparator groups: a the FTSE 100 Index at the beginning of the performance period: and b a peer group of FMCG companies.
A total of 50% of the total award is based upon each of two separate measures 25% for each measure.
50% of an award is based on EPS growth relative to inflation.
Further details of the performance conditions are set out in the long-term incentives section of the remuneration report.
4 There have been no variations in the terms and conditions of the LTIP interests during the year.
5 The awards made in May 2011 and March 2012 are due to vest in May 2014 and March 2015 respectively.
At 31 December 2012, the performance percentage reflecting performance to date, was 75.4% for the May 2011 award and 24.2% for the March 2012 award.
Deferred Share Bonus Scheme notes 1 Each Executive Director has an interest in the ordinary shares of the Company, as shown in the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme tables, which are held in trust pursuant to the British American Tobacco Deferred Share Bonus Scheme.
2 The cost of these shares has been included as Directors emoluments in the prior year.
Details of the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme are given in the remuneration report.
Sharesave Scheme notes 1 Sharesave Scheme: in respect of the Executive Directors, no options lapsed during the year ended 31 December 2012.
There have been no variations in the terms and conditions of these interests in share options during the year.
Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme are exercisable in conjunction with a three year or five year savings contract up to a monthly limit of 250.
Options are normally granted at a discount of 20% to the market price at the time of the invitation, as permitted under the rules of the Sharesave Scheme.
2 The aggregate gain on the exercise of Sharesave Scheme options was 26,402 2011: nil.
3 The closing mid-market price of ordinary shares in British American Tobacco p. l. c. on 31 December 2012 was 3,121.0p and the range during the year was 2,897.5p to 3,488.0p.
The market price on 31 December 2012 exceeded the grant price of all the options detailed in the Options tables for the Executive Directors.
96 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Table 8: Non-Executive Directors share options Ordinary Shares of INR1 each in ITC Limited audited Anthony Ruys ITC Employee Stock Option Scheme At 1 Jan 2012 Number Number of of shares Granted in shares over Exercised in At 31 Dec Number of At 1 Jan 2012 over which 2012 which 2012 2012 options that Dates from Latest Number of options Grant Grant price Number of options Number of Number of may be which expiry 2 2 options held Date per option options granted options options exercised exercisable date 20,000 200,000 23-Jul-09 Rs.
Anthony Ruys, a Non-Executive Director of the Company, is also a non-executive director of ITC.
Anthony Ruys has been granted options over shares in ITC under the ITC Employee Stock Option Scheme 2006 which provides for the grant of options to its non-executive directors as permitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India Employee Stock Option Scheme and Employee Stock Purchase Scheme Guidelines 1999 the Scheme.
2 Each option entitles its holder to apply for and to be allotted 10 ordinary shares in ITC of INR1 each upon the payment of the grant price during the appropriate exercise period.
An exercise period begins at the date of vesting of an option and expires at the end of five years from that vesting date.
The vesting period for the conversion of an option under the Scheme is as follows: a 30% vests 12 months from date of grant: b 30% vests 24 months from date of grant: and c 40% vests 36 months from the date of grant.
3 The number of options granted in 2011 and applicable number of shares over which they have been granted was incorrectly stated in the 2011 Annual Report and has therefore been restated in the current year.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 97 Corporate Governance Appendices to the remuneration report continued Status of remuneration report This report has been prepared in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 5 and Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
The report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and describes how the Board has applied the Principles of Good Governance relating to Directors remuneration as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code referred to in the corporate governance statement.
As required by the Companies Act 2006, a resolution to approve the Directors remuneration report the Report will be proposed at the AGM of the Company on 25 April 2013, at which the financial statements will be presented for approval.
The vote will have advisory status, will be in respect of the remuneration policy and overall remuneration packages and will not be specific to individual levels of remuneration.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the auditors to report to the Companys shareholders on the audited information within the Report and to state whether, in their opinion, those parts of the Report have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The report of the independent auditors, in respect of the Company, addresses those aspects of this Report, and those which have been subject to audit have been clearly marked: Executive Directors pension entitlements, Table 1, Table 2, Table 3, Table 4, Table 5, Table 7 and Table 8.
On behalf of the Board Dr Gerry Murphy Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 27 February 2013 98 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012
