Remuneration report Statement from the chairman of the board The board remuneration committee believes that This remuneration report was prepared by the remuneration committee and approved by the a properly board.
The board believes that a properly constituted and effective remuneration committee is key to maintaining the link between pay and performance.
The committee consists entirely constituted of non-executive directors, and executive directors are not involved in determining their and effective own remuneration packages.
This report describes our remuneration policy and directors remuneration for the 2012 financial year.
remuneration committee is key Introduction to maintaining the The formal purpose of this statement is to introduce the remuneration report component of link between pay the annual report to shareholders.
However, given the attention paid to remuneration during the last year by governments, regulators and social commentators the audience is wider than and performance.
the current shareholders and consequently I will address a number of the key issues currently under discussion by these other stakeholders.
This audience can be broadly divided into those who look at Investec as a single group such as shareholders, and those who look at individual components be they defined by geography or technical speciality, such as individual regulators or host societies and their governments.
The directors of Investec Limited and Investec plc together Investec have committed to their respective authorities and to shareholders to run the dual listed group as a single economic entity.
The increasing intervention of regulators, particularly those in the UK, means that the operating structure of the group, from a remuneration perspective, is developing into a federal model rather than a single integrated unit.
Among our lines of business, it is our specialist banking businesses which face the largest changes in their regulatory environment.
The introduction by the Financial Services Authority FSA of its Code on Remuneration including the concept of FSA Code staff in the UK creates a difference in the way we treat key staff in the UK bank from our Asset Management or Wealth & Investment businesses.
This provides some challenges in a culture that promotes equal treatment across our businesses.
It is clear that in the future our staff operating within our specialist banking businesses will be subject to a different remuneration regime from other parts of our business.
Within the clamour that surrounds pay for those who work in financial services across the world there are many voices.
The demands we face from different stakeholders are not always capable of being met in full, not least because they may not be consistent with one another.
Nonetheless, we are listening to this wide range of stakeholders and are trying to amend our approaches and systems to meet the changing and substantially more complex environment.
Issues raised by stakeholders The overall level of pay, notably for executives, and the mix between fixed and variable costs The most general issue that has been raised by stakeholders is the overall level of executive pay and more recently where last years pay levels have been compared to the current years performance.
Investec is conscious of the public debate concerning the relatively high rewards for executives, and in particular bankers, and has participated in discussions with interested parties such as HM Treasury and the High Pay Commission in the UK.
The board of our South African bank had a full session with the South African Reserve Bank SARB on remuneration.
The remuneration committee has also begun to participate in the Australian remuneration operational and regulatory review process.
At present, as a participant in a competitive market for staff in each of the markets in which we operate, our published policy is to continue to pay at overall levels competitive with our peers as described in our annual reports in previous years.
We believe that our ability to diverge significantly from market practice is limited by the exposure to losing staff to rivals who will pay more.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Remuneration report 235 Remuneration report continued We continue to believe that base salaries should be restricted to retain control of fixed costs.
We are however, faced with a market where many competitors have responded to criticism of We continue to the multiple between fixed and variable pay by raising the former and thereby reducing the ratio by increasing their fixed costs.
We do not believe this to be in the interests of shareholders, recognise the and have not followed suit.
importance of Furthermore, we believe that the introduction of a cap on the multiple between fixed and sustainability and variable compensation is anti-competitive as it favours large established firms with high base continue to take pay and raises the cost of entry.
In both South Africa and the UK we believe that Investec has, and is, playing an important competitive role by offering a different business model to specific account longer established banks.
In order to compete we need to be able to be more flexible in the of corporate variations in the rewards we offer.
Our specialist banking businesses have not predominantly performance in participated in principal proprietary risk taking businesses nor have our individual employees been remunerated on formulae that encourage the sort of risk taking the cap is designed to this area when prevent.
assessing the We recognise that some commentators focus particularly on the highest paid individuals variable pay of and have published figures with respect to the ABI Principles of Remuneration, revised in the executive September 2011.
We believe that there is too much attention paid to this celebrity pay and insufficient debate on the appropriate division of the returns between capital, labour and directors.
Similarly, whilst we can calculate the multiple between the rewards of the average employee and the highest paid, we believe that the resulting figure can be significantly distorted, for example, by whether or not a firm outsources the bulk of its lower paid support functions.
An organisation that uses computers will look less dispersed than one that uses manual accounting and correspondence systems.
For many years we have included pension contributions in our pay decisions for executive staff when some of our competitors have separated them.
Risk management and risk-adjusted compensation awards Various stakeholders are concerned that risk management should be expressly considered when looking at rewards for bankers.
Our existing economic value added EVA system, which we have run for over ten years, includes a risk-based component at the heart of our compensation system.
Our rewards are distributed from pools of realised earnings generated in excess of targeted thresholds which reflect usage of risk-adjusted capital.
This model, which has remained largely unchanged for several years, ensures that risk and capital management form the basis for key processes at both a group and transaction level thus ensuring that the basis for the division of rewards between all stakeholders is transparent and consistent over time.
We continue to avoid contractual commitments to specific individual bonuses preferring to pay from our formula-driven EVA pools on the basis of discretionary judgements at an individual level.
These individual judgements take account of the individuals record of compliance with the groups risk management policies.
The remuneration of the various risk, compliance and internal audit staff of the group, as well as the group executive, are not linked to specific performance based on a formula, but on the overall performance of the group and the individuals taking into consideration financial performance, compliance with culture and values and numerous other qualitative factors set out later in this report.
We recognise the principle of clawback for Code staff and have considered the financial results and governance reviews and regulatory actions to assess whether any such action is appropriate this year.
We have concluded that no such action is required.
Sustainability aspects We continue to recognise the importance of sustainability and continue to take specific account of corporate performance in this area when assessing the variable pay of the executive directors.
Thus, for example we note our Level 3 rating in terms of the South African Codes on Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment and the Special Commendation Platinum Award for 2011 in the City of Londons Clean City Awards.
Across the group, we encourage staff ownership of shares.
Our employee share schemes excluding schemes applicable to the executive directors are not generally subject to performance conditions as their purpose is to provide all staff with some alignment with the interests of our owners.
As a relatively young company, we have many senior executives with 236 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Remuneration report significant shareholdings reflecting their long association with our growing business.
We are comfortable with the introduction of regulations requiring variable remuneration to be paid in shares and have applied deferral principles for the past three years.
However, to a significant degree we do not see this as introducing a new relationship between management and shareholders but an extension of an approach that has long been at the heart of our business.
The proportion of shares held by our employees is approximately 10%.
We continue to avoid long-term contracts and termination payments.
Specifically we have changed the contractual arrangements for one individual to which certain shareholders objected last year to bring it in line with our general policy.
Among the firms that we acquired during the year there are contractual arrangements which fall below best practice and are outside our preferred conditions of employment.
We will look to phase these out as soon as practicable given our responsibility to honour existing contracts.
The distribution model Investec has acknowledged for many years the importance of the appropriate division of the commercial fruits of our work between our owners, our workforce and the societies in which we operate, the latter through corporate and personal taxation.
We would welcome the more widespread adoption of this distribution model as recommended by the UK High Pay Commission.
Our approach is to pay individuals from pools of realised income generated by the different business units and to monitor the overall share our staff receive in the economic return of the company.
Our effective corporate tax rate has averaged 21% over the past ten years, while our gross staff compensation ratio i. e. comprising total fixed costs, total variable remuneration paid including the total deferred portion and share-based costs as spread over the period of the share incentive option remains within its long-term range of 35% to 43%.
Personal tax deduction, payroll taxes and national insurance mean that a substantial portion of the gross compensation is ultimately paid to the tax authorities.
Our payments to shareholders remain within our stated dividend policies, and we have retained a portion of earnings each year to build up capital resources.
Our EVA model allows us to compare individual business units with their competitors with the result that our overall gross staff compensation ratio will reflect changes in the proportions contributed by different businesses.
Thus in a year when the asset management and wealth and investment businesses perform relatively well, one would expect the overall compensation ratio to rise because of the higher proportion of earnings paid to staff in a business which uses low amounts of capital.
In summary we estimate our total economic return has been divided between the main stakeholders as follows: Governments through corporate, personal and other taxation at source: 25% Employees through total compensation net of taxation at source: 48% Owners through dividends before taxation at source and retention in the business: 27%.
Our value added statement is provided on page 18.
The year under review Key points to note for the period under review include: Recurring revenue as a percentage of total revenue amounts to 67.7% 2011: 62.3% Core capital and liquidity ratios remain sound and the group has reported attributable earnings of 257.6 million 2011: 327.9 million.
Further information on our risk management indicators, policies and procedures and the groups performance can be found on pages 39 to 54 and 91 to 95 The total staff compensation to operating income ratio is 43.0% 2011:40.7%, with the following percentages within our three core business units: Asset Management: 45.9% 2011: 45.2% Wealth & Investment: 57.2% 2011: 53.1% Specialist Banking: 40.2% 2011: 38.3%.
36 million of the current years variable remuneration for the specialist banking businesses has been paid in the form of share awards and deferred representing 26% of the remuneration expense for the year Non-executive directors will receive a modest increase in their fees in the forthcoming year, roughly in line with inflation Our total shareholder return was negative 16.5% for Investec plc in Pounds Sterling and negative 6.8% for Investec Limited in Rands.
This compares to a return of negative 8.5% for the FTSE 350 General Finance Index.
Since listing on the London Stock Exchange in 2002, Investec plc has outperformed the FTSE 350 General Finance Index see graph on page 253 Executive directors hold 1.2% and 2.7% of the issued share capital of Investec plc and Investec Limited respectively.
Non-executive directors hold 0.6% and 0.1% of the issued share capital of Investec plc and Investec Limited respectively see table on page 256 Investec plc issued 1 065 000 ordinary shares and Investec Limited issued no ordinary shares to the staff share schemes during the year.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Remuneration report 237 Remuneration report continued Our underlying remuneration philosophy and processes as a group remains as in prior years: however, we have introduced additional process to reflect the requirements of different regulators on different subsidiaries.
This year in addition to our existing programme of shareholder engagement we have held direct meetings with a number of shareholders and their representatives and one of our joint chairmen and the chair of the remuneration committee have presented the action taken as a result of the feedback around our 2011 annual general meeting and explained the increased involvement of our regulators in remuneration since then.
We also canvassed opinion on the appropriate performance measures to use for executive directors in future.
On this we have noted significant disagreement among our stakeholders.
For example, some regulators and shareholders are very critical of ROE measures whilst others believe they should be paramount.
Similarly, there was no consistent view as to the appropriate peer group against which to compare our executives.
Below the top management it is much easier to identify competitors and other comparators.
Our conclusion was that no single measure or benchmark would satisfy all our stakeholders.
Accordingly, we propose to retain our flexibility to use a range of measures and benchmarks but will be explicit and transparent in respect of each incentive award as to what measures have been chosen and the reasons for this choice.
In each case our intention will be to align the interests of executive management with our strategic goals.
Some measures will be used to ensure reward follows delivery of returns to shareholders.
Others will meet regulatory requirements to ensure the appropriate relationship between risk and reward.
Finally, there will be some that seek directly to align the executives with shareholders through ownership of shares.
I would like to thank our shareholders for the open and frank nature of these conversations and for the various suggestions that were made.
I regret that the complexity of the issues coupled with the repeated call for simplicity means that we cannot give everyone exactly what they want.
The proposals herein reflect our best efforts to respond to the underlying drivers to enhance shareholder value and to ensure executive reward is fully aligned with shareholder value, whilst complying with local regulatory requirements and being a positive force within the societies in which we operate.
Concluding remarks The remuneration committee will continue to ensure that reward packages remain appropriately competitive, provide an incentive for performance, and take due regard of our culture, values, philosophies, business strategy, risk management and capital management frameworks.
At present the outcome of the Vickers Independent Commission on Banking and the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills discussions on executive pay in the UK, although imminent, is unknown.
We have reflected on these issues and their potential for impacting the way we measure performance, and considered the feedback received from our recent discussions with shareholders.
We recognise that in order to give proper attention to these matters and reach a satisfactory and sustainable conclusion we need more time for discussion and accordingly we will not be presenting specific proposals for change at the 2012 annual general meeting.
We acknowledge and value the leadership shown by three of our executive directors in asking us not to consider performance bonuses for them in respect of the 2012 financial year.
The committee has decided to rather focus compensation for these individuals on the longer-term alignment with shareholders and in addition has not adjusted the fixed salary of Mr Koseff and Mr Kantor.
The board has reiterated its support for the overall strategy of the business and we believe that the executive directors should receive a long term incentive award this year to reflect the underlying progress of the group, whilst acknowledging that this is taking longer to implement than we had hoped due to the difficult economic conditions.
We plan to allot the executive directors shares under the existing share matching plan subject to confirmation with the UK regulator under their new rules concerning Code staff.
These conditions have proved testing in recent years with several awards lapsing as performance hurdles were not achieved.
The amount and terms of the new allocations will be announced before the end of June 2012.
The committee will keep the existing remuneration arrangements, as discussed in this report, under review during the 2013 financial year, particularly taking cognisance of any additional regulatory and market-driven remuneration reform proposals.
Where appropriate, we will continue to consult shareholders and shareholder bodies on any significant proposed changes in remuneration policy.
The committee unanimously recommends that you vote to approve this report at the 2012 annual general meeting.
Signed on behalf of the board George Alford Chairman Remuneration committee 13 June 2012 238 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Remuneration report Remuneration philosophy, principles and policies Remuneration philosophy Our philosophy, which remains unchanged from prior years, is to employ the highest calibre individuals, who are characterised by integrity, intellect and innovation and who adhere and subscribe to our culture, values and philosophies.
We strive to inspire entrepreneurship by providing a working environment that stimulates extraordinary performance, so that executive directors and employees may be positive contributors to our clients, their communities and the group.
We reward executive directors and employees for their contribution through: Payment of an industry competitive annual package base salary and benefits Variable performance reward linked to our EVA model as discussed on pages 241 to 246 Ownership in the form of share incentive scheme participation.
We consider the aggregate of the above as the overall remuneration package designed to attract, retain, incentivise and drive the behaviour of our employees over the short, medium and longer term in a risk conscious manner.
Overall rewards are considered as important as our core values of work content greater responsibility, variety of work and high level of challenge and work affiliation entrepreneurial feel to the company and unique culture in the attraction, retention and motivation of employees.
We have a strong entrepreneurial, merit and values-based culture, characterised by passion, energy and stamina.
The ability to live and perpetuate our values, culture and philosophies in the pursuit of excellence in a regulated industry and within an effective risk management environment is considered paramount in determining overall reward levels.
The type of people the organisation attracts, and the culture and environment within which they work, remain crucial in determining our success and long-term progress.
Our reward programmes are clear and transparent, designed and administered to align directors and employees interests with those of all stakeholders and ensure the groups short-, mediumand long-term success.
In summary, we recognise that banks have to divide the return from their enterprises between the suppliers of capital and labour and the societies in which they do business, the latter through taxation and corporate social responsibility activities.
Our global remuneration philosophy seeks to maintain an appropriate balance between the interests of these stakeholders, and is closely aligned to our core values and philosophies which include risk consciousness, meritocracy, material employee ownership and an unselfish contribution to colleagues, clients and society.
A value added statement is included on page 18.
Remuneration principles Our remuneration policy is consistent with the following overarching principles: Remuneration policies, procedures and practices collectively referred to as the remuneration policy are consistent with, and promote, sound and effective risk management, and do not encourage risk taking that exceeds the level of tolerated risk of the Investec group Our remuneration policy is in line with the business strategy, objectives, values and long-term interests of the Investec group The payment of variable remuneration does not limit the Investec groups ability to maintain or strengthen its capital base.
Other key principles of our remuneration policy for executive directors and employees, which were consistently applied during the financial year, are as follows: Total rewards comprise a fixed and variable component The fixed component of our rewards includes a base salary, pension and benefits and is set at median market levels to contain fixed cost elements Variable rewards a portion of which is deferred for senior employees, FSA Code staff and executive directors are largely EVA-based and underpinned by our risk appetite and capital utilisation as discussed on pages 170 to 174 Long-term share incentive participation ensures alignment with stakeholders Total compensation base salary, pension, benefits and incentives is targeted in normal market conditions to the relevant competitive market see below at upper quartile levels for superior performance Given our stance on the fixed cost component of remuneration see above, our commitment to inspiring an entrepreneurial culture, and our risk-adjusted return on capital approach to EVA, we do not apply an upper limit on variable rewards The fixed cost component of remuneration is, however, designed to be sufficient so that employees do not become dependent on their variable compensation as we are contractually and do not consider ourselves morally bound to award variable performance rewards In addition, we operate a fully flexible incentive policy and are not contractually bound to award variable rewards.
Investec has the ability to pay no performance bonuses should the performance of the group or individual employees require this.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Remuneration report 239 Remuneration report continued Remuneration policy In addition to enshrining the principles above, our remuneration policy includes the following elements: We do not pay remuneration through vehicles that facilitate avoidance of applicable laws and regulations Our policy is designed to avoid conflicts of interest between Investec and its clients.
Specific internal controls and processes are in place to prevent such conflicts of interest from occurring and posing a risk to the group on prudential grounds.
In addition, no individual is involved in the determination of his her own remuneration rewards Employees must undertake not to use any personal hedging strategies or remuneration or liability-related contracts of insurance to undermine the risk alignment effects embedded in their remuneration arrangements.
Group Compliance maintains arrangements designed to ensure that employees comply with this policy.
Remuneration and effective risk management Risk consciousness and management is embedded in our organisational culture from the initiation of transactional activity through to the monitoring of adherence to mandates and limits and throughout everything we do.
The board risk and capital committee sets the overall risk appetite for the Investec group and determines the categories of risk, the specific types of risks and the extent of such risks which the group should undertake, as well as overseeing the mitigation of risks and overall capital management and allocation process.
The capital committee is a sub-committee of the board risk and capital committee and provides detailed input into the groups identification, quantification and measurement of its capital requirements taking into account the capital requirements of the banking regulators.
It determines the amount of internal capital that the group should hold and its minimum liquidity requirements taking into account all the associated risks plus a buffer for any future or unidentified risks.
This measure of internal capital forms part of the basis for determining the variable remuneration pools of the various operating business units.
The executive risk review forum is responsible for approving limits and mandates, ensuring these are adhered to and that agreed recommendations to mitigate risk are implemented.
The various central, independent group credit and deal approval forums also provide a level of risk management by ensuring that risk appetite and various limits are being adhered to and that an appropriate interest rate and by implication, risk premium is built into every approved transaction.
The central credit, deal and risk forums are independent from the operating business units and, by their approval, in effect ensure that every transaction undertaken by the group results in a contribution to profit that has already been subject to some risk adjustment.
These independent committees approve all limits, exposures, credit and investment approvals, ensuring that risk is well managed on a central basis within the group.
Furthermore, both the risk and compliance functions are also embedded in the operating business units and are subject to oversight by the independent central risk and compliance functions.
An added control against conflicts of interest is the embedded collaborative committee-based approval culture of the Investec group, where most decisions are processed through multiple committees which mitigates the risk that conflicts of interest may influence the decision making process.
Determination of remuneration levels Qualitative and quantitative issues form an integral part of the determination of reward levels.
Factors considered include: The performance of the overall firm, the specific business unit and the individual employee The employees alignment and adherence to our culture and values Attitude displayed towards risk consciousness, risk management and regulatory compliance Specific input from risk and compliance functions regarding concerns about the behaviour of individual employees or the riskiness of business undertaken The level of cooperation and collaboration fostered: the ability to grow and develop markets and client relationships: the development of staff: and the possible replacement cost of such employees.
Reward levels are targeted to be commercially competitive, on the following basis: The most relevant competitive reference points for reward levels are based on the scope of responsibility and individual contributions made Appropriate benchmark, industry and comparable organisations remuneration practices are reviewed regularly For executive directors, the FTSE350 General Finance firms have provided the most appropriate benchmark to date 240 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Remuneration report For employees, combinations of firms from the JSE Financial 15 and the FTSE350 General Finance sector have offered the most appropriate benchmarks The committee also reviews on an individual basis data on other international banks with which we compete, including certain FTSE100 companies The committee recognises that we operate an international business and compete with both local and international competitors in each of our markets In order to avoid disproportionate packages across areas of the group and between executives, adjustments may be made at any extremes to ensure broad internal consistency.
Adjustments may also be made to the competitive positioning of pay components for individuals, in cases where a higher level of investment is needed in order to build or grow or sustain either a business unit or our capability in a geography.
Components of remuneration The reward package for executive directors and employees comprises: Fixed base salary and benefits Annual variable performance bonuses Long-term share incentive plans.
The elements of the reward package, as listed above, are discussed below and the components for each director are detailed in tables accompanying this report.
Fixed base salary and other benefits Salaries are reviewed annually and reflect the relative skills and experience of, and contribution made by, the individual.
It is the companys policy to seek to set base salaries including benefits at median market levels.
The Human Resources division provides guidelines to business units on recommended salary levels for all employees within the organisation to facilitate the review.
These guidelines include a strategic message on how to set salary levels that will aid Investec in meeting its objectives and corporate values and incorporate guidance on increasing levels to take account of the change in the cost of living over the year to ensure that salary levels always allow employees to afford a reasonable standard of living and do not encourage a reliance on variable remuneration.
Advisers are often engaged by either the Human Resources division or the business units to obtain general benchmark information or to benchmark specific positions to ensure that fixed pay levels are market-driven and competitive so that we attract the most skilled talent in the market.
Benefits are targeted at competitive levels and are delivered through flexible and tailored packages.
Benefits include pension schemes: life, disability and personal accident insurance: medical cover: and other benefits, as dictated by competitive local market practices.
Only salaries are pensionable, the annual bonuses paid are not.
Our disclosure of executive directors salaries on page 254 has been done on a gross basis i. e. inclusive of pension fund contributions from the company.
The remuneration committee retains its own advisers and obtains industry benchmarking and specific advice around salary and performance bonus levels in respect of the executive directors.
Annual variable performance bonus All employees are eligible to be considered for a discretionary annual performance bonus, subject inter alia to the factors set out above in the section dealing with the determination of remuneration levels.
Investec Asset Management and Investec Wealth & Investment are separate regulated entities and are classified differently to the Specialist Bank in terms of the FSA Remuneration Code.
As a result the structure of performance bonuses for these two divisions differs slightly from the rest of the group refer to pages 244 to 246.
Structure of variable performance bonuses for employees in the Specialist Bank Our EVA model: performance-linked and risk-adjusted remuneration Our business strategy and associated risk appetite, together with effective capital utilisation, underpin the EVA annual bonus allocation model.
Business units share in the annual bonus pool to the extent that they have generated a realised return on their allocated risk-adjusted capital base in excess of their target return on equity.
Many of the potential future risks that the firm may face are avoided through ensuring that the bonus pools are based on actual realised risk-adjusted profits.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Remuneration report 241 Remuneration report continued The bonus pools for non-operating business units central services and head office functions are generated by a levy payable by each operating business on its operating profit.
This bonus pool may, in some years, be supplemented by a discretionary allocation as determined by the chief executive officer and managing director, and agreed by the remuneration committee and the board.
Our EVA model has been consistently applied for a period in excess of 10 years and encompasses the following elements: Capital allocated is a function of both regulatory and internal capital requirements, the risk assumed within the business and our overall business strategy The group has always held capital in excess of minimum regulatory requirements, and this principle is perpetuated in our internal capital allocation process.
This process ensures that risk and capital discipline is embedded at the level of deal initiation and incorporates independent approval outside of the business unit of transactions by the various risk and credit committees.
A detailed explanation of our capital management and allocation process is provided on pages 170 to 174 Internal capital comprises the regulatory capital requirement taking into account a number of specified risks plus a capital buffer which caters, inter alia, for any unspecified or future risks not specifically identified in the capital planning process.
The Investec group then ensures that it actually holds capital in excess of this level of internal capital Internal capital is allocated to each business unit via a comprehensive analysis of the risks inherent within that business and an assessment of the costs of those risks Hurdle rates or targeted returns are determined for each business unit based on the weighted average cost of capital plus a buffer for trading businesses to take into account additional risks not identified in the capital allocation process applied to internal capital Targeted returns differ by business unit reflecting the competitive economics and shareholder expectation for the specific area of the business, and are set with reference to the degree of risk and the competitive benchmarks for each product line In essence varying levels of return are required for each business unit reflecting the state of market maturity, country of operation, risk, capital invested capital intensive businesses or expected expense base fee-based businesses Growth in profitability over time will result in an increasing incentive pool, as long as it is not achieved at the expense of capital efficiency Target returns must be reflective of the inherent risk assumed in the business.
Thus, an increase in absolute profitability does not automatically result in an increase in the annual bonus pool.
This approach allows us to embed risk and capital discipline in our business processes.
These targets are subject to annual review The groups credit and risk forums provide transaction approval independent of the business unit on a deal by deal basis adding a level of risk consciousness to the predetermined and risk-adjusted capital allocation and required hurdle rates and thus ensure that each transaction generates a return that is commensurate with its associated risk profile.
In terms of our EVA process, if business and individual performance goals are exceeded, the variable element of the total reward package is likely to be substantially higher than the relevant target market.
This ensures that overall reward levels are positioned at the upper quartile level for superior performance, in line with our overriding remuneration policy.
In circumstances where an operating business unit does not have an EVA pool e. g. when it incurs a loss or when it is a start-up, the chief executive officer and managing director would consider a discretionary allocation to allow for a modest bonus for those staff who were expected to contribute to the longer-term interests of that business unit or the group, despite the lack of EVA profits in the short term, e. g. control functions, support staff and key business staff.
It should be noted the salaries and proposed bonuses for employees responsible for risk, internal audit and compliance as well as the executive directors, are not based on a formulaic approach and are independent of any revenues or profits generated by the business units where they work.
The level of rewards for these employees are assessed against the overall financial performance of the group: objectives based on their function: and compliance with the various non-financial aspects referred to above.
Key elements of the bonus allocation process are set out below: A fixed predetermined percentage of any return in excess of the EVA hurdle accrues to the business units EVA pool A portion of the total EVA pool is allocated towards the bonus pool for central service and head office employees These bonus pools are reviewed regularly by the appropriate management and non-executive committees to ensure that awards are only paid when it is appropriate to do so, considering firm-wide performance against non-financial risk both current and future and compliance-based objectives and in order to ensure that the payment of such discretionary bonuses does not inhibit the groups ability to maintain raise its capital levels.
All users of capital operate within a strict philosophical framework that requires a balancing of risk and reward and that is designed to encourage behaviour in the interests of all stakeholders as opposed to just employees The EVA pools are calculated centrally by the groups finance function and subject to audit as part of the year-end audit process Once the annual audit of the EVA pools is complete, line managers in each business unit will make discretionary bonus recommendations for each team member taking into consideration qualitative and quantitative criteria as mentioned above 242 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Remuneration report Bonus recommendations are then subject to an extensive geographic review involving Human Resources, local management and local remuneration committees Thereafter, these recommendations are subject to a global review by executive management, before the DLC remuneration committee review and approval process.
The group remuneration committee specifically reviews and approves the individual remuneration packages of the executive directors, persons discharging managerial responsibilities, and FSA Code staff.
The committee also reviews the salaries and performance bonuses awarded to a number of other senior and higher paid employees across the group.
In addition, the committee specifically reviews and approves the salaries and performance bonuses awarded to each employee within the internal audit, compliance and risk functions, both in the business units and in the central functions, ensuring that such packages are competitive and are determined independently of the other business areas.
In making these decisions the committee relies on a combination of external advice and supporting information prepared internally by the group.
The risk adjustment framework All variable remuneration payable to our UK Specialist Banking staff is subject to the risk adjustment framework where performance is assessed at a group, business unit and individual level.
This framework seeks to balance both financial and non-financial measures of performance and risk adjustment to ensure that the appropriate factors are considered prior to making an award, and that the appropriate mix of cash and share-based awards are made.
In this way, we ensure that all variable remuneration is fully risk-adjusted.
The risk adjustment drivers are: Group level Financial measures of performance Group-wide risk adjusted EVA model Overall affordability.
Non-financial measures of performance Market context Specific input from the group risk and compliance functions.
Individual level Financial measures of performance Achievement of individual targets and objectives Scope of responsibility and individual contributions.
Non-financial measures of performance Alignment and adherence to our culture and values The level of cooperation and collaboration fostered Development of self and others Attitude displayed towards risk consciousness and effective risk management Adherence to internal controls procedures Compliance with the banks regulatory requirements and relevant policies and procedures, including treating customers fairly The ability to grow and develop markets and client relationships Multi-year contribution to performance and brand building Long-term sustained performance Specific input from the group risk and compliance functions Attitude and contribution to sustainability principles and initiatives.
Deferral of performance bonus awards non-UK FSA Code staff within the Specialist Bank All performance bonus awards exceeding a predetermined hurdle level are subject to 60% deferral in respect of that portion that exceeds the hurdle level.
The entire deferred amount is awarded in the form of forfeitable share awards vesting in three equal tranches at the end of 12 months, 24 months and 36 months.
Where shares are being awarded to employees as part of the deferral of performance bonus awards, these are referred to as EVA shares.
These awards are made in terms of our existing long-term incentive plans refer below.
The entire amount of the performance bonus that is not deferred is payable up front in cash.
Deferral of performance bonus awards UK FSA Code staff within the Specialist Bank Individual awards to FSA Code staff will be determined based on EVA pools in the same manner as is applicable to all staff as set out above, and subject to the risk adjustment framework and group remuneration governance processes also set out above Performance awards to directors of the UK Specialist Bank excluding executive directors who are employees of a separately regulated firm and all performance awards where total variable remuneration exceeds 500 000 are subject to 60% deferral Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Remuneration report 243 Remuneration report continued All other performance awards to FSA Code staff are subject to 40% deferral The 40% not deferred in the former instance or the 60% not deferred in the latter instance will be awarded as to 50% in cash and 50% in EVA forfeitable shares up-front EVA forfeitable shares The up-front EVA forfeitable shares will vest immediately but will only be released after a period of six months, which we consider to be an appropriate retention period Discretionary bonuses for FSA Code staff who are not exempted by the fide minimis rates are subject to 40% deferral 60% if total variable remuneration exceeds 500 000 after taking into account the value of LTIPs granted to each staff member in the applicable financial year and which are included in deferred variable remuneration.
The deferred portion of discretionary awards to FSA Code staff will, at the election of the staff member, be made either entirely in the form of EVA forfeitable shares, or 50% in EVA forfeitable shares and 50% in cash All deferrals in the form of EVA forfeitable shares being either 50% or 100% of such deferral vest in equal amounts at the end of 12 months, 24 months and 36 months and are then subject to an appropriate period of retention, being six months.
Other information on deferred awards and clawback provisions within the Specialist Bank FSA Code staff Employees who leave the employment of Investec prior to vesting of these deferred awards will lose their EVA forfeitable shares other than as a result of retirement, subject to the groups normal good leaver provisions and approval process in exceptional cases.
The deferred share awards are subject to clawback of unpaid EVA.
The assessment of whether any clawback should be made to an individuals unvested award will be undertaken within the following framework: Where there is reasonable evidence of employee misbehaviour Where the firm or operating business unit suffers a material downturn in its financial performance Where the firm or business unit suffers a material failure of risk management.
In these cases, management and the remuneration committee will take into account the following factors in determining the extent if any to which the quantum of deferred awards should be subject to clawback: The extent to which the individual had control over the outcome Failure of internal control systems The impact of the risk profile of the relevant member of the group or business unit Any violation of the groups culture and values The long-term impact of the outcome on the group or relevant business unit External factors including market conditions Any other relevant factors.
Specifically for EVA share awards, where profits used to determine the original EVA bonus are materially reduced after the bonus determination, the awards will be recalculated for such reduction and consideration given to clawback if any to the extent that the prior periods EVA pool is reduced and the extent to which it affected each employee.
EVA share awards for executive directors are not permitted under the rules of the current long-term incentive plan and thus any such award is made in the form of phantom share awards over Investec shares.
Structure of performance bonus awards for employees in Investec Asset Management Investec Asset Management IAM recognises Investecs obligation to ensure that all businesses within the group satisfy their obligations under the FSA Remuneration Code.
The IAM remuneration committee is responsible for considering, agreeing and overseeing all elements of remuneration and the overall remuneration philosophy and policy of IAM.
IAM operates the following performance bonus schemes which may result in annual payments to employees: Annual Discretionary Cash Bonus Scheme all employees of IAM are currently eligible to be considered for a cash bonus payment under this scheme Deferred Bonus Plan participation in this scheme is determined on an annual basis at the discretion of IAM based on the roles of individual employees.
244 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Remuneration report Annual Discretionary Cash Bonus Scheme ADCBS Awards under the ADCBS are payable entirely in cash.
The purpose of the cash bonus is to reward behaviour and effort against objectives and values, and retain key employees.
The cash bonus pool determination is based on the profitability of IAM only.
In principle, there would be no cash bonus payments should IAM be loss making although this would be reviewed where it was considered that bonus payments were necessary in order to retain staff and protect the business in the long term even if the business had been loss making in the short term.
The percentage of profit allocated to the variable compensation pool has been agreed at a fixed rate and approved by the DLC remuneration committee and IAM remuneration committee.
Management information is provided to the IAM remuneration committee to ensure that IAMs financial results are put into the context of the risk appetite of the business and the IAM remuneration committee is able to risk adjust the cash bonus pool should they believe this is required given the risk taken and the overall financial results.
The individual cash bonus awards are approved by the IAM remuneration committee and reviewed by the DLC remuneration committee annually.
Deferred Bonus Plan DBOP As noted above, participation in the DBOP is determined on an annual basis at the discretion of IAM based on the roles of individual employees.
The purpose of the DBOP is both to retain key employees and to provide better alignment of the interests with clients and to manage potential, currently unknown future risks.
The conditions for participation in the DBOP are approved by the IAM remuneration committee annually, based on the remuneration requirements in the year being considered.
This will take into consideration local market remuneration practices and relevant and required regulations.
The DBOP awards are made in the form of investments into various funds managed by IAM and with specific allocations for the portfolio managers into their own funds.
The deferral period is just over three years and awards are only paid out under specific listed conditions.
The award does not accrue to the employee until the end of the deferral period and as such both the asset and liability remain on the balance sheet of IAM until that time.
Employees forfeit their allocations if they resign or their employment terminates other than for redundancy, retirement, death or disability prior to the vesting date.
Payments can only be made to participants prior to a scheduled vesting date with the consent of the IAM executive committee and ultimately by the IAM remuneration committee.
IAMs governance processes, operating within the context of the broader Investec groups process, ensure robust oversight of reward and effective management of any potential conflicts of interest whilst reflecting the need to link remuneration decisions with IAMs risk appetite.
The head of the IAM risk committee assesses the risk appetite, risk tolerance level and risk management for IAM and feeds her views into the remuneration decision making process, including sending a risk report to the IAM remuneration committee for consideration when making remuneration decisions.
In addition, IAM Human Resources and Compliance are responsible for ensuring that the IAM remuneration committee takes into consideration financial and non-financial criteria, risk and compliance reports, and any other relevant information in making decisions around remuneration.
The primary determinant of the variable compensation pool available for distribution is IAMs own annual profit.
There is an annual budget against which the business is measured.
The variable compensation pool is allocated to business divisions and then to individuals based on divisional performance and the individuals performance.
This ensures that staff are rewarded appropriately for meeting their objectives and keeping within the values of the business.
The oversight of conflicts of interest and the link between risk and reward is achieved through a combination of effective remuneration components, designed to incorporate risk and of the dual operation of the DLC remuneration committee and IAM remuneration committee in ensuring appropriate and, where necessary, independent oversight of both remuneration policy and outcomes.
Structure of variable performance bonuses for employees in Investec Wealth & Investment other than in South Africa Investec Wealth & Investment IW&I recognises Investecs obligation to ensure that all businesses within the group satisfy their obligations under the FSA Remuneration Code.
IW&I recognises that the policy, procedures and practices it has adopted should not conflict with the groups obligations under the FSA Remuneration Code.
The IW&I remuneration committee is responsible for considering, agreeing and overseeing all elements of remuneration and the overall remuneration philosophy and policy of IW&I within the context of the Investec groups agreed remuneration philosophy and policy.
IW&I operates the following variable performance bonus schemes which may result in annual payments to employees: Discretionary Incentive Scheme relating to staff in client facing roles and administration staff who support them directly Discretionary Bonus Scheme relating to staff in non-client facing support functions Additional New Business Incentive Scheme relating to staff primarily in client facing roles who are direct generators of income.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Remuneration report 245 Remuneration report continued Awards under each of the three schemes above are payable entirely in cash and do not attract employer pension contributions.
In the case of the Discretionary Incentive Scheme and the Discretionary Bonus Scheme, the award may be paid directly to the individual subject to the deduction of PAYE and NIC or, at IW&Is discretion, as an additional pension contribution.
All employees are eligible to be considered for an annual discretionary award under one of the above schemes.
Awards relate to financial years ending 31 March each year.
An interim payment on account of the annual award is considered at the half-year stage.
Value adjustments that are considered appropriate as a result of an individuals level of non-financial performance being below that expected by the business are made entirely to the discretionary incentive scheme or discretionary bonus scheme award of the employee concerned.
Where an IW&I executive director undertakes a role that is primarily client facing in a specific business unit, that director may also be eligible to participate in the incentive schemes of the relevant business unit.
Such schemes comprise two elements: The first element is a bonus pool which is calculated based on a formula that is directly related to the profitability of the business unit.
The entire bonus pool, which is not subject to an upper limit, is distributed to the employees of the business unit on a discretionary basis.
A proportion of the annual discretionary bonus payable to such executive directors may be awarded as a pension contribution, at the discretion of the committee The second element rewards participating employees on an individual basis for new business that is gained and then retained for a period of three years following the end of the year in which the new business is gained.
The amount payable is based on a formula which is directly related to the income generated as a result of the new business and is not subject to an upper limit.
All awards under this scheme are cash awards.
This latter scheme represents a long-term incentive scheme in accordance with the regulations and amounts earned and paid under this scheme are separately disclosed in the financial statements of IW&I.
Share option and long-term share incentive plans for the Investec group We have a number of share option and long-term share incentive plans that are designed to link the interests of directors and employees with those of shareholders and long-term organisational interests, through performance and risk-based equity grants.
These share option and incentive plans are also used in appropriate circumstances as a retention mechanism for key talent.
Awards are made in the form of nil cost options other than for countries where the taxation of such awards is penal.
In these cases awards are made in the form of forfeitable shares, conditional awards or market strike options.
We follow a philosophy where all employees are eligible for LTIPs.
Awards are considered by the remuneration committee and made only in the 42-day period following the release of our interim or final financial results in accordance with the ABI guidelines.
These awards comprise three elements, namely: New starter awards are made based on a fide facto non-discretionary basis using an allocation table linked to salary levels General allocation awards are also fide facto non-discretionary awards of the same quantum as new starter awards and are made to employees who have not had any other share award in a three year period Top up awards are made at the discretion of line management primarily as a retention tool.
All proposed LTIP awards are recommended by business unit management, approved by the staff share executive committee and then the remuneration committee before being awarded.
Awards of Investec plc LTIPs are made to all employees of Investec plc and awards of Investec Limited LTIPs for employees of Investec Limited.
The value of the overall pool of LTIP awards will be reviewed by the remuneration committee in the context of business-wide factors, including: Group-wide risk-adjusted EVA Non-financial performance and risk factors, based on input from Group Risk Market context Overall affordability.
The remuneration committee may adjust the total pool of LTIP awards on this basis prior to award, leading to consequent alterations in individual award levels.
In this way, ex-ante risk-adjusted performance determines the overall LTIP pool outcome.
LTIP awards for non-FSA Code staff are subject to 75% vesting at the end of four years and the final 25% at the end of the fifth year, which we believe is appropriate for our business requirements.
LTIP awards to FSA Code staff are subject to 75% vesting at the end of three and a half years and the final 25% at the end of four and a half years, and are then subject to a six-month retention period.
The awards are forfeited on termination, but good leaver discretion is applied in exceptional circumstances.
Retention is addressed through the long-term nature of awards granted which provides an element of lock-in for employees throughout the vesting period and allows for multi-year contribution to performance and brand building.
246 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Remuneration report These are summarised later in this remuneration report and include: Our current long-term incentive plans Our current share option plans Several plans that are no longer used, or which were introduced prior to the implementation of the DLC structure.
Some of these plans still have outstanding awards.
Investec plc has four share plans detailed below that were introduced around the time of the implementation of our DLC structure and our listing on the London Stock Exchange that are due to expire in July 2012, namely: The Investec plc Share Option Plan 2002 The Investec plc Approved Share Option Plan 2002 The Investec plc Share Participation Plan 2002 SIP The Investec plc Sharesave Option Plan 2002.
These will be replaced in due course, subject to shareholder approval.
Summary of Investecs share option and long-term share incentive plans Total Options issued granted as at Date Maximum award Performance during the 31 March 1 2 3 4 5 6 Plan Eligibility implemented Option shares per individual conditions Vesting period year 2012 Long-term incentive plans Investec New and 16 Mar 2005 Investec plc Cumulative limit None Nil cost 8 499 340 Number: 1 Limited existing full-time of 2 500 000 options: 75% 41 506 731 Share employees across all end of year four Incentive Excluding option plans and 25% end of % of issued 7 plan employees in excluding EVA year five and for share nil cost SA, Botswana, awards FSA Code staff capital of options Namibia and In any financial 75% at the end company: EVA Mauritius year: 1 x of three and a 6.9% share Excluding remuneration half years and awards executive package 25% at the end directors of four and a half years plus a six-month retention EVA share awards: up to three years from date of award Investec New and 16 Mar 2005 Investec Cumulative limit None Nil cost 9 020 438 Number: Limited existing full-time Limited and of 2 500 000 options: 75% 42 423 893 Share employees in Investec plc across all end of year four Incentive SA, Botswana, option plans and 25% end % of issued 7 Plan Namibia and excluding EVA of year five share nil cost Mauritius awards EVA share capital of options Excluding In any financial awards: up to company: EVA executive year: 1 x two years from 4.9% share directors remuneration date of award awards package Investec Executive 14 Nov 2005 Matching A maximum Vesting scale over 75% end of year Nil Number: plc Share directors awards of of 750 000 the period based four and 25% end 3 150 000 Matching Investec investment on normalised EPS of year five Plan 2005 Limited and shares may growth in excess % of issued Investec plc be invested in of UK RPI, with share shares in the the plan each 0% vesting if EPS capital of ratio of 1:1 time the plan is growth is less than company: against shares operated 4% plus RPI p. a.
0.6% invested in plan and 100% vesting by the director if EPS growth is in excess of RPI plus 12% p. a. Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Remuneration report 247 Remuneration report continued Total Options issued granted as at Date Maximum award Performance during the 31 March 1 2 3 4 5 6 Plan Eligibility implemented Option shares per individual conditions Vesting period year 2012 Current share option plans Investec New and 28 Aug 2002 Investec plc Cumulative limit Growth in headline Tranches of 25% 277 650 Number: plc Share existing full-time of 2 500 000 EPS UK RPI plus each on the 511 557 Option Plan employees across all 3% compounded second, third, 2002 unExcluding option plans annually over the fourth and fifth % of issued approved employees in excluding EVA period of the grant anniversaries share plan SA, Botswana, awards capital of expires Namibia and In any financial company: August Mauritius year: 1 x 0.1% 2012 UK employees remuneration grants package exceeding 30 000 Directors and executives Share plans not currently in use Investec New and 28 Aug 2002 Investec plc Cumulative limit Growth in headline Tranches of Last grant Number: plc Share existing UK fullof 2 500 000 EPS UK RPI plus 50%, 25% and made on 288 042 Option time employees across all 3% compounded 25% at the third, 17 Jun % of issued Plan 2002 grants up to option plans annually over the fourth and fifth 2003 share approved the value of excluding EVA period of the grant anniversaries capital of plan 30 000 awards respectively company: expires Directors and In any financial 0% August executives year: 1 x 2012 remuneration package Investec plc New and 2 Jun 2008 Investec plc Cumulative limit None Variable with a None Number: Deferred existing full-time of 2 500 000 minimum non- 620 500 Bonus Plan employees across all dealing period of 2008 Excluding option plans one year % of issued employees in excluding EVA share SA, Botswana, awards capital of Namibia and In any financial company: Mauritius year: 1 x 0.1% remuneration package 1.
The limits for allocations to employees and executive management during a financial year may be exceeded if the directors determine that exceptional circumstances make it desirable that options should be granted in excess of that limit.
The Investec plc Share Option Plan 2002 unapproved plan is operated in jurisdictions where the application of the other schemes is less favourable to participants.
This scheme provides for performance conditions to be applied to awards, which are determined by the committee at the time the awards are made.
This note does not apply to the Share Matching Plan 2005 which has different performance conditions as approved by shareholders further information is available on our website.
This represents the number of awards made to all participants.
For further details, see the directors report on page 268.
More details on the directors shareholdings are also provided in tables accompanying this report.
Dilution limits: Investec is committed to following the Association of British Insurers ABI guidelines and accordingly, as from the date of the implementation of our DLC structure 29 July 2002, the maximum number of new shares which may be issued by the company under all of the share plans in respect of grants made after July 2002 may not exceed 10% of the issued share capital of the company over a rolling 10 year period.
We have, since our listing date, complied with both the 10% in 10 years guideline for discretionary and nondiscretionary awards in aggregate as well as the 5% in 10 years guideline for discretionary awards.
The committee regularly monitors the utilisation of dilution limits and available headroom to ensure that these guidelines are complied with.
The issued share capital of Investec plc and Investec Limited at 31 March 2012 was 598 million shares and 276 million shares respectively.
As announced on the stock exchange news services, 1 065 000 Investec plc and no Investec Limited shares were issued to the staff share schemes during the year.
The market price of an Investec plc share as at 31 March 2012 was 3.82 2011: 4.78, ranging from a low of 3.18 to a high of 5.22 during the financial year.
The market price of an Investec Limited share as at 31 March 2012 was R47.16 2011: R52.80, ranging from a low of R42.00 to a high of R57.36 during the financial year.
The rules of these long-term incentive plans do not allow awards to be made to executive directors.
248 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Remuneration report Other remuneration structures Guaranteed variable remuneration Guaranteed variable remuneration comprises all forms of remuneration whose value can be determined prior to award.
This includes, but is not limited to sign-on, buy-out and guarantee awards.
Guaranteed variable awards will not be awarded, paid or provided to any individual within the Investec plc group unless they are: Exceptional In the context of hiring new staff Limited to the first year of service.
The remuneration committee shall at least annually review guaranteed variable remuneration payments and the number of guarantees awarded to ensure that they are only granted in exceptional circumstances.
Retention awards Investec will only pay retention awards to serving staff in exceptional circumstances.
In all such cases, Human Resources shall review proposed payments to ensure that they are in line with this policy and any other relevant regulation.
Additionally for FSA Code staff, the remuneration committee shall review all proposed awards.
Circumstances where Investec plc will consider paying a retention award are in the case of a major restructuring of the company or any subsidiary or one of its business units for instance in the start-up of a new business line, or the closure of a business line, where the retention of individuals is essential to the completion of the task.
A valid business case for the retention of the individual must be presented in order for a retention award to be approved and the FSA should be notified prior to the retention award being made to FSA Code staff, and should consider seeking guidance on the appropriateness of retention awards for certain individuals.
Severance awards Severance payments by Investec plc or one of its subsidiary companies for the early termination of a contract are at executive managements absolute discretion and must reflect performance achieved over time and be designed in a way that does not reward failure.
Severance payments for FSA Code staff individuals shall be subject to prior approval by the DLC remuneration committee.
Discretionary extended pension benefits policy All proposed extended pension payments made to employees upon reaching retirement should be reviewed by the remuneration committee for alignment with appropriate laws, policy and regulation.
Non-executive directors remuneration The board agrees and determines the fees of non-executive directors and the fees are reviewed annually.
The boards policy is that fees should reflect individual responsibilities and membership of board committees.
The increase in non-executive directors fees for the forthcoming year reflects current market conditions with the focus on controlling fixed remuneration and additional time commitment required.
Their fee structure covers the dual roles that the directors perform for the UK listed Investec plc and the South African listed Investec Limited boards.
The fee structure for non-executive directors for the 2012 and 2013 financial years is shown below: As approved by the board for the Non-executive directors remuneration 2012 financial year 2013 financial year Chairmans total fee 400 000 per year 250 000 per year Basic non-executive director fee 62 000 per year 65 000 per year Senior independent director 5 000 per year 5 000 per year Chairman of the DLC audit committee 52 000 per year 55 000 per year Chairman of the DLC remuneration committee 35 000 per year 37 000 per year Member of the DLC audit committee 15 000 per year 16 000 per year Member of the DLC remuneration committee 13 500 per year 14 500 per year Member of DLC nominations and directors affairs committee 10 000 per year 10 500 per year Member of the board risk and capital committee 12 500 per year 13 000 per year Board member in attendance of the board risk and capital committee 10 000 per year 10 500 per year IBL board member in attendance of the board risk and capital committee R120 000 per year R125 000 per year Member of the Investec Bank plc board 11 000 per year 11 500 per year Member of the Investec Bank Limited board R240 000 per year R250 000 per year Member of the Investec Limited audit committee who is not a DLC audit committee member R115 000 per year R120 000 per year IBL board member in attendance of the DLC nominations and directors affairs committee R65 000 per year R68 000 per year Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Remuneration report 249 Remuneration report continued Fees are also payable for any additional time committed to the group including attendance at certain other meetings.
There is no requirement for non-executive directors to hold shares in the company.
The company has left this choice to the discretion of each non-executive director.
Directors remuneration alignment of interests with shareholders The graph below reflects the percent change in executive directors remuneration each year since our year ended 31 March 2003.
The movement in directors remuneration is mapped against the movement or percentage change in a number of key performance related variables.
Percentage change in executive directors remuneration vs other key performance related variables Percentage 100 96 91 91 80 77 58 60 50 48 48 43 54 41 40 40 31 41 34 18 20 21 19 20 20 26 16 15 Total executive directors 6 14 15 1 remuneration 0 -3 -7 Adjusted attributable -8 -17 earnings to shareholders -20 -21 Total shareholders equity -22 -40 Total shareholders -44 -46 return Investec plc in -58 Pounds Sterling -60 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 The table below reflects the compound annual growth rate CAGR in directors remuneration and a number of key performance-related variables since our year ended 31 March 2003 and our listing on the LSE.
CAGR since March March March 2012 2003 2003 Executive directors gross remuneration million 1.3 0.7 6.5% Executive directors annual bonus million 1.0 100.0% Executive directors total remuneration million 1.3 1.7 3.3% Non-executive directors total fees million 1.9 0.6 13.8% Adjusted attributable earnings to shareholders million 257.6 89.7 12.4% Adjusted EPS pence 31.8 19.2 5.8% Total shareholders equity million 4 013.0 706.0 21.3% Total shareholders return Investec plc in Pounds Sterling 468.0 100.0 18.7% Net tangible asset value per share pence 317.0 75.0 17.4% Information for S Koseff, B Kantor and GR Burger.
Governance section Compliance and governance statement The remuneration report complies with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010, section 420 of the UK Companies Act 2006, the UK Financial Services Authority listing rules, the FSA Remuneration Code, the South African King III Code of Corporate Practice and Conduct, the South African Companies Act 2008 and the JSE Limited listing requirements.
250 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Remuneration report Scope of our remuneration policy The Investec group aims to apply remuneration policies to executive directors and employees that are largely consistent group-wide, but recognises that certain parts of the group are governed by local regulations that may contain more onerous requirements in certain respects.
In those cases, the higher requirements are applied to that part of the group.
This will be applied to Investec plc and its subsidiary companies that are subject to the FSA Remuneration Code as a Tier 1 organisation as defined therein, and in particular in relation to FSA Code staff.
Additionally, where any aspect of our remuneration policy contravenes local laws or regulations, the local laws or regulations shall prevail.
We believe that our remuneration policy is consistent with and complies with the principles and rules of the FSA Remuneration Code in respect of Investec plc and its subsidiary companies.
We also believe that this policy is consistent with and complies with the substance of the Financial Stability Boards Principles for Sound Compensation Practices.
The following Investec plc group entities are separately regulated by the FSA and as such maintain their own remuneration policy separate from the Investec group policy and in line with such entitys own risk profile and business activities: Investec Asset Management Investec Wealth & Investment Investec Bank plc Hargreave Hale The Evolution Group plc.
Under the FSA Remuneration Code, Investec Bank plc is the only group entity which is classified as being tier 1.
It should be noted that our asset management and wealth management businesses have been classified as tier 4 entities under the proportionality rules of the FSA Remuneration Code.
Composition and role of the committee The four members are all independent non-executive directors and are free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The majority of the members are also members of the groups board risk and or capital committee and the audit committee as discussed on pages 199 to 202, thus bringing risk and control mechanisms into their deliberations.
Two of the members are relatively new to the board and to the committee.
Whilst George Alford has been a member of the board for over nine years it is our belief that he provides continuity to this committee and his past experience including relevant banking and regulatory experience is particularly relevant and helpful at this point in the remuneration cycle.
The committees principal responsibilities and objectives are to: Determine, develop and agree with the board, the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of executive directors and executive management comprising individuals discharging managerial responsibilities, who are the global heads of our core areas of activity and are members of our global operations forum Commission and consider the results of an annual central and internal review of policy implementation Ensure that qualified and experienced management and executives are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their contribution to the success of the group and alignment with the corporate objectives and business strategy Review and approve the design of, and determine targets and objectives for any performance-related pay schemes operated by the group and approve the aggregate annual payouts under such schemes Review and approve, within the terms of the agreed policy, the total individual remuneration packages of executive directors and executive management including, where appropriate, bonuses, incentive payments and share scheme awards Review and approve, within the terms of the agreed policy, the total individual remuneration packages of members of the internal audit, risk and compliance functions Oversee any major changes in our employee benefit structures Ensure that the comments, recommendations and rules within the UK and South Africa pertaining to remuneration are given due regard.
The committee is authorised by the board to seek any information it requires from any employee in order to perform its duties.
The committees terms of reference are subject to annual review and are available on our website.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Remuneration report 251 Remuneration report continued Meetings The committee met 12 times during the financial year.
An attendance schedule is provided Each executive on page 200.
The company secretary of Investec plc acts as secretary to the committee.
director is entitled Executive directors do not attend these meetings, unless required to do so by the chairman to receive a basic of the committee.
The chairman of the committee reports on the activities of the committee at each meeting of the full board.
salary and is also eligible for an Advisers to the committee annual bonus, Where appropriate, the committee has access to independent executive remuneration the amount of consultants.
The selection of the advisers is at the discretion of the committee chairman, and Investec funds any expenses relating to the appointment of external consultants.
which will be determined at During the financial year, the committee continued to use the services of its advisers, Hewitt New Bridge Street, which among other things specifically reviewed and provided information the discretion of on executive share incentive schemes: industry consultation papers, regulations and the remuneration developments with respect to remuneration practices and our alignment to them.
they continued to review and provide information on appropriate benchmark, industry and comparable organisations remuneration practices.
Their recommendations are important in the ongoing review of our remuneration practices.
Furthermore, we have used the services of Linklaters, who have advised this year mainly on a number of issues pertaining to our incentive plans and aspects of the implementation of the FSA Remuneration Code.
Linklaters is one of Investec plcs legal advisers.
Certain specialist divisions within the group, for example, Human Resources and the Staff Shares division, provide supporting information and documentation relating to matters that are presented to the committee.
This includes, for example, comparative data and motivations for proposed salary, bonus and share awards.
The variable remuneration pools are determined by our finance teams taking into account risk-adjusted capital requirements and after eliminating unrealised gains.
The employees within these specialist divisions, which provide support to the committee, are not board directors and are not appointed by the committee.
The committee, together with the board, attends a strategic off-site meeting each year at which senior executive employees provide information and presentations on the groups strategic direction, prospects, key focus areas and annual budget.
While executive directors have the right to address any meeting of the committee, they play no role in the determination of their remuneration package.
Furthermore, no employee participates in discussions or decisions of the committee relating to their own remuneration.
Service contracts and terms of employment Three out of our four executive directors namely S Koseff, B Kantor and GR Burger have indefinite contracts of employment, terminable by either party giving six months written notice to the other.
The contracts of employment do not contain provisions for compensation payable on early termination.
HJ du Toit has an indefinite contract of employment, terminable by either party giving three months written notice to the other.
The contract of employment does not contain provisions for compensation payable on early termination.
HJ du Toits employment contact has been amended during the course of the year to bring it in line with group policy.
Each executive director is entitled to receive a basic salary and is also eligible for an annual bonus, the amount of which will be determined at the discretion of the remuneration committee.
Furthermore, the executive directors may elect to sacrifice a portion of their annual salary to receive company benefits such as a travel allowance and medical aid.
The full costs of these benefits will be deducted from their annual salary.
Executive directors are permitted to accept outside appointments on external boards or committees so long as these are not deemed to interfere with the business of the company.
Any fees earned by executives in this regard are forfeited to Investec.
252 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Remuneration report Biographical details of the directors of the board These details can be found on pages 208 to 210.
Dates of appointment to the board The boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited are separate and subject to separate legal obligations for each company.
In terms of the DLC arrangements, they comprise the same persons who are authorised, as boards, to manage Investec as if it were a unified economic enterprise.
Details on the dates the directors were appointed to the board can be found on page 193.
Performance graph total shareholder return We have implemented a DLC structure, in terms of which we have primary listings in London and Johannesburg.
The listing on the London Stock Exchange LSE took place on 29 July 2002, although we have been listed in South Africa since 1986.
Schedule 8 of the UK Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Report Regulations 2008 requires this report to include a performance graph of Investec plcs total shareholder return TSR performance against that of a broad market index.
We found it difficult to locate an appropriate group of companies to benchmark ourselves against because of our specialist activities.
A number of companies within the FTSE 350 General Finance Index conduct similar activities to us, although they do not necessarily have the same geographical profile.
Nevertheless, to date this has been the most appropriate index against which to measure our performance on the LSE.
Towards the end of our 2010 financial year, Investec plc was included as a new entrant into the FTSE 100 Index.
Investec plc however, exited this index during December 2011 as it did not qualify for re-inclusion based on its market capitalisation at that date.
We have included the total shareholder return of that index for illustrative purposes.
The graph below shows the cumulative shareholder return for a holding of our shares in orange in Pounds Sterling on the LSE, compared with the average total shareholder return of other members of the FTSE 350 General Finance Index and the FTSE 100 Index.
It shows that, at 31 March 2012, a hypothetical 100 invested in Investec plc at the time of its listing on the LSE in July 2002 would have generated a total return of 468 compared with a return of 239 if invested in the FTSE 350 General Finance Index and a return of 220 if invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
Investec plc has therefore outperformed the FTSE 350 General Finance Index and the FTSE 100 Index over the period.
During the period from 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2012, the return to shareholders of Investec plc measured in Pounds Sterling and Investec Limited measured in Rands was negative 16.5% and negative 6.8%, respectively.
This compares to a negative 8.5% for the FTSE 350 General Finance Index and a return of 1.2% for the FTSE 100 Index.
The market price of our shares on the LSE was 3.82 as at 31 March 2012, ranging from a low of 3.18 to a high of 5.22 during the financial year.
Furthermore, the market price of our shares on the JSE Limited was R47.16 as at 31 March 2012, ranging from a low of R42.00 to a high of R57.36 during the financial year.
Gross remuneration comprises base salary and other benefits see points 2 and 3 below.
Gross remuneration of S Koseff and B Kantor has increased by 5.9% and HJ du Toit's gross remuneration increased by 2.0%.
The gross remuneration of GR Burger is determined in Rands and converted into Pounds Sterling.
In Rand terms GR Burgers gross remuneration increased by 6.0% from R3 350 000 in March 2011 to R3 550 000 in March 2012.
Gross remuneration increases for other employees across the group have generally been in the range of 5% to 10%.
The executive directors receive other benefits which may include pension schemes: life, disability and personal accident insurance: and medical cover, on similar terms to other senior executives.
S Koseff, B Kantor and GR Burger waived their bonuses in respect of the year ended 31 March 2012.
HJ du Toits bonus was based on the results of Investec Asset Management, with 80.5% deferred and payable in April 2013, and the balance deferred and payable during 2014 2015.
A breakdown of the components of the reward packages for the executive directors in the 2011 financial year is as follows: Annual Annual bonus bonus Gross cash deferred Total Total other Salary benefits remuneration component component remuneration Name Executive directors S Koseff chief executive officer 309075 115925 425000 1290000 1710000 3425000 B Kantor managing director 391436 33564 425000 1290000 1710000 3425000 GR Burger group risk and finance director 346945 30782 377727 1191756 1586021 3155504 HJ du Toit 424401 8600 433001 2870000 1230000 4533001 Total Pounds Sterling 1471857 188871 1660728 6641756 6236021 14538505 6.
The following appointments were made in the previous financial year: B Fried: 1 April 2010 PKO Crosthwaite: 18 June 2010 OC Dickson: 31 March 2011.
HS Herman retired on 17 November 2011.
GMT Howe resigned on 31 December 2010.
Sir Chips Keswick retired on 13 August 2010.
Retirement benefits None of the executive directors belong to a defined benefit pension scheme and all are members of one of our defined contribution schemes.
The total contribution to these schemes, payable by the company, included in the total salary of the director or included in benefits paid as set out in the tables above, is as follows: 2012 2011 Name Executive directors S Koseff chief executive officer 64659 72806 B Kantor managing director 23931 23735 GR Burger group risk and finance director 43 402 22517 HJ du Toit 50000 Total Pounds Sterling 181 992 119058 Executive directors total assumed cost to company The table below provides an indication of the total cost to the company in relation to executive directors remuneration.
Total cash payments and benefits reflect the information disclosed in the tables above.
The IFRS accounting charge in terms of IFRS 2 reflects the cost that has been expensed by the company in its income statement in the relevant period in relation to share options and long-term incentive awards that have been granted to the executives.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Remuneration report 255 Remuneration report continued Further details on these equity awards are provided in the tables that follow: Accounting Accounting Salary, IFRS charge Total Salary, IFRS charge Total in relation assumed bonus in relation assumed bonus and other to equity remuneration and other to equity remuneration benefits awards expense benefits awards expense 2012 2012 2012 2011 2011 2011 Name Executive directors S Koseff chief executive officer 450000 288 512 738 512 3425000 850134 4275134 B Kantor managing director 450000 315 471 765 471 3425000 850195 4275195 GR Burger group risk and finance director 370 681 307 877 62 804 3155504 956097 4111601 HJ du Toit 4 769 178 833535 5 602 713 4533001 938009 5471010 Total Pounds Sterling 6 039 859 1 129 641 7 169 500 14538505 3594435 18132940 Accounting IFRS charges have been reversed in respect of awards lapsed, where performance conditions have not been met.
Refer to the notes to the directors interest in the Share Matching Plan on page 258.
Directors shareholdings, options and long-term incentive awards The companys register of directors interests contains full details of directors shareholdings, options and long-term incentive awards.
The tables that follow provide information on the directors shareholdings, options and long-term incentive awards for the year ended 31 March 2012.
The number of shares in issue and share prices for Investec plc and Investec Limited over the period is provided on pages 258 and 259.
In November 2003, Investec Limited concluded an empowerment transaction with Tiso Group Tiso, Peu Group Proprietary Limited Peu, a broad-based entrepreneurship development trust and an employee share trust in terms of which they acquired a 25.1% stake in the issued share capital of Investec Limited.
MP Malungani is the chairman of Peu.
During the year the transaction with Peu was unwound.
256 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Remuneration report Directors interest in preference shares as at 31 March 2012 Investec plc Investec Limited Investec Bank Limited 1 April 31 March 1 April 31 March 1 April 31 March Name 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Executive directors S Koseff 101198 101 198 3000 3 000 4000 4 000 The market price of an Investec plc preference share as at 31 March 2012 was R45.00 2011: R51.31 The market price of an Investec Limited preference share as at 31 March 2012 was R93.41 2011: R90.70 The market price of an Investec Bank Limited preference share as at 31 March 2012 was R98.25 2011: R98.00.
Directors interest in options as at 31 March 2012 Investec plc shares Number of Options Investec plc granted shares at Exercised lapsed Balance at Exercise 1 April during the during 31 March Name Date of grant price 2011 year the year 2012 Executive directors B Kantor 20 December 2002 1.59 9455 9 455 HJ du Toit 20 December 2002 1.59 9455 9 455 B Kantor and H du Toits options were granted in terms of the Investec plc Share Option Plan 2002 The options granted on 20 December 2002 were made for no consideration HJ du Toit exercised his options and sold 9 455 Investec plc shares on 6 February 2012, when the share price was 3.97 per share The performance conditions in respect of these options were met B Kantor exercised his options and bought 9 455 Investec plc shares on 8 March 2012, when the share price was 4.02 per share.
The performance conditions in respect of these options were met.
Investec Limited shares The directors do not have any interest in options over Investec Limited shares.
No new option grants were made to executive directors during the financial year.
The number of shares in issue and share prices for Investec plc and Investec Limited over the period is provided on page 259.
Directors interest in long-term incentive plans as at 31 March 2012 Number of Options Investec Exergranted Gross plc cised lapsed Balance Market gains shares during during at price at made on Date of Exercise at 1 April the the 31 March date of date of Name grant price 2011 year year 2012 exercise exercise Period exercisable Executive director HJ du Toit 25 June Nil 375 000 281250 93750 4.75 1 335 908 Remaining 25% is 2007 exercisable on 25 June 2012 25 June Nil 250 000 250000 75% is exercisable on 2009 25 June 2013 and 25% on 25 June 2014 1 July Nil 750 000 750000 75% is exercisable on 2010 1 July 2014 and 25% on 1 July 2015 The group has made awards in respect of nil cost options in the capital of Investec plc for nil consideration pursuant to the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
The awards are in accordance with the determination of the remuneration committee and with the rules of the LTIP.
These awards were made prior to HJ du Toit becoming an executive director.
HJ du Toit exercised his options and sold 281 250 Investec plc shares on 27 June 2011, when the share price was 4.75 per share.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Remuneration report 257 05 DLC Remuneration report.
indd 257 2012 06 18 11:36 AM Remuneration report continued Directors interest in the Share Matching Plan 2005 as at 31 March 2012 Number of Options Investec Exergranted Gross plc cised lapsed Balance Market gains shares during during at price at made on date of Date of Exercise at 1 April the the 31 March date of Name grant price 2011 year year 2012 exercise exercise Period exercisable S Koseff 25 June Nil 300000 300000 The entire award will 2009 be forfeited on 25 June 2012 1 July Nil 750000 750000 75% is exercisable on 2010 1 July 2014 and 25% on 1 July 2015 B Kantor 25 June Nil 300000 300000 The entire award will 2009 be forfeited on 25 June 2012 1 July Nil 750000 750000 75% is exercisable on 2010 1 July 2014 and 25% on 1 July 2015 GR Burger 25 June Nil 150000 150 000 The entire award was 2007 forfeited on 25 June 2011 25 June Nil 300000 300000 The entire award will 2009 be forfeited on 25 June 2012 1 July Nil 750000 750000 75% is exercisable on 2010 1 July 2014 and 25% on 1 July 2015 The performance conditions in respect of the award made to GR Burger on 25 June 2007 were not met and accordingly the entire award was forfeited on 25 June 2011.
The performance conditions in respect of the awards made on 25 June 2009 have not been met and accordingly the awards will be forfeited on 25 June 2012.
This plan was approved by shareholders at an extraordinary general meeting held on 14 November 2005.
The plan is considered essential in improving Investecs long-term prospects for recruitment and retention of key individuals.
The plan also provides further alignment of the interests of shareholders and management as the committee believes that a significant element of remuneration should be linked to our ability to deliver sustainable results to shareholders, and at the same time, enable management to share in these results.
Further details on the plan are available on our website.
No additional matching awards were made during the year.
Summary: total interest in Investec plc and Investec Limited ordinary shares, options and long-term incentive awards as at 31 March 2012 Investec plc Beneficially and nonShare Balance at Balance at beneficially Matching 31 March 31 March Name held Options Plan LTIPs 2012 2011 Executive directors S Koseff 4839133 1050000 5889133 5889133 B Kantor 63 980 1050000 1 113 980 1107980 GR Burger 2402135 1050000 3452135 3602135 HJ du Toit 1093750 1093750 1384455 Total number 7 305 248 4243750 11 548 998 11983703 As discussed above, 300 000 of these share awards will be forfeited on 25 June 2012.
258 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Remuneration report Investec Limited Beneficially and nonShare Balance at Balance at beneficially Matching 31 March 31 March Name held Options Plan LTIPs 2012 2011 Executive directors S Koseff 1809330 1 809 330 1809330 B Kantor 3801000 3 801 000 3801000 GR Burger 1037076 1 037 076 1037076 HJ du Toit 604740 604740 604740 Total number 7252146 7 252 146 7252146 The number of shares in issue and share prices for Investec plc and Investec Limited over the period is provided below.
Summary: Investec plc and Investec Limited share statistics 31 March 31 March High over Low over 2012 2011 the year the year Investec plc share price 3.82 4.78 5.22 3.18 Investec Limited share price R 47.16 52.80 57.36 42.00 Number of Investec plc shares in issue million 598.3 537.2 Number of Investec Limited shares in issue million 276.0 272.8 South African Companies Act, 2008 disclosures Subsequent to regulatory developments in South Africa, Investec Limited is required to disclose the remuneration of those individuals that are defined by the South African Companies Act No 71 of 2008 as amended, read together with the Companies Regulations 2011 together the Act, as Prescribed Officers.
In keeping with the groups integrated global management structure as well as the three distinct business activities of the group, i. e. Asset Management, Wealth & Investment and Specialist Banking, the Prescribed Officers for Investec Limited, as per the Act are the following Global Heads of the groups three distinct business activities: Asset Management Hendrik du Toit Wealth & Investment Steve Elliott Specialist Banking Stephen Koseff Bernard Kantor Glynn Burger.
Hendrik, Stephen, Bernard and Glynn are also the four executive directors of Investec Limited and their remuneration is disclosed on page 254.
Steve is remunerated by Investec plc a UK domiciled company and is not required to disclose his remuneration under the South African Companies Act.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Remuneration report 259 05 DLC Remuneration report.
indd 259 2012 06 18 11:37 AM Remuneration report continued Unaudited Additional remuneration disclosures FSA Remuneration Code disclosures In terms of the FSAs Chapter 11 Disclosure Requirements BIPRU 11.5.
18 the bank in the UK is required to make certain quantitative and qualitative remuneration disclosures on an annual basis with respect to FSA Code staff.
Code staff are defined as those employees including directors whose professional activities could have a material impact on the banks risk profile.
A total of 45 individuals were FSA Code staff in 2012.
The banks qualitative remuneration disclosures are provided on pages 235 to 253.
The information contained in the tables below sets out the banks quantitative disclosures in respect of FSA Code staff for the year ended 31 March 2012.
Aggregate remuneration by remuneration type Senior Other code million management staff Total Fixed remuneration 5.6 5.2 10.8 Variable remuneration Cash 5.2 5.9 11.1 Deferred shares 6.4 8.0 14.4 Other Options long-term incentive awards made in current year 0.2 0.3 0.5 Options long-term incentive awards made in prior years 3.2 1.6 4.8 Total aggregate remuneration and deferred incentives 20.6 21.0 41.6 Total number of employees receiving variable remuneration was 34.
Information based on the IFRS 2 accounting charge that has been expensed by the company in its income statement during the financial year.
Additional disclosure on deferred remuneration Senior Other code million management staff Total Deferred unvested remuneration outstanding at the beginning of the year 18.4 6.4 24.8 Deferred remuneration awarded in year 6.4 8.0 14.4 Deferred remuneration reduced in year through performance adjustments Deferred remuneration vested in year 4.9 1.7 6.6 Deferred unvested remuneration outstanding at the end of the year 19.9 12.7 32.6 Senior Other code million management staff Total Deferred unvested remuneration outstanding at the end of the year Equity 16.9 10.2 27.1 Cash 2.2 2.4 4.6 Other 0.8 0.1 0.9 19.9 12.7 32.6 Senior Other code million management staff Total Deferred remuneration vested in year For awards made in 2011 financial year For awards made in 2010 financial year 4.9 1.7 6.6 For awards made in 2009 financial year 4.9 1.7 6.6 260 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Remuneration report Other remuneration disclosures Senior Other code management staff Total Sign-on payments Made during the year million Number of beneficiaries Severance payments Made during the year million Number of beneficiaries Guaranteed bonuses Made during the year million Number of beneficiaries Pillar Three remuneration disclosures The bank in South Africa is required to make certain quantitative and qualitative remuneration disclosures on an annual basis in terms of the South African Reserve Banks Basel Pillar Three Disclosure requirements.
The information contained in the tables below sets out the banks quantitative disclosures for the year ended 31 March 2012.
Aggregate remuneration by remuneration type Financial and Senior Risk risk control Rmillion management takers staff Total Fixed remuneration 69.1 23.9 161.0 254.0 Variable remuneration Cash 135.7 45.7 58.3 239.7 Deferred shares 65.7 35.3 5.6 106.6 Other Options long-term incentive awards made in current year 0.9 3.9 2.0 6.8 Options long-term incentive awards made in prior years 78.0 21.4 24.3 123.7 Total aggregate remuneration and deferred incentives 349.4 130.2 251.2 730.8 Total number of employees receiving variable remuneration was 348.
Additional disclosure on deferred remuneration Financial and Senior Risk risk control Rmillion management takers staff Total Deferred unvested remuneration outstanding at the beginning of the year 203.8 38.4 5.0 247.2 Deferred remuneration awarded in year 65.7 35.3 5.6 106.6 Deferred remuneration reduced in year through performance adjustments Deferred remuneration vested in year 61.2 12.9 1.9 76.0 Deferred unvested remuneration outstanding at the end of the year 208.3 60.8 8.7 277.8 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Remuneration report 261 Remuneration report continued Financial and Senior Risk risk control Rmillion management takers staff Total Deferred unvested remuneration outstanding at the end of the year Equity 208.3 60.8 8.7 277.8 Cash Other 208.3 60.8 8.7 277.8 Financial and Senior Risk risk control Rmillion management takers staff Total Deferred remuneration vested in year For awards made in 2011 financial year For awards made in 2010 financial year 61.2 12.9 1.9 76.0 For awards made in 2009 financial year 61.2 12.9 1.9 76.0 Other remuneration disclosures Financial and Senior Risk risk control management takers staff Total Sign-on payments Made during the year Rmillion Number of beneficiaries Severance payments Made during the year Rmillion Number of beneficiaries Guaranteed bonuses Made during the year Rmillion 0.1 0.1 Number of beneficiaries 1 1 Included in variable remuneration as reflected on page 261.
262 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Remuneration report Annual financial statements 265 Directors responsibility statement 266 Directors report 271 Schedule A to the directors report 274 Declaration by the company secretary 275 Independent auditors report to the members of Investec plc 277 Independent auditors report to the members of Investec Limited 278 Combined consolidated income statement 279 Combined consolidated statement of comprehensive income 280 Combined consolidated balance sheet 281 Combined consolidated cash ow statement 282 Combined consolidated statement of changes in equity 284 Accounting policies 296 Notes to the financial statements 379 Denitions 380 Notices 422 Contact details Annual financial statements Annual financial statements 265 Directors responsibility statement 266 Directors report 271 Schedule A to the directors report 274 Declaration by the company secretary 275 Independent auditors report to the members of Investec plc 277 Independent auditors report to the members of Investec Limited 278 Combined consolidated income statement 279 Combined consolidated statement of comprehensive income 280 Combined consolidated balance sheet 281 Combined consolidated cash ow statement 282 Combined consolidated statement of changes in equity 284 Accounting policies 296 Notes to the financial statements 379 Denitions 380 Notices 422 Contact details Annual financial statements
