DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT INTRODUCTION FROM PETER JOHNSON, CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Committee is very much aware of the increased level of public debate surrounding executive pay over the last 12 months.
We have closely followed the proposals by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills on executive remuneration and consider that the changes we made to last years Directors remuneration report to increase transparency were in keeping with the intentions behind these proposals.
We have decided this year principally to retain our report structure following its total revision in 2011, but in response to discussions with shareholders and a shareholder proxy voting body have added some additional information relating to our annual bonus targets.
During 2012 there were very few changes to the compensation packages of our senior executives.
The senior executive teams salary increases were consistent with pay levels throughout the Group during the year.
The Company achieved the challenging financial objectives set in the budget agreed by the Board for the year and this performance has resulted in bonus payments for the executives being slightly above target.
In spite of the fact that many countries in which Bunzl operates continued to face difficult economic conditions, the Company has continued to perform well during 2012.
The Committee believes that this consistency has over the years been appropriately rewarded through the Bunzl Long Term Incentive Plan the LTIP.
As I reported last year the current LTIP expires in April 2014.
The Committee believes that the LTIP has worked well in both incentivising our senior management and aligning their interests with those of our shareholders.
Following a rigorous tender process, the Committee appointed Deloitte LLP Deloitte in October 2012 to assist us in reviewing the current long term incentive arrangements in the context of the remuneration package as a whole.
Deloitte reported their findings back to the Committee in February 2013.
Following on from the review, proposals for the introduction of a new plan upon expiry of the current LTIP will be developed and we will consult with the Companys principal shareholders on the draft proposals.
If the Committee proposes to retain a share option plan as part of the new LTIP, the relevant performance condition will be on a sliding scale.
Subject to it being approved by shareholders, it is our intention to implement the new LTIP following the Annual General Meeting AGM in2014.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
KPMG Audit Plc has audited the relevant content as required by the Act the tabular information on pages 47 to 50.
A resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the AGM on 17 April 2013.
COMMITTEE REMIT AND MEMBERSHIP The terms of reference of the Committee have been formally adopted by the Board and are available for inspection in the Investor Centre section of the Companys website, www.
The key responsibilities of the Committee include: t ensuring that executive directors and senior executives are properly incentivised to attract, retain and fairly reward them for their individual contribution to the Company and having due regard to the policies and practices applied to the rest of the employees within the Group: t determining the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman and the executive directors of the Board including setting their individual remuneration packages as well as their level of remuneration and overseeing all the Companys long term incentive plans: t ensuring that remuneration is aligned with and supports the Companys strategy and performance, having due regard to the shareholders and to the financial and commercial health of the Company, while at the same time not encouraging undue risk taking: and t communicating and discussing any remuneration issues with the Companys stakeholders as and when appropriate.
In carrying out these responsibilities, the Committee seeks external remuneration advice as necessary.
During the year the Committee received advice from  LLP PwC, New Bridge Street and Deloitte.
In 2012 PwC provided external survey data on directors remuneration and benefit levels and New Bridge Street made a presentation to update the Committee on recent market changes relating to executive remuneration and provided information to determine whether, and if so to what extent, the performance conditions attached to share options and performance share awards under the LTIP had been satisfied.
In October 2012 Deloitte were appointed by the Committee to undertake a review of the long term incentive arrangements as described above.
In addition to the work undertaken on behalf of the Committee, PwC also provides the Company with some tax and pre-acquisition due diligence services, New Bridge Street may from time to time also provide services to the Company on remuneration and benefit related matters that are not subject to review by the Committee and Deloitte also provides the Company with some tax related services.
The following independent non-executive directors were members of the Committee during 2012.
Ulrich Wolters will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 2013 AGM: Date of appointment Meetings eligible Meetings to the Committee to attend attendance Ulrich Wolters 21 July 2004 4 4 Peter Johnson 18 January 2006 4 4 David Sleath 5 December 2007 4 4 Eugenia Ulasewicz 20 April 2011 4 4 Jean-Charles Pauze, who was appointed as a non-executive director with effect from 1 January 2013, is also a member of the Committee and MeinieOldersma, who will join the Board as a non-executive director on 1April 2013, will also be a member of the Committee going forward.
The Secretary to the Committee is Celia Baxter, Director of Group HR.
No executive director or Board member plays any part in determining his or her remuneration.
During the year ended 31 December 2012, both the Chief Executive and the Chairman were consulted and invited to attend meetings of the Committee, but were not present during any part of the meeting when their own remuneration was under consideration.
In line with its remit, the following key issues were addressed by the Committee during the year: t approval of the 2011 Directors remuneration report: t review of all share plan earnings per share performance measures for the three year period ended 31 December 2011 and the total shareholder return TSR performance measures for the three year periods ended 31 March and 30 September 2012: t review of the achievement against targets of the awards under the annual bonus plan and the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme the DASBS and the setting of the targets for 2012: 38 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 t review and approval of the performance measures to be applied to the 2012 grants and awards under the LTIP: t review and approval of all grants and awards made under the LTIP and exercise of Committee discretion regarding the vesting of any outstanding grants and awards where appropriate: t annual review of all executive directors base salaries and benets in line with the Companys policies and practices: t consideration of current and prospective guidelines and regulations on executive remuneration: t development of a specication for the review of the LTIP, identication of potential remuneration consultants to assist the Committee in the review of the LTIP and appointment of a consultant following a tender process: and t analysis of the shareholder voting results at the 2012 AGM relating to the Directors remuneration report and engagement and discussion with relevant shareholders and a shareholder proxy voting body in connection therewith.
REMUNERATION POLICY ALIGNMENT WITH GROUP STRATEGY Bunzl continues to pursue its well dened strategy of developing the business through organic growth and targeted acquisitions in both existing and new geographies, while continuously improving the efficiency of our operations.
Bunzls business model relies on excellent customer and supplier relationships and the skills, knowledge and experience of its directors and employees.
The Companys remuneration policy supports this strategy by ensuring that the overall remuneration package is set at a competitive level whilst ensuring that additional reward is paid for high performance over a sustained period.
This policy is designed to ensure the recruitment, retention and motivation of the executive directors and other senior executives over the long term.
The performance related elements of the remuneration package are designed to incentivise executives to meet key performance metrics which align their interests and remuneration with those of shareholders, for example targets relating to earnings per share and TSR.
In setting such targets the Committee takes due account of the potential effect such targets could have on the attitude and behaviour of executives to risk within the business.
In addition the Committee has the discretion to take into account performance on environmental, social and governance matters.
The remuneration package comprises both core xed elements base salary, pension and other benets and performance based variable elements cash bonus, the DASBS and the LTIP.
The Committee has set a guideline that for on target performance approximately half of the remuneration package should be performance related.
The structure of the remuneration packages for on target and stretch performance for each of the executive directors is illustrated in the bar charts below: Michael Roney Below target 77% 23% performance 34% 10% 24% 32% Target performance 23% 7% 27% 43% Stretch performance Brian May Below target 78% 22% performance 36% 10% 24% 30% Target performance 25% 7% 27% 41% Stretch performance Patrick Larmon Below target 70% 30% performance 35% 15% 24% 26% Target performance 25% 11% 26% 38% Stretch performance Salary and benets Pension Bonus cash DASBS LTIP Notes a Salary represents annual salary for 2012 and benets such as a car or car allowance and private medical insurance as shown on page 47. b Pension represents the cost of pension accrued in 2012 in the Dened benefit Section of the Bunzl Pension Plan for Brian May, the value of the annual pension allowance for Michael Roney and Brian May, the contributions to the Dened Contribution Section of the Bunzl Pension Plan for Michael Roney and the total of company contributions to Patrick Larmons 401K Plan, Retirement Savings benefit the RSB and through the Dened Contribution Senior Executive Retirement Agreement SERA, further details of which are shown on page 45. c Below threshold performance comprises salary, benets and pension only with no bonus awarded and no LTIP awards vested.
d Target performance comprises annual bonus awarded at target level i. e. 70% of base salary comprised of 50% cash and 50% deferred shares under the DASBS and, for the LTIP, an assumption that 50% of performance shares will vest and the share options will deliver 25% of their face value in gain to the executives.
e Stretch performance comprises annual bonus awarded at maximum level i. e. 115% of base salary for Michael Roney and Brian May and 110% of base salary for Patrick Larmon comprised of 50% cash and 50% deferred shares under the DASBS and, for the LTIP, an assumption that 100% of performance shares will vest and the share options will deliver 50% of their face value in gain to the executives.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 39 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION In setting executive directors remuneration, the Committee is mindful of a range of factors, including remuneration policy, incentive arrangements and the remuneration packages across the Group.
In addition, the Committee reviews information on remuneration and benefit levels based on external survey data produced by PwC.
The Committee seeks to maintain, wherever possible, a consistent and appropriate basis for comparison year on year in terms of the survey methodology and, in particular, the use of comparator groups from which the survey data is produced.
There are three comparator groups that the Committee uses.
These are related to revenue, profit before tax and market capitalisation.
In each case the comparator group consists of at least 20 non-financial and non-oil oil services UK based companies that have substantial operations overseas.
Half of the companies in each comparator group are the next highest and half are the next lowest compared with Bunzl.
The total number of companies included in this survey will depend on the overlap of the companies within each of the three comparator groups but the aim is for the total number of companies to be at least 40.
The results from each of the comparator groups are blended by PwC to provide an overall assessed market position as at 1 January of the year of the review.
Neither PwC nor New Bridge Street provide specic recommendations to the Committee on remuneration or benefit levels for the executive directors.
The Committee does, however, review survey information provided by them in the light of its established remuneration policy before making its decisions.
All decisions of the Committee were implemented in full.
SALARY Purpose t recognise knowledge, skills and experience t reward individual performance t reect scope and size of the role t consider achievement related to environmental, social and governance issues Delivery t monthly t cash Policy t annual review in December with any changes effective from January t taking into consideration individual and Group performance, salary increases across the Group are benchmarked for appropriate salary levels using a comparator group of similarly sized companies with large international presence t pensionable The summary table above sets out the key policy principles for the salaries for the executive directors.
Similar principles are applied to the salaries of senior managers and other levels of employees in the organisation, taking into account local market practices across the Group.
Details of the executive directors annual salaries are as follows: Increase in salary Salary from Salary from 2012 to 2013 1 January 2013 1 January 2012 % Michael Roney 870,000 845,000 3.0% Brian May 480,000 468,000 2.6% Patrick Larmon US$989,000 US$960,000 3.0% Employees across the Group have received, on average, increases in the range of 2%4% dependent on geographical location with the exception being those employees based in Brazil and China where current market salary increases are much higher.
The actual increases received by employees have been based on each individuals contribution and performance as well as the market competitiveness of the salary.
ANNUAL BONUS t incentivise the attainment of annual corporate targets Purpose t retain high performing employees Delivery t annual award t 50% cash and 50% shares shares deferred normally for three years DASBS t Patrick Larmons maximum cash bonus payment is 65% of the total bonus although the total of cash and deferred shares is capped at 110% of base salary Policy t the measure for performance is the growth at constant exchange rates in the Companys earnings per share adjusted to exclude items which do not reect the Companys underlying financial performance constant exchange rate eps.
Bonus awards are at the Companys discretion and may take into account performance on environmental, social and governance matters as appropriate.
Patrick Larmon has additional measures based on the operating profit before intangible amortisation and acquisitionrelated costs pbit and working capital employed in the business area for which he has direct responsibility North America t the annual on target bonus opportunity for Michael Roney and Brian May is 70% of base salary with a maximum award of 115% of base salary and for Patrick Larmon is 70% of base salary with a maximum award of 110% of base salary t non-pensionable The annual bonus rewards short term business performance.
Appropriately stretching financial performance targets are set by the Committee at the beginning of the year.
The use of the constant exchange rate eps measure is seen as appropriate as it is one of Bunzls KPIs and aligns the executive directors interests with those of our shareholders.
The additional measures relating to pbit and working capital are relevant for Patrick Larmon as these are the key performance indicators of the business he is responsible for running and these measures, together with other business measures, are used to incentivise the management group in North America.
The relevant performance points are: threshold which must be exceeded to attract any payment of bonus : target: and maximum amount the level at which the bonus for that measure is capped.
These performance points are determined 40 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 at the start of the year by reference to the Groups annual budget.
No elements of the bonus are guaranteed.
As in previous years, the specic performance points are commercially sensitive and are therefore not made public.
At the end of the performance period, which is the Groups financial year from 1 January until 31 December, the Committee assesses the extent to which the performance measures have been achieved.
The level of bonus for each measure is determined by reference to the performance relative to that measures performance points, on a pro rata basis.
2012 bonus targets and outturn As outlined above 100% of Michael Roneys and Brian Mays and 25% of Patrick Larmons bonus potential relate to the growth in the constant exchange rate eps.
This resulted in a total bonus payment 7% above target for Michael Roney and Brian May.
For Patrick Larmon, a further 50% of his bonus potential relates to the pbit performance of North America and the final 25% of his bonus potential relates to the percentage of working capital employed by North America.
Pbit performance for North America resulted in a bonus payment 3% above target and the percentage of working capital employed resulted in a bonus payment 11% above target.
Accordingly the total payments under the annual bonus plan were: Total bonus payment cash and deferred shares as a % of salary 2012 2011 2010 2009 % % % % Michael Roney 77.0 114.0 81.6 52.2 Brian May 77.0 114.0 81.6 52.2 Patrick Larmon 85.9 110.0 76.7 54.2 Note a The actual performance related payments for 2012 and 2011 are included in the table on page 47.
Under the DASBS, eligible executives, including the executive directors, receive the deferred element of their annual bonus as conditional awards of ordinary shares or nil cost options.
The awards are satisfied by ordinary shares that are purchased in the market and provided via the Bunzl Group General Employee benefit Trust the Trust.
The awards are normally made between 1 March and 30 April and normally vest in the third year after the year in which the award is made.
In Brian Mays case the awards are satisfied as nil cost options with a three year exercise window commencing onthe date of vesting.
The rules of the DASBS provide that executives who leave the Group prior to the vesting of their awards lose their rights to any deferred shares although the Committee has discretion to allow such shares to vest if deemed appropriate to do so.
No dividends accrue on the awards prior tothe shares being transferred to the eligible executives following the vesting of the awards.
For awards made in 2011 and in subsequent years, the clawback terms provide scope for the Committee to reduce or cancel such DASBS awards to the extent that the value of the bonus originally awarded is subsequently deemed to have been overstated as a result of a material misstatement of the relevant financial statements by which the bonus was originally determined.
2013 bonus targets The structure for Michael Roneys, Brian Mays and 25% of Patrick Larmons bonus are unchanged from that described above for 2012.
The threshold for bonus payments on growth in constant exchange rate eps has been set above the outturn for 2012 on a constant exchange rate basis.
For Patrick Larmon the other 75% of his bonus will relate to the attainment of pbit performance of North America relative to budget which will be modied, positively or negatively, by the attainment of North Americas return on average operating capital targets.
LONG TERM INCENTIVES Purpose t incentivise growth in longer term earnings per share adjusted to exclude items that do not reect the Companys underlying financial performance eps and TSR t recruit and retain senior employees t discretionary biannual awards Delivery t executive share options and performance shares t variable as related to the achievement of performance measures over a three year period Policy Executive share options t maximum annual award of 300% of salary although this level of award has never been granted, see the Grant award levels section below t three year performance period t performance measure relates to the growth in the Companys eps relative to UK ination RPI Performance shares t maximum annual award of 200% of salary although this level of award has never been granted, see the Grant award levels section below t three year performance period t TSR performance measure 50% of the total award compares a combination of both the Companys share price and dividend performance during the three year performance period against a comparator group of similarly sized companies with large international presence the same group that is used for benchmarking salary t eps performance measure 50% of the total award relates to the growth in the Companys eps relative to UK ination RPI The long term element of remuneration continues to be delivered through the LTIP.
The LTIP Part A relates to the grant of executive share options and Part B to the award of performance shares.
All of the executive directors, Executive Committee members and other key employees participate in both parts of the LTIP which was adopted in 2004.
The majority of senior management only participate in the LTIP Part A.
Share options are granted and performance shares awarded under the LTIP in respect of both new issue shares and market purchased shares.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 41 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Grant award levels The total actual annual grant award levels for the executive directors are set out in the table below and have been applied to awards made from August 2008 to date.
Face value of grants awards as a percentage of base salary Executive share options Performance shares Michael Roney 150% 112.5% Brian May 140% 105% Patrick Larmon 125% 94% To the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied, grants of executive share options are normally exercisable between three and 10years after they have been made and awards of performance shares are normally exercisable between three and six years after they have been made.
A grant of executive share options or an award of performance shares lapses to the extent that the performance conditions are not satisfied in accordance with the measures set out in the forthcoming sections at the end of the three year performance period.
Performance The percentage of executive share options which vest is based solely on eps performance conditions, whereas for awards of performance shares vesting is based on a combination of eps and TSR performance.
Performance conditions in all cases are measured over a three year period and there is no retesting.
The Committee considers that both of these measures are appropriate benchmarks of the Companys performance.
This combination provides an important balance of measures relevant to the Groups business and market conditions as well as providing a common goal for the executive directors, senior management and shareholders.
Further details on these performance conditions are provided below.
Eps performance condition Executive share options LTIP Part A Executive share options may vest based solely on the Companys eps growth adjusted to exclude items which do not reect the Companys underlying financial performance relative to UK ination RPI over three years, based on the following sliding scale: Face value of annual executive share options granted as a proportion of salary Total margin over UK inflation RPI after three years First 150% of salary 9.3% Next 75% of salary 12.5% Next 75% of salary 19.1% The Committee considers that the current performance condition remains appropriate after taking into consideration the recent levels of increase in RPI, the current economic conditions, the performance of the business and the fact that a vested option has no value unless the share price increases.
They are, however, aware that should share options be retained within the new LTIP which will be proposed for shareholder approval in 2014, the structure of the performance condition will be amended to reect current best practice for such share plans.
The Committee considers that over many years vested executive share options have provided a high level of incentivisation for the management team to strive continually to improve the Groups operational performance and thereby increase the Companys share price.
Performance shares LTIP Part B The extent to which half of the awards may vest is subject to a performance condition based on the Companys eps growth adjusted to exclude items which do not reect the Companys underlying financial performance relative to UK ination RPI over three years, based on the following slidingscale: Total margin over UK inflation RPI after three years Proportion of performance share awards exercisable Below 12.5% Nil 12.5% 25% Between 12.5% and 33.1% Pro rata between 25%100% Over 33.1% 100% The Committee considers that the current performance condition remains challenging given the recent levels of increase in RPI, the current economic conditions and the performance of the business.
The Committee considers that the eps performance condition for the vesting of performance shares should be more stretching than for executive share options since on exercise of the award the value of the whole share is delivered to the participant as opposed to executive share options where value only arises if the share price on exercise is greater than the option price.
TSR performance condition Performance shares LTIP Part B The extent to which the other half of the performance share awards may vest is subject to the Companys TSR performance relative to the TSR performance of a specified group of companies the Comparator Group.
The process for identifying the Comparator Group is the same as that used for setting executive remuneration as described under Executive directors remuneration on page 40.
These performance share awards vest in full only if the Companys TSR performance is ranked at upper quartile or above within the Comparator Group and the following vesting schedule is applied: TSR Proportion of performance share awards exercisable Below median Nil Median 25% Median to upper quartile Pro rata between 25%100% Upper quartile 100% 42 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 The performance condition relating to TSR for all awards under the LTIP Part B provides for the exclusion from the Comparator Group of those companies that cease to be listed and the exclusion of those companies that have been subject to a recommended takeover offer and are therefore in the process of delisting.
Where the companies are excluded from the Comparator Group, the median upper quartile rankings are recalculated using the reduced number of companies in the Comparator Group.
The applicable Comparator Group for the LTIP Part B awards in October 2012 are shown below and will form the basis of the Comparator Group for the LTIP Part B awards in April 2013 subject to any variations as outlined above.
Aegis Group Hays Qinetiq Group Aggreko IMI Reckitt Benckiser Group Burberry Group Informa Rexam Carnival Inmarsat Rotork Chemring Group International Hotels Group Sabmiller Cobham International Airlines Group SIG Computacenter Intertek Group Smith & Nephew Cookson Group Invensys Smiths Group Croda International Johnson Matthey Spectris Diageo Kingfisher Spirax-Sarco Dixons Retail Lonmin Tate & Lyle Easyjet Meggitt Tui Travel Electrocomponents Melrose UBM Experian Millennium & Copthorne Hotels Weir Group G4S Mondi WPP GKN Pearson TSR is measured according to the return index calculated by Datastream and reviewed by New Bridge Street.
It is measured on the basis that all companies dividends are reinvested in the shares of those companies.
The return is the percentage increase in each companys index over the three year performance period.
The opening and closing indices for this calculation are respectively the average of the index numbers for the last month preceding the performance period and for the last month of that performance period.
Vesting of LTIP grants awards made in 2009 Executive share options LTIP Part A Grants of executive share options were made to the executive directors on 26 February 2009 and 27 August 2009 with the three year performance periods being completed on 31 December 2011.
The Committee subsequently assessed the relevant performance of the Company against the performance conditions.
Eps growth was 30.0% for the three years ended 31 December 2011 which compared to an increase in RPI of 12.4% over the same period.
Since the performance condition would have been satisfied if eps had grown by at least 21.7% over the period, all of the options vested.
Performance shares LTIP Part B Awards of performance shares were made to the executive directors on 23 April 2009 and 2 October 2009 with the three year performance periods being completed on 31 March 2012 and 30 September 2012 respectively.
The Committee subsequently assessed the performance of the Company against the relevant performance conditions.
The extent to which half of the awards would vest was subject to a performance condition based on eps growth relative to RPI.
Eps growth was 30.0% for the three years ended 31 December 2011 compared to an increase in RPI of 12.5% over the same period.
A quarter of the award would have been exercisable if eps had grown by at least 25.0% over the period and the whole award would have been exercisable if eps had grown by at least 45.6%.
As a result of the Companys actual growth in eps over the period, 43.4% of this part of the awards vested 21.7% of the full awards.
The extent to which the other half of the awards vested was based on the Companys TSR performance against the relevant Comparator Group.
For the April award, the Company ranked 22nd out of the remaining 40 companies in the Comparator Group of companies, resulting in no vesting for this part of the award.
For the October award, the Company ranked 11th out of the remaining 39 companies in the Comparator Group of companies, as a result of which 94.2% of this part of the award vested 47.1% of the full award for performance between median and upper quartile.
Accordingly 21.7% of the total performance shares awarded in April 2009 and 68.8% of the total performance shares awarded in October 2009 vested in April and October 2012 respectively.
Performance graph Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 requires that the Company must provide a graph comparing the TSR performance of a hypothetical holding of shares in the Company with a broad equity market index over a five year period.
The Companys TSR performance against the FTSE Support Services Sector over a five year period commencing on 1 January 2008 is shown below.
170 Bunzl 160 FTSE Support Services 150 140 130 120 110 100 90 80 70 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Source: Thomson Reuters datastream BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 43 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED LTIP change of control The rules of the LTIP provide that in the event of a change of control of the Company as a result of takeover, reconstruction or winding up of the Company, the Committee has the discretion to allow grants of options awards to become exercisable taking into consideration the period of time which has elapsed since the date of the grant of option award and the achievement of the relevant performance conditions at that date.
ALL EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES The executive directors are also eligible to participate in all employee share schemes which are designed to incentivise employees of the Group by giving them opportunities to build a shareholding in the Company.
The UK based executive directors may participate in an HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approved Sharesave Scheme and the US based executive director may participate in an IRS approved Employee Stock Purchase Plan US the ESPP.
In addition employees in Australia, Canada, Germany and the Netherlands are eligible to participate in an International Sharesave Plan and Irish employees can take part in the Irish Sharesave Plan.
Sharesave Scheme The current Sharesave Scheme was approved by shareholders in 2011, is approved by HMRC and is open to all UK employees who have completed at least three months of continuous service.
It, like the Sharesave Scheme which preceded it, is linked to a contract for monthly savings of up to 250 per month over a period of either three or five years.
Under the Sharesave Scheme options are granted to participating employees at a discount of up to 20% of the market price prevailing on the day immediately preceding the date of invitation to apply for the option.
Options are normally exercisable either three or five years after they have been granted.
Both Michael Roney and Brian May participate in the Sharesave Scheme.
ESPP The current ESPP was also approved by shareholders in 2011 and, like its predecessor, provides an opportunity for employees in the US to purchase the Companys shares in the market at a 15% discount to the market price, up to an annual maximum of 10% of remuneration or US$25,000 worth of shares, whichever is lower.
The purchase of the shares is funded by after tax payroll deductions from the employee with the employing company contributing the 15% discount.
Shares held by Patrick Larmon under the ESPPs are included in his ordinary share interests set out in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements.
OPTIONS AND AWARDS OUTSTANDING To satisfy the future exercise of options or awards of performance shares under the Groups employee share schemes, ordinary shares are either acquired in the market by the Trust or the Company issues new shares.
The Trust The Trust is used to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards of ordinary shares made under the DASBS and the LTIP Parts A and B.
The number of shares held in the Trust to satisfy outstanding awards is monitored by the Board.
The Trust is funded by interest free loan facilities from the Company enabling the Trust to facilitate the purchase of ordinary shares to satisfy the future vesting or exercise of options and awards under the DASBS and LTIP.
The loan is either repaid from the proceeds of the exercise of options or, in the case of ordinary shares acquired by the Trust to satisfy vesting and exercise of awards under the DASBS and the LTIP Part B, the Company will subsequently waive the loan provided over the life of the awards.
The Trust currently waives dividends on the ordinary shares held by it.
As at 31 December 2012, the Trust held 4,348,175 ordinary shares with a market value of 43.9 million 31 December 2011: 5,230,867 ordinary shares: market value 46.2 million being 1.2% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital 31 December 2011: 1.5% including treasury shares.
While shares are held by the Trust, the trustee does not exercise any voting rights.
Details of the Companys material equity share based payment arrangements are set out in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES In order to align further the interests of the executive directors and shareholders, the executive directors are required to build a significant personal shareholding in the Company.
A formal share ownership guideline is in place under which executive directors are expected to retain shareholdings worth at least equal to their annual base salaries.
A period of three years is allowed for executives who are promoted from within the Company to achieve this shareholding with an additional two years permitted in the case of external appointments.
As at 31 December 2012, the value of the executive directors shareholdings as a percentage of salary were: Actual share ownership as a percentage of salary at 31 December 2012 at the closing mid-market price Michael Roney 373% Brian May 227% Patrick Larmon 190% The interests of the executive directors, and their connected persons, in the ordinary shares of the Company at 31 December were: 2012 2011 Michael Roney 312,263 289,375 Brian May 105,240 105,240 Patrick Larmon 113,875 109,381 The interests of all of the directors in the ordinary shares of the Company are shown in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements.
44 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 PENSION BENEFITS Purpose t provision of competitive post retirement benets Delivery t Bunzl Pension Plan the BPP for UK based executive directors, the Bunzl USA, Inc. Retirement Plan the US Plan and Retirement Saving benefit the RSB for US based executive directors and pension allowances and supplemental pension arrangements t monthly pension payment Policy t all dened benefit pension plans in the Group have been closed since 2003 to new entrants who are offered a dened contribution arrangement t the current pension arrangements of the executive directors reects their date and place of joining the Group In the UK, Michael Roney receives a pension allowance of 30% of base salary.
He has chosen to join the Dened Contribution Section of the BPP and his contribution of 5% of base salary, up to the pensionable salary cap notionally 129,600 for tax year 2011 2012 and 137,400 for tax year 2012 2013 is matched by the Company.
During 2012 such contributions amounted to 6,773 2011: 6,405 and this amount was deducted from his pension allowance.
The Company also provides lump sum life assurance cover of four times base salary.
Brian May, who joined the Group in the UK prior to the closure of the dened benefit sections of the BPP, is a member of the Bunzl Senior Pension Section of the BPP.
His pension accrues at the rate of 2.4% per annum up to two thirds of the pensionable salary cap, as described above.
The employee contribution rate is currently 9% of pensionable salary.
The normal retirement date is 60 years of age but members can choose to take a pension at any time after the age of 55 years without the employing companys agreement, subject to a reduction as determined by the pension fund trustee in conjunction with the pension fund actuary.
This section of the BPP includes provision for spouses benets on death in service or after retirement.
In the event of death in service a spouses pension equal to 60% of the members prospective pension at normal retirement age would be payable.
A spouses pension in the event of death after retirement is equal to 60% of the members full pension, irrespective of any decision to exchange part of the benefit for a lump sum.
In addition to benets from the BPP, Brian May receives a pension allowance of 30% of base salary above the pensionable salary cap which permits him to make provision, of his own choice, in respect of that part of his salary which exceeds the cap.
Patrick Larmon originally joined the US Plan, subject to IRS limits, which accrued at a rate of 1.67% per annum up to 50% of the five year average pensionable salary less the primary social security benefit, with a normal retirement age of 65 years.
Pensionable salary in the US Plan is capped at US$140,000.
On closure of the US Plan, Patrick Larmon chose to freeze his benefit and join a dened contribution plan, the RSB.
Contributions to the RSB are fully funded by the employer on a sliding scale that is age related.
The contributions are a percentage of base salary maximum 5% which is capped at US$200,000 per annum.
The Company made contributions in respect of Patrick Larmon in 2012 of 6,289 2011: 6,250.
In addition to the benets described above, Patrick Larmon receives a supplementary pension through a dened benefit Senior Executive Retirement Agreement SERA.
Patrick Larmons SERA provides for a lifetime pension of US$100,000 per annum, payable upon retirement.
In 2012 the Company paid all necessary contributions, on actuarial advice, to the SERA which amounted to 74,030 2011: 83,337.
This decrease is attributable to a partial year of service cost due to Patrick Larmon reaching the age of 60 when service accrual ceases.
In 2007, the SERA arrangement was closed to new entrants and existing members benets were frozen.
A new dened contribution SERA DC SERA was put in place for Patrick Larmon.
During 2012 contributions to the DC SERA amounted to 182,390 2011: 181,250.
Patrick Larmon also participates in the Bunzl USA, Inc Deferred Savings 401k Plan.
The Company makes matching contributions to this Plan.
During 2012 contributions for Patrick Larmon amounted to 6,934 2011: 6,891.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS It is the Companys policy that executive directors are normally employed on contracts that provide for 12 months notice from the Company and six months notice from the executive.
For Michael Roney and Brian May there is no predetermined compensation for termination of these contracts.
Patrick Larmons contract provides that on termination by the Company without cause he is entitled to receive payment of 12 months base salary plus health insurance coverage, reduced by any interim earnings.
There are no provisions for any of the directors for predetermined compensation in excess of one years remuneration and benets in-kind.
The date of each service contract is noted in the table below.
Date of service contract Michael Roney 1 September 2005 Brian May 9 December 2005 Patrick Larmon 1 January 2005 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS With the specic approval of the Board in each case, executive directors may accept external appointments as non-executive directors of other companies and retain any related fees paid to them.
Michael Roney served as a non-executive director of Johnson Matthey Plc throughout 2012 and retained fees of 65,500.
Brian May served as a non-executive director of United Utilities Group PLC from 1 September 2012 and retained fees of 19,467.
Patrick Larmon does not hold any such appointments.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 45 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS TERMS OF APPOINTMENT The non-executive directors do not have service contracts with the Company but instead have letters of appointment.
The date of appointment and the most recent re-appointment and the length of service for each non-executive director are shown in the table below.
Length of service Date of last as at 2013 Date of appointment re-appointment at AGM Annual General Meeting Ulrich Wolters 1 July 2004 18 April 2012 8 years 9 months Peter Johnson 1 January 2006 18 April 2012 7 years 3 months David Sleath 1 September 2007 18 April 2012 5 years 7 months Eugenia Ulasewicz 1 April 2011 18 April 2012 2 years Jean-Charles Pauze 1 January 2013 n a Up for election Meinie Oldersma 1 April 2013 n a Up for election Ulrich Wolters will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 2013 AGM On termination, at any time, a non-executive director is entitled to any accrued but unpaid directors fees but not to any other compensation.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY The current fee structure for the non-executive directors is shown below: With effect from January 2013 Fees paid in 2012 Basic fee 63,000 61,500 Supplements: Senior Independent Director 16,000 16,000 Audit Committee Chairman 13,000 12,000 Remuneration Committee Chairman 13,000 12,000 The fees for the non-executive directors are considered annually and are determined in light of market practice and with reference to time commitment and responsibilities associated with the roles.
Non-executive directors fees including those of the Chairman are determined within the overall aggregate annual limit of 1,000,000 authorised by shareholders with reference to the Companys Articles of Association.
The Board as a whole considers the policy and structure for the non-executive directors fees on the recommendation of the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The non-executive directors do not participate in discussions on their specic levels of remuneration.
Non-executive directors receive no other pay or benets with the exception of reimbursement of expenses incurred in respect of their duties as directors of the Company.
CHAIRMANS TERMS OF APPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION The Committee is responsible for determining the terms of engagement and fees payable to the Chairman.
This process takes into account the breadth of the role coupled with its associated levels of commitment and expertise.
Philip Rogerson has been a director of the Company since 1 January 2010 and has been Chairman of the Company from 1 April 2010.
The terms of his appointment provide that he holds the appointment for an initial term of three years unless terminated earlier by either party giving to the other not less than three months written notice.
The terms of Philip Rogersons appointment provided for an annual fee of 300,000 in 2010 and 2011.
The annual fee was increased to 310,000 with effect from January 2012 and will be reviewed again in February 2014.
In common with the non-executive directors, Philip Rogerson does not participate in the Companys share schemes, bonus or long term incentive plans and is not a member of any Group pension plan.
COPIES OF SERVICE CONTRACTS AND TERMS OF APPOINTMENT Copies of the executive directors service contracts and the details of the terms of appointment of each non-executive director and the Chairman are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Companys registered ofce and will also be available for inspection at the AGM on 17April 2013.
46 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The following table gives details of each directors remuneration for the financial year 2012.
The deferred element of the bonus is shown above as a cash amount.
However this cash amount is conditionally awarded as shares as described on page 41.
Shares relating to the 2011 deferred bonus were awarded in 2012 as shown in the table on page 48 and the shares relating to the 2012 deferred bonus will be awarded in 2013. b The remuneration for Patrick Larmon is paid or determined in US dollars and has been translated at the average exchange rates for the year of 1: US$1.59 in respect of 2012 and 1: US$1.60 in respect of 2011. c The pension allowance is the amount paid in cash during 2012.
Further information relating to pensions is on page 45 and the table below which shows increases in accrued benets during the year for directors who are members of the Groups dened benefit pension plans.
d In addition to the remuneration paid to directors in 2011 shown above, Charles Banks, who retired as non-executive director during the year, received remuneration of 29,600 in respect of the period 1 January 2011 to 31 May 2011.
Increases in pension benets at 31 December 2012 Accrued Accrued Transfer value Change in Transfer benefits benefits of accrued transfer value of value of accrued at 31.12.11 at 31.12.12 benefits accrued benefits benefits per annum per annum at 31.12.11 during the year at 31.12.12 Brian May 47,549 53,698 965,897 126,591 1,104,679 Patrick Larmon 16,856 16,028 143,998 21,182 165,180 Excluding SERA entitlements Notes a Of the additional benets accrued since 1 January 2012, the increases attributable to factors other than ination or foreign exchange translation were 5,103 for Brian May and nil for Patrick Larmon whose benets are frozen in this plan.
b Pension accruals shown are the amounts accrued based on service with Bunzl plc or its subsidiaries.
c The changes in the transfer values of accrued benets have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with any relevant actuarial legislation and, in the case of Brian May, are net of his contributions.
The change in the transfer value of accrued benets for Brian May includes the effect of uctuation in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company and the directors, such as changes in market conditions.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 47 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Deferred share awards as at 31 December 2012 The following deferred share awards have been made to the directors.
Further information relating to the deferred bonus is provided on pages 40 to 41.
No shares lapsed during the year.
b Brian Mays awards are nil cost options with a three year exercise window commencing on the date of vesting.
48 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 LTIP The tables below show the number of executive share options and performance shares held by the executive directors under the LTIP.
Details of the relevant performance conditions and structure of the LTIP are set out on pages 42 to 43.
In addition Michael Roney exercised share options on 1 October 2012 in respect of 103,500 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 564p at a market price of approximately 1,116p resulting in a further gain of 571,320: ii Brian May on 9 March 2012 in respect of 20,000 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 568p, 32,382 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 648.5p, 32,500 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 652.5p, 34,000 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 659p, 33,000 ordinary shares at anexercise price of 684.5p and 5319 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 564p, at a market price of 991p resulting in a gain of 542,258.
In addition Brian May exercised share options on 28 September 2012 in respect of 47,681 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 564p and 51,000 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 585p at a market price of approximately 1,115p resulting in a further gain of 533,022: and iii Patrick Larmon on 5 March 2012 in respect of 48,411 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 568p and 38,458 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 648.5p at a market price of approximately 960p resulting in a gain of 309,568. b The mid-market price of a share on 31 December 2012 was 1,009p and the range during 2012 was 851.5p to 1,167p.
All employees share scheme Sharesave Scheme The table below shows the number of share options granted to the executive directors under the Sharesave Scheme.
Details of the Sharesave Scheme are set out on page 44.
Options at Exercise Options Options at 1 January price exercisable 31 December 2012 Grant date p between 2012 Michael Roney 27 March 2012 770 01.05.17 31.10.17 1,948 Brian May 3,462 24 March 2009 452 01.05.14 31.10.14 3,462 Peter Johnson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 25 February 2013 50 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012
