Governance 76 Nominations Committee Report and Directors Remuneration Report give full consideration to succession planning for Directors and other experience relevant to the gaming sector from individuals who would senior management in the course of its work, taking into account the satisfy the Codes criteria for independence.
challenges and opportunities facing the Company, and what skills and In accordance with these recommendations, the Nominations expertise are needed on the Board in the future: Committee commenced a search for two new independent Directors, be responsible for identifying and nominating candidates for the though this was reduced to one when Jim Ryan and Joachim stepped approval of the Board, to ll Board vacancies as and when they down from the Board.
Following an extensive global search managed arise:and bya leading search rm, the Committee recommended and the Board make recommendations to the Board concerning the re-appointment agreed that Sylvia Coleman should be appointed as an additional byshareholders of any Director.
She joined the Board on 8 March 2013.
This also satis es the Boards commitment to appoint at least one Business during the year female Director during 2013, though Sylvia Colemans appointment was During 2012 the Nominations Committee met four times to deal with the made on merit.
following business: Early in 2013 the Board, its committees and individuals participated in a March: further performance review by Linstock.
The results of the review have How the results of the Board performance evaluation would feed into been shared with all Directors.
a review of the Boards composition Terms of appointment Agree the recommendation for the re-appointments of each of the With the exception of the Chairman of the Integration Committee, which Directors at the2012 AGM provides for a term of three years from the Merger, the letters of The Committees membership, which led to the size of the Committee appointment for each of the Non-Executive Directors donot specify a being reduced from ten members to three xed term of appointment.
The Board has resolved, however, that if any August: Non-Executive Director remains in of ce for a period of six years, having satis ed annual performance evaluations, then that Non-Executive Tender process with recruitment rms to assist with the recruitment Directors re-appointment will be subject to a rigorous review by the of independent Non-Executive Directors Nominations Committee and Board, both bodies taking into account the October: need to maintain an active and progressive Board.
The Board does not Review candidates put forward as independent Non-Executive expect that any Non-Executive Director will serve for a period of greater Directors and agree approach to be made with short-listed individuals than nine years.
December: The Code recommends that notice or contract periods for Directors Considered status of independent Non-Executive Recruitment should be set at one year or less.
As disclosed in the Remuneration Reviewed the Boards composition, size and independence in light Report on pages 87 and 88, the notice periods for all the Directors ofthe actual and proposed changes to the Boards membership.
In 2012 the Board underwent a detailed performance evaluation with The letters of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors and the Lintstock Limited, an experienced third-party corporate governance service agreements for the Executive Directors will be available for adviser.
Although the Board had functioned well and effectively in inspection 30 minutes prior to and during the AGM.
overseeing the Merger integration process, the Nominations Committee Simon Duffy was mindful of both the Boards size and the independence issue, as Chairman of the Nominations Committee wellas of the need to ensure it has an appropriate balance of skills 15 March 2013 andexperience.
The aim of the evaluation exercise was to review howwell the Board and its committees were operating and what improvements should be made to ensure the experience and knowledge I.
Directors Remuneration Report of the Board was appropriate to lead bwin.
party beyond theMerger integration stage.
Introduction This evaluation process required each Director to answer a series of In 2012 bwin.
party made good progress with the Merger integration questions on the performance of the Board, the Chairman, individuals process, with greater synergy savings captured than originally forecast and committees and was followed up by each Director being at the time the Merger was announced and the successful migration interviewed by Lintstocks consultants.
The results werepresented to ofall of the Groups dotcom customers onto one software gaming the Nominations Committee and the Board once the Chairman had platform.
Disappointingly these successes have been overshadowed discussed the conclusions of the review with each Director individually.
byregulatory uncertainty in the online gaming sector in Europe and the The review did not highlight any signi cant short-comings with the way lack of any meaningful regulation in the United States.
The share price in which the Board, its committees and individual Directors were and financial performance of the Group has suffered as a result.
It did emphasis that the Directors generally felt that the Boardwas too large and that it could bene t from an injection of fresh bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting Governance 77 Directors Remuneration Report It remains a core objective of the Groups remuneration policy to provide sections headed Summary of the long-term incentive plans and competitive remuneration packages that support the business and its Totalemoluments overview to the extent they are required to strategic goals, by recruiting and retaining high calibre individuals.
Itisessential that these individuals have the necessary skills and Rod Perry entrepreneurial drive to grow the business and ensure bwin.
party Chairman of the Remuneration Committee continues to be a leader in digital entertainment.
Retention of key 15 March 2013 employees has and will continue to be challenging for the Group as theMerger integration process moves towards completion in 2013, thebusiness adapts to navigating the current regulatory environment Unaudited and new competitors enter the sector in the US looking to recruit from Purpose of the Committee the Groups talentpool.
The Board has appointed the Remuneration Committee to oversee 2013 is the last year of operation for the Companys senior executive theremuneration policy and practices adopted by the Group.
The plans, the Value Creation Plan and Bonus Banking Plan.
These two plans Committees terms of reference are available on bwin.
partys website, agreed with shareholders over two years ago have delivered in line with http: www.
com AboutUs CorporateGovernance the rationale for these schemes and they have remained unchanged.
Bonus Banking Plan and Value Creation Plan were seen in 2010 as a holistic approach to drive both key performance indicator delivery and The key objectives of the remuneration policy are to: shareholder returns.
The plan targeted at shareholder returns Value Establish competitive remuneration terms that allow the Group Creation Plan has not generated any contribution for participants over torecruit, retain and incentivise the most talented managers: the past two years, which is consistent with the share price performance, and the Bonus Banking Plan has ensured that participants Promote the achievement of bwin.
partys rolling three-year business have half of their annual awards deferred and linked to future share strategy through the provision of appropriate targets that stretch price performance.
We believe that these plans have performed as we andmotivate employees to deliver on the strategic objectives: intended when created in 2010 at the time the Merger was announced.
Ensure effective risk management and sustainable performance The successor plans have been designed with our remuneration isencouraged through reward: and consultants, PwC and we will be undertaking a consultation process Ensure senior executive remuneration is aligned with the interests with our major shareholders later this year.
It is anticipated that ofbwin.
partys shareholders and other stakeholders following this consultation, a circular to shareholders setting out details about the successor plans in the context of the Groups business The Committees main responsibilities are: strategy and forward looking remuneration policy will be published and Agree the remuneration policy for the Chairman of the Board, an Extraordinary General Meeting of shareholders convened to approve Executive Directors, Company Secretary and senior executives the new plans.
Information on this process will follow in due course.
together the Senior Of cers and review regularly the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy: In accordance with best practice, the Remuneration Committee continues to regularly review the Groups risk policy against the Ensure the remuneration policy provides for individuals to receive operation of the Companys incentive plans to ensure that their appropriate remuneration and incentives to encourage enhanced operation is consistent with this policy.
The Committee believes that performance and to be rewarded, in a fair and responsible manner, theopportunities within the incentive arrangements are warranted by fortheir individual contributions to the success of the Group: the challenges set out above and that these arrangements encourage Review annually the total individual remuneration package of the the sustainable long-term value of the Company and alignment with the Senior Of cers: interests of shareholders.
Liaise with the Nominations Committee to ensure that the This report has been prepared on behalf of the Board in accordance remuneration of any newly appointed Senior Of cer is within the withSchedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Companys overall remuneration policy: Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the Regulations.
The report Set and monitor performance criteria for any bonus arrangements also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the forthe Senior Of cers and the framework of the bonus structure for Financial Services Authority anddescribes how the Board has applied staff generally: the principles and complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Approve the length and terms of all service contracts for the Executive Governance Code relating to Directors remuneration.
An advisory Directors and the appointment letter for the Board Chairman: resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Companys Annual General Meeting on 19 June 2013. Review and approve the introduction of new share option and share award schemes, set or recommend the performance criteria for The auditors are required to report on the auditable part of this report awards, determine each year whether awards will be made and the and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been overall amount of the awards and approve any awards proposed for properly prepared in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Senior Of cers: and Report Regulations 2002.
BDO LLP and BDO Limited have audited the Governance 78 Directors Remuneration Report Approve the terms of termination of the Chairman of the Board or Carried out the annual review of the Remuneration Committees work anyExecutive Director and ensure such terms are fair and reasonable and terms of reference andnot excessive, that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to June: mitigate loss is fully recognised.
Reviewed the terms of the pre-Merger loans made to Norbert Membership Teufelberger and Manfred Bodner prior to the Merger The members of the Remuneration Committee are all independent August: Non-Executive Directors: Received a report on executive remuneration trends from PwC Rod Perry Chairman Reviewed the Groups remuneration strategy Per Afrell Considered the process and timetable for introducing the successor plans for the Value Creation Plan and Bonus Banking Plan Helmut Kern Reviewed a revised comparator group to be used as part of the Lewis Moonie process for determining Executive Director remuneration Advisers Monitored the Groups Clean EBITDA performance versus the target  LLP PwC in London provides guidance tothe for 2012 Remuneration Committee on remuneration trends, shortand long-term December: incentives and general market remuneration developments.
PwC was appointed by the Committee following a tender process inmid-2010 in Considered potential successor plans for the Value Creation Plan and which a number of potential advisers participated.
PwCs performance Bonus Banking Plan isregularly reviewed by the Remuneration Committee.
During 2012 Adopted a revised comparator group for Executive Director separate departments of PwC in London have provided internal audit remuneration reviews of bwin.
partys payroll and sports-betting marketing functions Received a report on the implications of a potential corporate and PwC rms in France and Italy have also provided corporate tax restructuring on the current share plan awards advice to the Companys French and Italian subsidiaries respectively.
Approved the final remuneration terms for the retiring Co-CEO This work was completely unrelated to and segregated from the work performed by PwCs remuneration consultancy and in the Remuneration Met with PwC without management representatives present.
Committees view did not undermine their independence.
Remuneration policy The Company Secretary is the secretary to the Remuneration The online gaming sector continues to be a highly competitive Committee.
anddynamic environment and thefollowing key factors are taken intoaccount: In performing its duties during the year, the Remuneration Committee consulted with the Chairman of the Board, the Group Human Resources The nature of the market in which the Group operates and, in Director, the Co-CEOs and the CFO.
The Remuneration Committee particular, the fact that the regulation and legality of online gaming ensured that no individual was involved in any decisions about their varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, is subject to uncertainties and own remuneration.
may be impacted by adverse changes to regulation of online gaming or the interpretation of regulation by regulators: Business during the year The need for incentive arrangements to incorporate suitable During 2012 the Remuneration Committee met four times to review and riskadjustment provisions to ensure executives do not receive consider the following items of business: unjusti ed windfalls: March: The need to attract and retain key talent and drive high performance: Considered the UK Governments executive remuneration Increasing regulation impacting the Groups margins due to additional consultation cost of compliance and taxation: Set 2012 salary levels The requirement for the Executive Directors and certain senior Determined the contributions to be made under the Bonus Banking executives to relocate and discharge all of their responsibilities Plan for 2011 fromGibraltar: Considered the performance under the Value Creation Plan The opening of the US online gambling market under a federal or state licensing regime, together with the timing of such a development, may Reviewed and approved staff retention initiatives have a substantial impact on the Groups financial and share price Rati ed the 2012 performance formula for the Bonus Banking Plan performance.
The remuneration policy has to be exible and durable and Bonus and Shares Plan enough to accommodate these changes without becoming Reviewed the proposed Directors Remuneration Report for the year compromised: and ended 31December 2011 bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting 79 The need to reconcile UK corporate governance guidance with As a result of the above considerations, the Group has adopted a marketremuneration practices in all jurisdictions where the Group highly leveraged incentive policy to ensure that the pro le of the has employees.
remuneration on offer is supportive of the Groups business strategy and the effect of legislative changes.
In conjunction with this In this context particular focus is placed on providing a share-based approach, the policy adopts comparatively modest elements for remuneration package appealing to entrepreneurial and innovative the xed elements of the total remuneration package, with salaries executives.
The current share-based awards were designed in 2010 and targeted at median quartile levels, minimal bene ts and a minimum introduced in 2011 following the completion of the Merger and aim to matching pension provision of 1% of salary.
take account of the risks associated with the online gaming business and seek to address the following factors: Comparator groups Long-term incentives with standard three-year performance periods The Remuneration Committee has adopted a combination of the are dif cult to use to motivate and retain senior executives due to the following comparator groups to benchmark its remuneration: fast moving nature of the market: i companies in the FTSE 250 Index: and Comparative total shareholder return targets are inappropriate as even direct industry comparators have a different business mix and ii a bespoke comparator group of the following international different risk exposure: companies: Incentives need to be exible enough todeal with the changing Aristocrat Leisure Lottomatica regulatory environment in which the Group operates: and Bally Technologies NCR Betfair Group MGM Resorts The remuneration challenge for the Group is to have remuneration Betsson AB Net ix arrangements in place where part of the reward provided to senior Boyd Gaming Scienti c Games Corp. executives is linked to shareholder return and is not completely Caesars Entertainment Shuf e Master undermined by the risk factors impacting the sector and theGroup.
Electronic Arts Take Two Interactive Software Expedia Unibet HSN William Hill IAC InterActivecorp WMS Industries International Game Technology Zynga Ladbrokes The following table summarises the Remuneration Committees policy for each element of the remuneration package against the previous comparators: Potential total short-term Potential annual Potential total Base salary Bonus Pension Bene ts in kind remuneration available share awards compensation value Upper Lower Median to Upper Median to Median Quartile Lower Quartile Quartile Upper Quartile Quartile Upper Quartile This supports the performance based culture of the Company.
Fixed costs are tightly managed and total The policy in respect of long-term incentives  will only exceed the median ifthe performance-based bonus is earned forthe relevant and potential compensation value is an financial year.
In certain circumstances, the Remuneration Committee will, atitsdiscretion, setbase salary outside of extension ofthepolicy on total short-term policy in order to secure the recruitment and retention oftheappropriate individualfor the role.
In such cases the remuneration.
Executive Directors willonly Committee will take into account factors such as the individuals skillsand level of experience.
receive a market competitive package if theannual bonus and long-term incentives areearned.
The charts on page 80 show the on-target and maximum compensation for each of the Executive Directors based on the following assumptions for 2012: Assumption On Target Maximum Salary Salary Salary Bene ts Bene ts Bene ts 50% of Maximum 100% of Maximum Bonus Contribution Contribution Fair Value of 50% of the 100% of the VCP Award at Grant Fair Value Fair Value The Committee also considers corporate performance on environmental, social and governance ESG issues when setting the remuneration ofExecutive Directors and senior managers, ensuring these good practice objectives are appropriately addressed in each individuals objectives.
TheRemuneration Committee also reviews whether incentive structures may raise ESG risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour andis of the view that this is not the case with the current incentive structures.
Governance 80 Directors Remuneration Report CEO On Target CEO Maximum Salary Salary Benets Benets Bonus Banking Plan Bonus Banking Plan VCP Fair Value VCP Fair Value COO On Target COO Maximum Salary Salary Benets Benets Bonus Banking Plan Bonus Banking Plan VCP Fair Value VCP Fair Value CFO On Target CFO Maximum Salary Salary Benets Benets Bonus Banking Plan Bonus Banking Plan VCP Fair Value VCP Fair Value Remuneration components a.
Salaries Jim Ryan and Joachim Baca stepped down as Directors of the Company with effect from 15 January 2013.
Details of Jim Ryans departure terms Policy Lower Quartile to Median of Comparator Groups are set out on page 84 of this report.
Joachim Baca remains an employee 2012 2013 Percentage of the Group and his remuneration terms have been adjusted to re ect Name and role Basic Salary Basic Salary Increase the fact he is no longer an Executive Director of the Company.
Jim Ryan Co-CEO 500,000 When determining the base salary of the Executive Directors the Norbert Teufelberger Co-CEO 500,000 500,000 0.0 Committee takes into consideration: Joachim Baca COO 446,000 Martin Weigold CFO 446,000 446,000 0.0 bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting 81 The levels of base salary for similar positions with comparable No contribution is made to a participants plan account unless the status, responsibility and skills in organisations of broadly similar performance criteria are met sizeand complexity: Each participant has a maximum annual contribution as a percentage The performance of the individual Executive Director: of salary, set out in the table below, which provides the following total cash opportunities for the Executive Directors The individual Executive Directors experience and responsibilities: and Company total cash Pay and conditions throughout the Company.
The Committee has Maximum annual including value of contribution deferred share element access to pay and conditions of other employees within the Group Name Role as a % of basic salary under the BBP 000s when determining remuneration for the Executive Directors and also Jim Ryan Co-CEO 300 1,500 considered the relationship between general changes to pay and Norbert Teufelberger Co-CEO 300 1,500 conditions within the Group as a whole.
The general increase in salaries across the Group was between 1.5 to 5%, with no increase for Joachim Baca COO 250 1,115 senior members of management.
Martin Weigold CFO 250 1,115 The Committee uses comparisons with caution to avoid increasing Top tier seniormanagers 100200 210690 remuneration levels without a corresponding improvement Total Cash is base salary plus targeted levels ofbonus.
It should be noted that under the BBP inperformance.
50% of the element earned is deferred in shares.
b. Bene ts Policy Lower Quartile of Comparator Groups The Remuneration Committee sets the performance criteria for each plan year.
The performance criteria are as follows: Bene ts only include private medical insurance, permanent health a minimum t hreshold level of Clean EBITDA for each financial year insurance and life assurance.
In line with the remuneration policy the isrequired for there to be any payment under the BBP: level of xed costs incurred as part of the executive remuneration package has been set at the minimum level.
Details of the monetary assuming the threshold is met a percentage of Clean EBITDA isused values attributable to these bene ts for 2012 are set out in the to create the bonus pool: emoluments table on page 89. a participants annual payment from the bonus pool is also subject to the satisfaction of additional individual performance objectives: c. Pensions where the forfeit threshold Clean EBITDA is not achieved 50% ofthe Policy Lower Quartile deferred balance in a participants plan account will be forfeited: and InApril 2012 the Group introduced a exible bene ts programme and participants are entitled to an annual payment of 50% of their plan this provides the option for employees to contribute to a companyaccount at theend of each plan year.
All balances aredeferred into provided pension, with a modest contribution by the employing entity shares.
On the fourth anniversary of the start of the plan period of1% of salary if the employee contributes at least 3%of their salary.
1January 2014 the remainder of the balance of participants plan d. Incentives accounts willbe paid in bwin.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the BBP is appropriate Bonus and long-term incentives and supports the remuneration policy for the following reasons: Policy Upper Quartile of Comparator Groups i the BBP provides exibility for the Remuneration Committee to set The incentive plans remain a core element of the remuneration policy in annual targets mitigating against some of the risks of the sector: incentivising and retaining executives and aligning their interests with ii the use of strategic key performance indicators as additional those of bwin.
conditions for payments to be made under the BBP allows a more holistic, exible and durable approach rather than focusing purely During 2012 the Executive Directors participated in the Bonus Banking ona relatively narrow set of financial metrics: Plan and Value Creation Plan, which were both introduced in 2011 in conjunction with the Merger and following extensive shareholder iii it ensures that any objectives based on integration and synergy consultation and a binding vote at the extraordinary general meeting savings from the Merger are underpinned by pro t performance ofthe Companys shareholders on 28 January 2011. before any bonus is earned: iv the minimum performance thresholds ensure that key executives are i Bonus Banking Plan BBP encouraged to focus on sustainable long-term performance: and The key features of the BBP are: v the deferral in shares and the real risk of forfeiture through claw-back In 2011, at the beginning of the plan period of three financial years, ensure a balance between the interests of shareholders and key participants were given a plan account to which contributions executives.
aremade Governance 82 Directors Remuneration Report 2012 Outcomes The following table sets out the Clean EBITDA targets for 2012 and their level of satisfaction: m Clean EBITDA Clean EBITDA Clean EBITDA Threshold on Target Maximum 2012 EBITDA Clean EBITDA 131.6m 164.5m 197.4m % of Clean EBITDA Clean EBITDA Maximum credited to the Bonus Pool 4.2% 6.8% 11.3% Clean EBITDA on Target % of Clean EBITDA Value of credited to the Contribution 2012 Outcomes Clean EBITDA Bonus Pool to the Bonus Pool Clean EBITDA Threshold 164.9m 6.8% 11.2m 0 50 100 150 200 In addition, the Remuneration Committee has reviewed the performance of the Executive Directors and senior executives against their personal objectives set for 2012.
The objectives for the COO, CFO and senior executives were set by the Co-CEOs, whilst the objectives for the Co-CEOs were set by the Chairman.
Allthese personal objectives were reviewed and approved by the Remuneration Committee at the beginning of 2012 before being rolled out.
The 2012 objectives included: Co-CEOs COO CFO Drive a performance culture Realise the forecast synergies and integrate the Drive a performance orientated culture by continuing bwinand PartyGaming businesses, particularly to oversee the Groups pro t and lossaccount and Deliver, adjust and refresh the corporate strategy with thegaming platform budget and providing leadership by providing focus on delivering strategies and tactical plans financial tracking to business leaders andcontrol and regarding social gaming, US re-entry, mobile gaming, Manage the substance and delivery of products and corrective action where necessary payments, disposal of redundant assets and European services to the highest quality to satisfy customer market diversi cation needs and thus maximising the value of players Support the strategic decision-making process anddeliver on tactical plans supporting the Deliver on the integration plan and the planned Oversee the optimisation of software development, businessstrategy 2012synergies IToperations and quality assurance Finalise the integration of the bwin and PartyGaming Position the Group for entry into all commercially Oversee the development and improvement of the financial systems viable regulated markets Groups payment processing offering Ensure forecast synergies are captured Develop a robust organisation that lives the corporate Continue to improve the customer service experience core values, has effective succession plans in place, Prepare the annual budget for the Group and provide Expand the digital channels through which customers where the Co-CEOs work together to deliver the monitoring information for ongoing follow-up reviews can play the Groups games strategy and provide appropriate and effective co-operation with the Board As a result of this review process, the Remuneration Committee has determined that the Executive Directors are entitled to the following contributions in respect of 2012: 2012 Contribution Deferred shares Value Cash Deferred Name and role percentage of annual salary from 2011 Contribution Total Value Payment for 2012 Shares Value 873,750 327,095 558,981 Norbert Teufelberger Co-CEO 174.8% 361,375 1,235,125 617,562 617,562 666,909 230,862 417,254 Joachim Baca COO 149.5% 255,056 921,965 460,983 460,983 639,034 231,348 404,882 Martin Weigold CFO 143.1% 255,593 894,627 447,314 447,314 For the value of the deferred 2011 contribution, the number of deferred shares has been divided by the average bwin.
party share price for the 30-day measurement period to 31 December 2012, which was 110.48 pence.
For the number of shares deferred after the 2012 contribution the total deferred value has been divided by the 110.48 pence average share price.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting 83 Details regarding Jim Ryans contributions and payments under the BBP The size of the VCP Pool is not capped are set out in the Outgoing Co-CEO section on page 84.
At each measurement date participants will bank shares in the formofa nil-cost option with a value equivalent to the excess value The following chart shows the actual Company contribution to the created using the prevailing share price.
50% of any banked shares planaccounts for the Executive Directors for 2012 compared to their willbecome exercisable at the end of year 3 2013, with the remainder maximum annual contribution: at the end of year 4 2014 The level of value created for shareholders will be determined by % reference to the appreciation in the Companys share price, the CEO amount of dividends paid and any sharebuy-backs absolute total shareholderreturn COO The shareholder value created at each measurement date will be calculated using the average share price over the 30 day period prior CFO to the relevant measurementdate The annual hurdle will be the higher of: 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 10% compounded annually from the initial price: and the average share price at the start of the relevant year or Maximum Contribution % of Salary previous measurement date if this is higher than at the start Actual Bonus Contribution % of Salary ofthe relevant year.
2013 maximum annual contribution and performance targets The initial price set in 2011 was 151.52 pence, so the target share price atwhich a VCP pool of value would start to be created for participants The Company 2013 maximum annual contribution for the remaining was 166.67 pence.
The average share price for the 30-day period to Executive Directors participating in the BBP is the same as the levels set 31December 2011 was 138.53p.
Consequently, the hurdle price which for 2012. needed to be reached by the end of December 2012 before any value For 2013 the Remuneration Committee has again set the minimum could begin to be attributed to the VCP was 183.34 pence, being a 10% threshold for a payment under the BBP.
This is not disclosed in this report increase over the 2011 hurdle price of 166.67 pence.
becausethe information is commercially sensitive, but will be disclosed The VCP ts with the Groups remuneration policy because: in the 2014 Directors Remuneration Report using the format set out above.
The personal objectives for the Executive Directors and senior it incentivises participants to focus on building shareholder value: executives have also been set and agreed by the key executives will only bene t from material increases in absolute .
total shareholder return ensuring a direct alignment between the bene ts received and value to shareholders: and ii Value Creation Plan VCP The key features of the VCP are: the annual banking of shares under the VCP results in an immediate shareholding which because of the restrictions on disposal provides Under the VCP, participants have been allocated a number of VCP points an ongoing exposure to the share price of the Company, therefore from a total pot and the Executive Directors have received thefollowing: encouraging decisions maintaining and enhancing shareholder value Number of The average share price for the 30-day period to 31 December 2012 Name VCP Points % of VCP Pool was110.48 pence.
The share price hadto reach a minimum of 183.34 Jim Ryan 1,000,000 10 pence before a VCP pool of value was created for participants and Norbert Teufelberger 1,000,000 10 therefore there are no awards to be granted under the VCP in respect of2012.
Joachim Baca 1,000,000 10 Martin Weigold 1,000,000 10 The price at which a VCP pool will begin to be created in respect of 2013 isif the average share price for the 30-day period to 31 December 2013 Top-tier senior manager 200,000 400,000 2-4 is201.67 pence, being a 10% increase over the 2012 hurdle rate.
These VCP points have no value on grant but give the participants theopportunity, during the three-year performance period, to share in Share price on measurement date is 138.53 pence 4% of the total value created for shareholders in excess of an annual 10% p. a. hurdle of 10% share price growth from the initial share price at annual Year 3 10% p. a. measurement points Year 2 Threshold Year 1 Threshold Price The value to each participant will be set by reference to the number Threshold Price 201.67 pence ofVCP points held in proportion to the total VCP points allocated and 151.52 Price 183.34 pence will be delivered in shares pence 166.67 pence Year 1 2011 Year 2 2012 Year 3 2013 Governance 84 Directors Remuneration Report Total remuneration Policy median to upper quartile of comparator groups The Remuneration Committees policy is to set the potential total remuneration at the median to upper quartile of the comparator groups.
The level oftotal remuneration actually received will be dependent on the level of bonus earned under the BBP and the shares awarded under the VCP.
The table below shows for each of the Executive Directors the following information: the total remuneration payable under the Companys remuneration policy against the comparators.
Total remuneration consists of: base salary on target bonus fair value of long-term incentives pension contributions the actual total remuneration provided by the Company for 2012 Average of Comparators Company Company Upper Quartile Policy Level Median 2012 Actual Name 000s 000s 000s 000s Norbert Teufelberger Co-CEO 2,101 1,944 3,088 1,130 Joachim Baca COO 1,816 1,024 1,457 919 Martin Weigold CFO 1,816 858 1,247 905 Outgoing Co-CEO No payment has been paid to Jim Ryan under the Value Creation Plan.
On 5 December 2012 the Company announced that Jim Ryan would be In 2013, following Jim Ryans departure from the Company, the Company retiring as Co-CEO of the Company with effect from 15 January 2013, engaged Jim Ryan as a consultant to provide advisory services and having served with the Company for 4.5 years as the CEO of PartyGaming support in respect of the Groups strategy to launch a US licensed online Plc and subsequently as Co-CEO of bwin.
gaming business when this market opens up on a federal and or state In accordance with the terms of his service agreement Jim Ryan received bystate basis.
The engagement of Jim Ryans services for this important a payment in lieu of notice as follows: role is in the best interests of shareholders for the following reasons: 500,000 in respect of his annual salary His extensive knowledge and experience of the online gaming industry built up over 12 years with five different businesses, during 17,141 in respect of his bene ts for the notice period which time he has managed five different poker networks.
750,000 in respect of an on target annual bonus payment for 2013 He is known to and has a good working relationship with bwin.
partys Under the terms of the settlement and waiver agreement entered US partners.
intowith Jim Ryan, he was treated as a good leaver from the BBP in He has a network of gaming and technology contacts in the US.
December 2012 and received his earned contributions for 2011 and 2012.
Consequently, Jim Ryan received a 2012 contribution of 871,624 and H is extensive knowledge of the US regulatory landscape 359,848 in respect of the 327,095 bwin.
party shares deferred from his 2011 BBP contribution 327,095 shares divided by 110.01 pence being the He is already going through the Nevada probity process.
average share price for the period 1 December to 21 December 2012.
Under the terms of the consultancy agreement Jim Ryan is entitled to These payments were made in cash.
Under the rules of the BBP, Jim Ryan afee of 25,000 for the term of the contract.
The consultancy services was not entitled to participate in this plan for 2013.
Jim Ryan was entitled will be provided until 31 December 2013. under the terms of his service agreement, as amended at the time of the Merger, to mirror the terms of the newly appointed Co-CEOs and COOs service agreement, to an on target cash bonus payment in respect of 2013, payable as part of his payment in lieu of notice.
Subsequent to the 2012 year end, the Remuneration Committee has agreed, at no cost to the Company, the removal of the on target cash bonus payment clause from the service agreements of all the remaining executives Norbert Teufelberger, Martin Weigold and Joachim Baca.
This type of clause will not be included in any future service agreements.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting 85 Other share plans inthis plan and the majority of awards were made in the period 2005 to2007.
No awards have been made under this plan since 2010 and no In addition to the above plans, the Company also operates the following awards will be granted in thefuture.
plans some of which the Directors do or may participate in: PartyGaming Plc Performance Share Plan legacy pre-Merger plan bwin.
party Global Share Plan Current Plan Jim Ryan, Martin Weigold and former PartyGaming senior management All bwin.
party employees including Executive Directors team only Under the Global Share Plan launched in 2011 following the Merger, Under this plan launched in 2007, awards of restricted stock were participants are able to purchase a maximum of 1,500 worth of bwin.
madeand vested subject to the Companys total shareholder return party shares annually.
Subject to retaining these purchased shares for performance over a three-year period versus that of a peer group.
three years and continued employment, the Company can provide a Onlythe Executive Directors of PartyGaming and the senior matching share for each employee share purchased.
Participants, management team participated in this plan.
Details of how this legacy excluding the Executive Directors, may also be awarded a nil-cost option plan operated were set out in the 2010 Remuneration Report and all no cost on grant and nostrike price or restricted bwin.
party shares, up outstanding awards had their performance measured to 28 January to a value of 25,000 per annum Executive Directors can only be granted 2011, when shareholders approved the Merger.
The vesting schedule for an award up to3,000 invalue per annum if funded by newly allotted all outstanding awards did not change.
All awards have either vested or Shares.
These discretionary free share awards generally do not have any lapsed under this plan.
No awards have been made under this plan since performance conditions and vest over a three-year period.
Generally 2010 and no awards will be granted in the future.
party shares new shares are used to satisfy free share awards, whilst shares are have been issued tosatisfy vested awards.
purchased in the market in respect of the purchased share and matchingshare programme.
party Rollover Option plan legacy pre-Merger plan bwin.
party Bonus & Shares Plan Current Plan Norbert Teufelberger, Joachim Baca, former bwin non-executive directors and former bwin employees only bwin.
party mid to senior management excluding those in the VCP andBBP The Company introduced the bwin.
party Rollover Option Plan ROP at the time of the Merger.
The purpose of this plan was to effect the grant of The Bonus & Shares Plan, launched in 2011 after the completion of the rollover options over bwin.
party shares to replace unexercised options Merger duplicates in many respects the BBP.
It uses the same Clean granted under the two bwin fair market value option plans, some of EBITDA target set for the BBP and, in determining a participants which were subject to performance conditions.
On the day the Merger contribution, performance against individual objectives set at the took effect the bwin options over bwin shares were rolled over into beginning of the year are considered.
As with the BBP, bonuses are paid equivalent options under the ROP over bwin.
party shares on in the form of a cash payment and deferred shares awarded as nil-cost termswhich re ected the same exchange ratioas applied to bwin share options or restricted stock, but unlike the BBP there is no shareholders 12.23 bwin.
party shares for each bwin share.
The shares forfeiture mechanism for underperformance in future years.
Deferred continue to vest on the same vesting timetable as the original shares vest over a three-year period.
The maximum annual contribution bwinoptions.
that can be earned under this plan is 150% of basic salary.
The deferred shares are funded through the allotment of new shares.
party shares will be issued to satisfy exercised ROP awards, however, as explained in the Merger prospectus and circular, these bwin.
PartyGaming Plc Share Option Plan legacy pre-Merger plan party shares will not count towards the Companys 10% dilution limit.
Jim Ryan, Martin Weigold and former PartyGaming employees and consultants only Details of the awards under the ROP granted to Norbert Teufelberger, Joachim Baca, Per Afrell, Manfred Bodner, Helmut Kern and Georg Riedl Under this plan launched in 2005, option awards have been awarded are contained in the table on page 86.
Whilst the UK Corporate with no cost on grant or exercise and generally without any performance Governance Code recommends against granting options to Nonconditions.
The shares used to fund exercised awards under this plan Executive Directors, Per Afrell, Manfred Bodner, Helmut Kern and Georg come solely from the Employee Trust, no new shares are allotted to Riedl received their original bwin options under a different corporate satisfy awards and the majority of shares used by the Employee Trust to governance regime Austrian and the ROP awards simply convert the satisfy exercised awards were donated by the founder shareholders of value of these original awards into bwin.
No further share PartyGaming in 2005 and 2006.
Whilst the Remuneration Committee at awards will be made under the ROP.
the time these options were granted recognised the recommendation inthe Combined Code on Corporate Governance predecessor to the UKCorporate Governance Code not to award Executive Directors long-term incentive awards without performance conditions or to awardoptions at a discount, the Remuneration Committee deemed itnecessary at the time to make these awards in order to attract and retain the services of the recipients.
The awards generally vest over a period of five years.
Other employees of the Group have participated Governance 86 Directors Remuneration Report PartyGaming All-Employee Option Plan legacy pre-Merger plan of new shares.
No new awards have been granted since 2010 and no future awards will be granted under this plan.
All former PartyGaming employees except Executive Directors Under this plan launched in 2007, all employees excluding the Executive Summary of the long-term incentive plans Directors were eligible to receive fair market options.
These awards The information contained in this table has been audited by BDOLLP vested over three years and were not subject to any performance and BDO Limited.
party shares, in respect of which the final instalment of 68,182 shares vested on 31 March 2012.
Dilution summary Issued share capital as at 28 February 2013 813,730,858 10% of issued share capital 81,373,085 5% of issued share capital 40,686,542 No more than 10% of issued share capital can be committed to the Global Share Plan, BBP, VCP, Bonus & Shares Plan and PartyGaming Plc All-Employee Option Plan.
Within the above limit, no more than 5% of the issued share capital can be New issue limits committed to BBP, VCP and Bonus & Shares Plan.
Total number of shares committed to the Global Share Plan, Bonus & Shares Plan andAll-Employee Option Plan 17,724,698 To date no share awards have been made under the BBP or VCP.
As described above, shares allotted in respect of the bwin.
party Rollover Option Plan 23,265,909 bwin.
party shares as at 28 February 2013, which addresses the legacy bwin.
party options awarded prior to the Merger, do not count towards the Companys 10% dilution limit.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting 87 Option re-incentivisation and dilution reduction programme programme the vesting timetable was lengthened for replacement free shares awarded under the Global Share Plan.
Market value options over a During 2012, as part of a re-incentivisation exercise for employees in total of 21,538,025 bwin.
party shares awarded under the PartyGaming theGroup other than Directors, participants in the PartyGaming Plc Plc All-Employee Option Plan and bwin.
party Rollover Option Plan were All-Employee Option Plan and bwin.
party Rollover Option Plan were exchanged for awards under the Global Share Plan over a total of offered a one-off opportunity to exchange outstanding fair market 4,770,934 bwin.
The Remuneration Committee decided it valueoptions for free shares awarded under the Global Share Plan.
The was appropriate to offer this one-off exchange, because many of the exchange formula was calculated on an equivalent black-scholes value outstanding fair market value options offered no material retention or basis, hence there was no incremental fair value ceded to participants incentivisation bene ts.
In addition, the exchange also greatly reduced and no additional share-based payment charge to recognise in relation the dilutive impact of the Companys share plans.
As part of the terms of the exchange Service agreements Notice Periods Compensation Date of provisions for early Name appointment Nature of contract From bwin.
party From Director termination Joachim Baca 31.03.11 Rolling 12 months 12 months None Jim Ryan 30.06.08 Rolling 12 months 12 months None Norbert Teufelberger 31.03.11 Rolling See below See below See below Martin Weigold 04.04.05 Rolling 12 months 12 months None If Norbert Teufelbergers employment is terminated prior to 31 March workto a place other than Gibraltar by giving three months notice to 2014 by the Company or by Norbert Teufelberger in certain prescribed the Company in writing.
The Company will then be required to pay the circumstances under the Regulatory Process Agreement or on a change relevant Executive Director a payment equal to the amount he would ofcontrol, in each case where there are no grounds for summary have received had his employment been terminated in accordance with termination by the Company, the Company will offer to engage him the payment in lieu provision in his service agreement.
asaconsultant until 31 March 2014 on terms which are in respect of The service agreements are governed by English law and contain remuneration including incentive arrangements no less favourable non-compete provisions which apply during employment and for when taken as a whole than the terms of his employment arrangements 12months following termination.
would have been had they continued until 31 March 2014.
Non-Executive Directors No compensation will be payable upon expiry of the term on the thirdanniversary of his appointment date unless the period of the The fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman consultancy agreement is less than 12 months, in which case Norbert ofthe Board, are determined by the Board on recommendation from Teufelberger will receive an additional payment on the expiry of the theExecutive Directors.
The Chairmans fee is determined by the consultancy agreement equal to the amount if any by which the Remuneration Committee.
Fees are determined by reference to market aggregate of any termination payments under the service agreement information and the particular risks attaching to online gaming.
The fees and payments under the consultancy agreement is less than the levels have not changed since 2011. payment in lieu of notice which Norbert Teufelberger would have Position Annual fee received under the service agreement if the Company had chosen toexercise its right to terminate the service agreement by making a Chairman of the Board 350,000 payment in lieu of notice.
If Norbert Teufelberger accepts the Companys Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director 250,000 offer, he will have no right to claim compensation in respect of the Chairman of the Integration Committee 465,000 termination ofhis contract of employment under the provisions Independent Non-Executive Director 130,000 described above.
Non-Executive Director 100,000 If a change of control of the Company as fide ned in each service Additional fee for chairing the Audit Committee 20,000 agreement takes place, each of the Executive Directors may, in Additional fee for chairing the Ethics Committee 20,000 the12months following the change of control, terminate his employment ifthe Company makes a material adverse change to This fee includes chairing the Nominations Committee This fee includes chairing the Remuneration Committee histitle, responsibilities or status or changes his principal place of Governance 88 Directors Remuneration Report The Chairman of the Integration Committee is a temporary appointment 2012 he would receive a total contribution of 694,884 equivalent to for a three-year period to 31 March 2014 and is a position held by 150% of his annual fee.
This amount added to the value of his 2011 Manfred Bodner.
The role is important in overseeing that management deferred contribution of 278,133 251,750 deferred shares multiplied by implements an effective integration of the bwin and PartyGaming 110.48 pence, being the average share price for the 30-day measurement businesses and recognises many merging businesses fail to deliver the period to 31 December 2012, results in a total contribution of 973,017. synergy savings and other bene ts from a consolidation.
In recognition Under the terms of the plan half of this amount 486,509 is paid out in of the importance and special duties of the role, the Chairman of the cash and the other half is rolled into 440,359 deferred bwin.
party shares Integration Committee receives a higher fee than a Non-Executive 486,509 divided by 110.48 pence, being the average share price for the Director performing normal duties.
As part of the Chairman of the Integration Committees remuneration With the exception of the Chairman of the Integration Committee, the package, healso participates in the Value Creation Plan and Bonus Non-Executive Directors cannot participate in the Value Creation Plan Banking Plan.
Under the Value Creation Plan, Manfred Bodner has been and Bonus Banking Plan or any other incentive arrangements operated awarded 1,000,000 VCP points, representing an entitlement to 10% of by the Company.
As disclosed earlier in this report, no value was Each of the Non-Executive Directors has been appointed under a letter created under the Value Creation Plan in respect of 2012.
With the exception of the Chairman of Integration Bonus Banking Plan, Manfred Bodner is entitled to a maximum annual Committee, these agreements do not provide for a xed term of contribution of 300% of his annual fee equivalent 1,395,000.
The service, but each Director stands for re-appointment by shareholders mechanics of the Bonus Banking Plan have been described earlier in this each year and the Nominations Committee and Board reviews matters report and Manfred Bodner is subject to the same Clean EBITDA target of independence, commitment and performance beforerecommending and his personal objectives relate to the achievement of synergy cost aDirector for re-appointment.
The Board resolved that in respect of his performance in Notice Periods Dates of letters of Compensation provisions for Name appointment Nature of contract From bwin.
party From Director early termination Simon Duffy 21.10.10 Rolling 6 months 6 months None Per Afrell 16.12.10 Rolling 3 months 3 months None Geoff Baldwin 14.07.11 Rolling 3 months 3 months None Manfred Bodner 24.12.10 Rolling See below See below See below Tim Bristow 01.05.07 Rolling 3 months 3 months None Helmut Kern 16.12.10 Rolling 3 months 3 months None Lewis Moonie 16.12.10 Rolling 3 months 3 months None Rod Perry 16.12.10 Rolling 3 months 3 months None Georg Riedl 16.12.10 Rolling 3 months 3 months None If the appointment of Manfred Bodner is terminated prior to 31 March the Companys offer, he will have no right to claim compensation in 2014 by the Company, by him not being re-elected by the shareholders respect of the termination of his appointment under the provisions ina general meeting, or by Manfred Bodner in certain prescribed described above.
circumstances under the Regulatory Process Agreement or on a change Upon termination of the appointment of Manfred Bodner except of control, in each case where there are no grounds for summary whereterminated summarily or where the appointment is terminated termination of the appointment by the Company, the Company will offer incircumstances where the Company is required to offer him a to engage him as a consultant until 31 March 2014 on terms which are no consultancy agreement as described above, the Company will offer less favourable in terms of fees including incentive arrangements than him a new appointment letter on its standard terms then applicable the terms of his letter of appointment would have been had it continued toNon-Executive Directors.
Notice of termination of his current letter until the third anniversary of his original appointment date.
ofappointment has been served by the Company on Manfred Bodner No compensation will be payable upon expiry of the term on 31 March and the current terms of appointment will expire on 31 March 2014.
2014 unless the period of the consultancy agreement is less than 12 If a change of control of the Company takes place, Manfred Bodner months, in which case Manfred Bodner will receive an additional may, in the 12 months following the change of control, terminate his payment on the expiry of the consultancy agreement equal to the appointment if the Company makes a material adverse change to his amount if any by which the aggregate of any termination payments title, responsibilities or status or changes his principal place of work under the appointment letter and payments under the consultancy toaplace other than Gibraltar by giving three months notice to the agreement is less than the payment in lieu of notice which Manfred Company in writing.
The Company will then be required to pay him Bodner would have received under the appointment letter if the apayment equal to the amount he would have received had his Company had chosen to exercise its right to terminate the appointment appointment been terminated in accordance with the payment letter by making a payment in lieu of notice.
If Manfred Bodner accepts inlieuprovision in his letter of appointment.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting 89 External appointments Total emoluments overview Executive Directors are required to seek the consent of the Board before The information contained in this table has been audited by BDO LLP accepting external appointments as non-executive directors of other and BDO Limited.
None of the Executive Directors serving in 2012 was or is a director of a company outside the Group for which they or the Company receives or received afee during the year to 31 December 2012.
The basic salary includes a payment of 615,883 in respect of his payment in lieu of notice.
In respect of the Bonus Banking Plan cash only Cash Bonus, 1,516,886 is in respect of his earned 2012 and deferred 2011 contributions and 923,825 in respect of his payment in lieu of notice on target annual bonus payment for 2013.
Details of his remuneration terms are set out on page 84.
2 Simon Duffy, Joachim Baca, Norbert Teufelberger, Per Afrell, Geoff Baldwin, Manfred Bodner, Helmut Kern and Georg Riedl were all appointed Directors part way through 2011.
